DEcument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rome Nho 6118-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
May 22, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This dwuu_ bh  a rnb- i dutu io mad my be _  by rwip& on  I lb. peane of
thir .1kw dUdIL f.       a m not wIu be dIsclseMd wibo. W ol       k *uhwlzau.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =        Cruzeiro (Cr$)/Cruzado (Cz$). 1/
US$1.00                =        Cr$8,891 2/
Cr$1                   =        US$0.000112
Cr$1 million                    US$112
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   =    January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program         April 1 to March 31
Project                                =    April 1 to March 31
J  New currency established on February 28, 1986 at the rate of
Cz$l=Cr$1,000
2/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1985)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABB1!9VIATIONS
CAGEP           Companhia Agricola de Pernambuco
(State Warehouse Company of Pernambuco)
CD              Community Development
CEASA           Central de Abastecimento de Pernambuco
(Central Marketing Organization of Pernambuco)
CISAGRO         Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Pernambuco
(State Agricultural Development Company)
COBAL           Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CPATSA          Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
EMATER-PE       Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
de Pernambuco
(Pernambuco State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company)
EMBRAPA         Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
IC              Comissao lnterministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
IPA             Instituto de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Agricultural Research Institute)
LDP             Local Development Project
MINTER          Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of The Interior)
NRDP            Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE    Programs de Desenvolvimento de  Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of
the Northeast)
RDC             Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAPE            Secretar!.a de Agricultura de Pernambuco
(State Secrettriat of Agriculture)
This document has a rstrcted distribution and mya be wed by recipients only in the performance
of tir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



SEPLAN          Secretaria de Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SIMA            Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SRDC            Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE          Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU              Technical Unit of the State's Secretariat of Planning



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................I............... 
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................. .... ..... .......    3
Agriculture in the National Economy                                 3
The Rural Northeast ............3 .....................*..    3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast ...    4
Experience with Past Bank Lending              .....                4
The State of Pernambuco            ...       .99.... ...........    5
III.  THE PROJECT                 ....................                    6
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement           ...             6
Priority Areas                       ....                           6
Project Objectives and Description  ....                            7
Water Resource Development                                    7
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production               7
Agricultural Extension                                        7
Rural Credit 7 .......7
Marketing Services                                            8
Support to Small Rural Communities                            8
Project Administration and Training          .....            8
Land Tenure Improvement                                             9
Project Organization and Implementation..................           9
Federal and Regional Levels                                   9
State and Local Levels                                        9
Annual Planning and Budgeting                                 9
Accounts and Auditing                                         9
Operating Agreements                                         10
Monitoring and Evaluation                                    10
Project Cost             .......   10
Financing Plan      ...............     10
On-lending Terms                ............... *                  11
Cost Recovery  ...............                                     12
Procurement ......**.........                                      12
Disbursements                  ...............  13
Project Benefits and Justification  ...**..., ..........   14
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes         ................   14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during November 1985. The mission comprised Messrs. M. Fairless
(Mission Leader), H. Floyd, D. Mitchnik (Bank); M. Hagerstrom, J. M.
Pliego-Gutierrez and M. Gil (Consultants).



table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Economic Abalys-s ............................               14
Project Risks ............   ,............................        14
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........     15
Annex 1 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........      .........................  17
Table 1.1  State Structure of Land Holdings.............,    24
Table 1.2  Evolution of State Agricultural Production...     25
Table 1.3 Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary
Distributior .  .......................................  04  26
Table 1.4 List of Municipalities in the Project Area...       27
Table 1.5  Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities....     29
Table 1.6  Summary Account by Project Component    ........    30
Table 1.7  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements  ....    31
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds         .................    32
Annex 2 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT        ....................    33
Table 2.1  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies.      35
Chart 1   Project Coordination and Management Chart....      36
Chart 2    Implementation Schedule .....    ................  37
Annex 3 - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .........     ...............    38
Table 3.1  Total Annual Area and Production of Major
Crops and Livestock Without Project and at
Full Development .........     ...................    40
Table 3.2  Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Financial and Economic Analysis......*     41
Table 3.3  Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
without Project and at Full Development .....    42
Table 3.4  Project Economic Analysis....................     43
Table 3.5  Principal Prices Used for Financial and
Economic Analysis ..     ............. .          44
Table 3.6  Project Sensitivity Analysis ................     45
Annex 4 - DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE       ................    46
Maps:
IBRD 18686 - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 19577 - Priority Areas
IBRD 19578 - Agricultural Potential Defined by Dependable
Rainfall



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil.
Execfiting
Agency:        A Technical Unit (T. U.) of Pernambuco's Secretariat of
Planning for coordination of all State and Federal agencies
participating in the Pernambuco Rural Development Plan.
Amount:        US$92.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Aepayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries: Some 73,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 118 municipalities of the State of Pernambuco
would directly benefit from the project. A larger number of
families would also benefit from the water supply, community
development, fisheries and marketing components.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is the fifth in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP)
designed to increase the efficiency and impact of rural
development efforts. The project objectives are to: (a)
increase agricultural production and productivity in the
State of Pernambuco; (b) generate employment opportunities
for low-income farm families; (c) increase Pernambuco's
institutional capacity to provide efficient agricultural
services for small farmers; and (d) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to
decrease small farmer vulnerability to recurring droughts.
It would support water resource development for both
agricultural and domestic use, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, investment credit, marketing
services, funding for community subprojects and project
administration and training.
Risks:          Project risks include: (a) possible inefficient delivery of
project services; (b) lack of sufficient inter-institutional
cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and (e) recurring
drought conditions. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks.



-2 
Estimated Costs;
Local      Foreign       Total
-----   US$ Millions   --
A.  Water Resource Development               14.7        3.0         17.7
B.  Agricultural Research                    7.2         0.1          7.3
C.  Agricultural Extension                  36.5         0.9         37.4
D.  Rural Investment Credit                 42.2         7.4         49.6
E.  Marketing Services                       4.4         0.8          5.2
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities    23.3           3.3         26.6
G.  Project Administration and Training   16.1           0.8         16.9
Total Baseline Costs                           144.4       16.3        160.7
Physical Contingencies                           1.3        0.4          1.7
Price Contingencies                             25.0        1.0         26.0
Total Project Cost                             170.7       17.7        188.4 1/
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
- -- -US$ Millions --
Government                                     96.4          -          96.4
IBRD                                           74.3        17.7         92.0
TOTAL                                          170.7       17.7        188.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1987 2/   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
* -   …____---_ - USS  Millions --------…-------
Annual          9.0      12.0   14.8   16.4   16.2   12.4    7.8        2.5    0.9
Cumulative     9.0       21.0   35.8   52.2   68.4   80.8   88.6    91.1   92.0
Rate of Return: 13%
Map No. IBRD 18686
IBRD 19577
IBRD 19578
1/  Including about US$5.7 million of local taxes.
2/ including initial deposit of US$4.0 million into the Special Account.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of exports
and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active population
and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%, and 387%,
respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s, output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or high
levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large
commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in
some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize,
wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, tbe rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily on
soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar. Of total agricultural
exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were accounted for by these five
crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando do Noronha with a
total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's total area). The
Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since the late 1800s.
2.05      Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and limited
employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty and
underemplovment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the region,
partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983). In 1980, the
Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of the country's total),
growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density of 22.5 inhabitants per km2.
Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50% of the work force is engaged
in agriculture. Land ownership is highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of
all farms) occupy less than 6% of the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all
farms) occupy more than 40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In
1980, over 80% of the rural population earned less than the minimum salary (about
US$675 annually, or 35% of the national average).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal, cassava,
sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national production. The zona



-4-
da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of the regional
population and a major proportion of industry and plantation agriculture. The
agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, is dominated by
mixed farming, as well as the raising of cattle. The sparsely populated semi-arid
sertao, is the largest of the subregio-s and the most vulnerable to periodic
droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought reliet works, emergency programs and incentives for export
crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development and the need for improved
regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was originally responsible for
coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures and powerful fiscal
and credit incentives to attract new private investment. The initiative for
regional policy formulation was transferred to various Federal agencies in the
1970s with SUDENE continuing to play an important role in the coordination of
federally-funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first was
based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It included the
Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the
Special i4ogram of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid Region of the
Northeast, and the Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar
Growing Zones. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the effects of
droughts. It included several parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use
Program, the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program and the Drought Emergency Relief
Program, as well as large federal public irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new initiative is
being implemented through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as land
tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and integrated rural development.
The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a
comprehensive regional policy framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines,
multi-year state rural iavestment plans and the integration of all rural special
programs under unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 35 loans, totaling US$2,248.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5
million, under the Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2 million, for
agroindustries; two, for US$60.5 million, for livestock; one for US$18.2 million
for grain storage; two, for US$100 million for agricultural research; two for
US$255 million for agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure
improvement; and 22, totalling US$862.2 million, for various settlement,
irrigation and rural development projects in the Northeast 3/, in Minas Gerais,
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Pro rams for the
Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



and in the North and Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto
Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised settler
incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental
protection, community organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. The
Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan
1153-BR) showed that, despite implementation delays due to design changes and
social tension in the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased oeyond original
estimates, and small farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence
to commercial agriculture.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural development
projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved from 1976 to 1983,
six of the projects are still being executed and the other four have been
substantially completed. Implementation has im?roved over the years, especially
in project planning and agency coordination. All projects have experienced
implementation and disbursement delays mainly because of the unusually severe
1979-83 drought, de_ays in providing local f'inds, limited execution capacity for
carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and initial lags in the generation
of drought-resistant technology for small farmers. These problems were addressed
during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Pernambuco
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  Pernambuco has 98,300 km2 ar4 has only
one major river, the Sao Francisco River. Pernambuco's zona da mata covers 10% of
the State, has an abundant rainfall (up to 2,000 mm per year), fertile soils, and
is the main cultivated region. The agreste covers 20% of the State, and rainfall
ranges from 650 to 900 mm per year with a dry period of up to seven months. The
sertao covers 70% of the State, rainfall is below 500 mm, and irregular dry
periods can last up to ten months.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  Pernambuco's 6.1 million inhabitants
generated a GDP per capita of US$1,030 (1980), relatively high for the Northeast.
Recife, the capital, has become a marketing and industrial hub for the entire
region; however, agriculture only produces 12% of the State's GDP. About 85% of
the agricultural work force earns less than the minimum salary. Living conditions
for most of the population are still poor: infant mortality is high (100
deaths/1,000 live births) and only 40% of the population has access to treated
water and less than 10% to sewage facilities.
2.14      Land Tenure and Productior,.  Three-quarters of the farms are small-scale
(less than 100 ha) and occupy only 11% of the State, 4% of the farms (those over
100 ha) occupy about 58% of the area. Over half of the small-scale farmers are
located in the agreste, and almost two-thirds of them are landowners. Food crop
production depends on these farmers; however, output is insufficient except for
cassava. Large-scale farms irn the zona da mata mostly grow sugarcane.
Agricultural land use in the sertao is relegated to extensive grazing.
2.15      Agricultural Services.  A Technical Unit (T. U.) within the State
Secretariat of Planning vwas created to administer and coordinate the State's rural
development programs. Agricultural research is the responsibility of the
reputable State Institute for Agricultural Research (IPA). Agricultural extension
is provided by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-PE) through a network of regional and local offices. Agricultural credit



-6 -
is provided through an adequate branch network of four major banks: the Bank of
Brazil, the Bank of Northeast Brazil, the National Bank for Cooperative Credit and
the State Bank of Pernambuco. Water resource development, still at an incipient
stage, is mostly done by the State Agricultural Development Company (CISAGRO) as
are land cadastral activities. Public marketing is handled by the Central
Marketing Organization of Pernambuco (CEASA-PE).
2.16      Rural Development.  The State's self-financed rural development project,
TERRA NOSSA, concentratee on land reform. The Bank has financed the Pernambuco
Rural Development (Agreste Setentrional) Project with a loan of USS40 million
(Loan 1728-BR) signed in June 1979. Experience with the Bank-financed project is
consistent with that of other POLONORDESTE projects (para. 2.11). Most components
of the Pernambuco project have progressed satisfactorily, with slow disbursements
due mostly to the lack of counterpart funds. The closing date has been extended
one year to December 31, 1986, when the area would be incorporated into the
proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support poverty
alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of Brazil.
Ccmmon problems detected in the ongoing projects (paras. 2.11 and 2.16),
skewed pattern of land ownership and the experience gained by SUDENE and state
institutions, convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified regional
and sectoral approach was needed.
3.02      In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE ir.
preparing the NRDP. In April 1985, as part of the Program the Bank approved the
Northeast Rural Development I and II Pro4ects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the
States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do 14orte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe
Rural Development Plan, the first project established the structure and operating
procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to support all
ten Northeast state rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank approved the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) that finances land
cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states. Projects for the States of
Bahia and Piaui are expected to be submitted for Board approval shortly. Projects
for the States of Maranhao and Ceara have already been appraised, and the three
remaining projects for the States of Alagoas, Paraiba and Minas Gerais are being
prepared for Bank appraisal.
3.03      Preparation of the Pernambuco project was carried out by the T. U.
(para. 3.12) with assistance from SUDENE, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
and the Bank. The project was appraised by the Bank in November 1985, and
negotiations took place in May, 1986. The Brazilian delegation was led by Mrs.
Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of Planning.
Priority Areas
3.04      Based on the relative concentration of small farmers and on the



existence of an underdeveloped agricultural potential the T. U. selected 118 of
Pernambuco's 167 municipalities as priority areas for development.  Emphasis was
put on the agreste region (Map IBRD 19577).
Project Objectives and Description
3.05      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) increase
agricultural production and productivity in the State; (b) generate employment
opportunities for low-income farm families; (c) increase Pernambuco's capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to its small farmers; and (d) promote
water resource development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease
small farmer vulnerability to recurring drought. The project would benefit an
estimated 73,000 low-income farm families. The project components are described
below and are expanded upon in Annex 1.
3.06      Water Resource Development.  This component would include: (a)
construction of two medium-sized state-managed irrigation schemes totalling 550 ha
of irrigated land, benefiting 275 families, and of 17 small irrigation schemes
totalling 1,620 ha, benefiting about 810 farm families; (b) studies to support the
development of the State's irrigation plan and the preparation of irrigation
projects for implementation under a subsequent stage of the NRDP; (c) a program of
technical assistance to strengthen the implementing capacity of state irrigation
agencies; (d) construction of 140 simple water supply systems and rehabilitation
of 73 systems benefiting a total of 57,000 people in small rural communities; and
(e) stocking of 14 State-owned lakes with local fish species and monitoring
fishing activities.   In addition, 6,000 ha of private irrigation would be
financed under the rural investment credit component. During negotiations, the
State provided assurances that, within six months of loan signature, It would
define with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the
internal structures of the Irrigation Division in the State Secretariat of
Agriculture and of CISAGRO's irrigation unit; (ii) staffing requirements and staff
profiles for those agencies; and (iii) their operational linkages; and put the
preceeding organizational improvements into effect (para. 4.03).
3.07      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.  Reseirch would be
directed towards simple technology to make farming systems more productive and
resistant to possible drougbt and would include: (a) four agroecological and
natural resource studies to assist in future research planning; (b) 730 short- and
medium-term applied research trials at experiment stations to improve production
technology; (c) 12 farm-level observation units to test and adapt integrated farm
production technology; (d) annual basic seed production on about 100 ha; and (e)
production and distribution of 120 improved dairy cattle.
3.08      Agricultural Extension.  This component would include:  (a) the
establishment and equipping of five local offices; (b) establishment of about 470
demonstration plots; (c) payment of salaries and recurrent costs for about 400
agricultural and social extension agents, about 50 subject-matter specialists and
supervisory personnel and about 190 administrative staff; and (d) production of
about 10 million tree seedlings.
3.09      Rural Credit.  The project would finance medium- and long-term credit
for on-farm investments for 24,000 farmers (33% of the 73,000 direct
beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term production credit to be
financed by the participating banks (para. 2.15). Farmers would contribute with
their labor to on-farm investments but, due to limited savings after the drought,
financing would cover up to 100% of goods required for on-farm investment costs



- 8 -
with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace period of
three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha, and
automobiles would not be eligible. Financi'- would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in ne Central Bank's Manual for Rural
Credit for individual farmers, farmer associations and cooperatives (provided 70%
of their members are small farmers who would directly benefit from the investment)
(see paras. 3.22 and 3.23). Short-term production credit (custeio) would be
provided on a priority basis to project beneficiaries by participating banks.
3.10      Marketing Services.  The marketing component is designed to increase
farmers' knowledge of marketing, prcduct grading and prices, improve the timely
provision of agricultural inputs, and help the State establish a pilot food
wholesaling service in rural areas. To achieve this, the project would include:
(a) expansion of the State-run marketing information service (SIMA); (b) purchase
of a mobile classification and grading unit for veg-tables, fruit and legume
crops; (c) construction of a municipal market; (d) establishment of a food
wholesale service for private retailers by the Federal Food Company (COBAL),
including the expansion of three rural service centers; and (e) construction of
three warehouses for storage of agricultural production.
3.11      Support to Small Rural Communities.  This component would facilitate
small-farmer participation in the project and create job opportunities.  The
component would include: (a) creation of a community development (CD) fund of
about US$21.4 million to make grants for local subprojects; (b) purchase of
vehicles and equipment; and (c) hiring and training of 42 community development
agents. EMATER-PE would be responsible for the implementation of the component
and the T. U. for administering the CD fund. Farmers' groups would identify, plan
and execute subprojects that would encompass economic activities or community
infrastructure and would include training for community leaders. Written
proposals detailing objectives, benefits, implementation methodology, and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund would
be established and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of the
agreement between the T. U. and the groups or municipalities (in the case of
unincorporated groups); and (c) not later than December 31, 1988, the Bank and the
T. U. would review the performance of the grants for economic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of further funding of subprojects on a loan basis
(para. 4.03 (b)).
3.12      Project Administration and Training.  The T. U. has been designated to
administer, coordinate, and integrate all federally-funded rural programs under
the project. All project-related training would be centrally coordinated by the
T. U.. The project would strengthen the T. UT's administrative capabilities by
financing salaries of 60 higher level and related support staff, travel expenses,
office equipment, training and other operating costs. The current administrative
organization for the ongoing project (para. 2.16) would be restructured to take
account of the proposed state-wide rural development project. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that the T. U. would be
reorganized, staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.03 (c)).



9-
Land Tenure Improvement
3.13      Secure tenure of land is essential for sustained rural development.  The
Inter-American Development Bank has successfully financed a cadastral project that
covered part of the State. The improvement of land tenure conditions in the
Northeast continues to be a complex task that has justified a single, regional,
Bank-financed project, the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project
(para. 3.02). Redistribution targets, procedures for land acquisition, allotment,
and beneficiary selection were agreed as conditions for that loan. During
negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that in the
project priority areas: (a) at least 87,000 ha would be available for
redistribution to project beneficiaries by March 31, 1988; and (b) at least an
additional 48,000 ha would be available by March 31, 1990 (para. 4.01 (a)).
Project Organization and Implementation
3.14      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Land, and
Finance, and the Superintendent ot SUDENE, has overall policy planning and
budgeting responsibility for NRDP. As regional coordinator of the NRDP, SUDENE's
Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers receives policy backing
from a regional Rural Development Council (RDC) that includes representatives from
the Northeast states.
3.15      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor with the Secretary for Planning as Executive Secretary and
with up to five other State Secretaries, would provide overall guidance for rural
development activities. The day-to-day work would be carried out by the T. U.
which has its own budget, salary structure and administrative personnel
procedures. Because the unification of the federally-funded Northeast rural
special programs is important, it would be a condition of loan effectiveness that
the Bank be provided with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and
administration of all federally-funded rural special programs in Pernambuco have
been unified under the coordination of the T. U. (para. 4.05).
3.16      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the eight-year implementation period.
Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding availability for the NRDP
for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. The T. U. would consolidate each executing agency's
detailed annual operating plans, ensure internal consistency and submit them for
approval by SRDC and SUDENE. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional
operating plan to be presented to the IC as the basis for the portaria
(administrative regulation) signed by the Ministers and legally establishing
budget allocations for each State. During negotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent each year
to the Bark for comment prior to approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the Pernambuco State operating plan would be sent to the Bank
not later than April 1 of each year; and (c) any proposed changes in the planning
and budgeting process would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to
enactment (para. 4.02 (a)).
3.17      Accounts and ALditing.  Each agency would maintain its own separate
accounts for project experditures, to be audited annually by auditors acceptable



- 10 -
to the Bank.  During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that: (a) project accounts would be maintained according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would include
verification of the Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account; and (c)
copies of the audit report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the
close of the project's fiscal year (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.18      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered between: (a) the T. U. and federal agencies;
(b) executing agencies, with the participation of the T. U. when more than one is
involved in executing a project component; and (c) the T.U. or an executing agency
and the concerned municipality or group prior to construction of civil works or
initiation of a community subproject. These agreements would provide execution
guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for inter-agency
collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria. During
negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that they
would enter into all necessary agreements not later than six months after loan
signing (para. 4.01 (c)).
3.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have
simplified reporting requirements and would provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. The T. U. would receive
from executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators
and would produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly
monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the
end of the respective fiscal quarter; (b) the T. U.'s Monitoring and Evaluation
division would be fully staffed, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 (d)). (Details on Project Organization and
management are given in Annex 2.)
Project Cost
3.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$188.4 million (see Loan and
Project Summary) with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of US$17.7
million, or about 9%. The total cost.is based on the assumption that all goods
and services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of specialized
consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about US$5.7 million equivalent
in applicable local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 1%
and 16% of baseline costs, respectively.  Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction; 10% for other
construction; and 5% for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies
were estimated in US dollar terms based on international inflation rates
estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% tor 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990,
and 4.0% thereafter. It was assumed that period c local currency devaluations,
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.21      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$92.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of taxes. The
proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and
44% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including 3 years



- 11 -
of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan
would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the foreign
exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project.
Funding procedures would be those adopted for the NRDP (para. 3.16). Funds would
be channelled from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDENE to either a specific
project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or directly
to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government counterpart funds
would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the estimated Bank share of
monthly expenditures. During negotiations, the Federal Government provided
assurances that the administrative regulation establishing the above funding
procedures (portaria) would not be changed without Bank approval (para. 4.02(b)).
On-Lending Terms
3.22      Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis, to
participating federal agencies and the State of Pernambuco. In the case of
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans disbursed by
the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986 financial and monetary
reform, the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy
for rural credit. This policy--which would provide part of the policy framework
for the proposed Second Agricultural Sector Loan--would be aimed at maintaining
interest rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate according
to market conditions. Another important policy objective would be to reduce
credit subsidies substantially. There would be a general agricultural interest
rate, applicable to rural investment credit operations outside the North and the
Northeast regions, equal to the rate on commercial banks' certificates of deposit
(Certificados de Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage points. This rate
would be adjusted every six months, on March lst and September 1st of each year,
to a level 10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For
short-term credit, the interest rate would be initially set at the level
prevailing for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and would
remain fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate
has been fixed at 10% and it is expected that, in subsequent periods, the rate
will fluctuate near 10% in real terms. The interest rates for investment and
short-term credit to be applied to the small Northeast farmers who would benefit
from the proposed project would be: 2 percentage points below the general rate,
for investments in sugarcane, cocoa, coffee and rubber; 3 percentage points below
the general rate, for investments in irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5
percentage points below the geiteral rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below
in 1988 and thereafter; and 30% of the general rate, for other investments. These
rates represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until last
February.
3.23      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to
carry out the project's investment credit component; (b) the Central Bank and the
other participating banks would carry out th's com-onent in accordance with the
lending terms and conditions set forth in paras. 3.09 and 3.22 above; (c) each of
the participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and the T. U.
on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (d)
priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations of short-term
production credit to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate



- 12 -
to finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new
rural interest policy referred to in para. 3.22 above would provide the basis fot
an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the Government on
rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in connection with the
Agricultural Credit and Export Project (Loan 2348-BR). This amendment would also
provide for an annual review of Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the Bank
and the Government. The signing of the above amendment would be a condition of
signing for the loan proposed in this report (para. 4.02(c)).
Cost Recovery
3.24      Although it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery on
rural programs for low-income families, current legislation allows CISAGRO to
recover 100% of annual operation and maintenance costs and public investments in
common irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a 50-year period. The initial
investment is revalued but without charging interest 4/. The municipalities
would cover the costs of operation and maintenance of the water supply services
until the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at
that stage consumers would be expected to pay for the service. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery
provisions for public irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water
supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would be charged to
consumers in 1989 (para. 4.03 (e).
Procurement
3.25      Civil works, estimated at US$16.3 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that is capable of
carrying out project works. As individual construction works are small and
dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, but would not be
excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works would be carried
out by the beneficiaries under written agreements with the T. U. (para. 3.11).
Equipment, materials and vehicles required by the project, totalling some US$5.1
million, almost all locally produced, would be procured by the several executing
agencies at various locations over the project implementation period, in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods and
services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review
of procurement documentation (about 60% and 40% of the value of civil works, and
goods and services, respectively). Consultants' services totalling some 14
man-years, would be procured both locally and internationally in accordance with
Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined above and
in the following table (para. 4.01 (d)):
4/ For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects see Brazil:
Upper and M1Jdle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 5975-BR).



- 13 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure   LCB          Other       N.A.          Total
Civil Works                 16.3  (8.0)                            16.3  (8.0)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture             5.1  (0.9)                              5.1  (0.9)
Technical Assistance                     1.1 (1.1)                  1.1  (1.1)
Studies and Training                                  7.5  (3.5)   7.5  (3.5)
Rural Investment Credit                              49.6 (34.7)  49.6 (34.7)
Community Subprojects                                21.4 (15.0)  21.4 (15.0)
Salaries and Allowances                              67.4 (22.9)  67.4 (22.9)
Other Operating Expenses                             20.0  (5.9)  20.0  (5.9)
Total                   21.4  (8.9)  1.1 (1.1) 165.9 (82.0) 188.4 (92.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.26      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight and a half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development, credit and support to small
commmunities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for marketing.
Foreign consultants' services for water resource development would be financed at
100% of foreign expenditures. Disbursements for the remaining components, which
have a high rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.3 million for agricultural research,
US$6.8 million for extension, and US$3.5 million for administration and training
have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would be made
at a rate of 30% of project expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$2.1 million
for agricultural research, US$9.3 million for extension, and US$5.3 million for
administration and training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable an early start of
project execution, project expenditures, (eYcept agricultural credit) incurred
after December 1, 1985, (end of proJect appraisal), but before loan signature,
would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$4.5 million equivalent. However, no
disbursements would be made for the extension, research, water supply and
administration components in the municipalities of the ongoing project until funds
allocated for those co-ponents under Loan 1728-BR have been fully committed or
cancelled (para. 2.16). Disbursement projections reflect the disbursement profile
for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
3.27      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and ce:rified by the T. U. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available
during project supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit equivalent to US$4.0 million. Withdrawals in cruzados from the



- 14 -
Special Account, supported by Statements of Expenditures, would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date of the expenditure. The Central Bank
would send the corresponding withdrawal applications to the Bank, *shich would then
replenish the Special Account. The disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to
finance the construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the
following conditions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and contents of the techntical
assistance program for state irrigation agencies (para. 3.06(c)); (b) receipt by
the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land required for such schemes; and (c)
Bank approval of detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans, and operation
and maintenance standards for such schemes (para. 4.06). Any loan proceeds so
allocated, which by June 30, 1988 are not committed to a specific public
irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 4.07).
Project Benefits and Justification
3.28      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project on
production would result from increased productivity and an expansion of cropped
areas. At full project development, the annual value of incremental production is
estimated to be US$54 million; annual fiscal revenues from the value-added tax on
agricultural products is estimated to be US$6.5 million. Incremental production
that would be marketed through existing channels is not expect.J to lead to
marketing constraints as Pernambuco's present production does not meet demand.
Improved marketing facilities, water supply systems and community activities would
also provide substantial benefits to the population, especially to women.
Expanded agricultural activity would create jobs equivalent to some 34,000
man-years annually. Improved farming practices and careful use of agrochemicals
due to an expanded and trained extension staff would have a beneficial impact on
the environment. Estimated financial rates of return for illustrative farm models
range from 23% to 48%. Family incomes of project beneficiaries who all belong to
the poverty target group are estimated to range between US$1,140 and US$2,480 at
full development, representing an increase of 75% to 185% over present farm income
levels, not taking into account any supplemental income from off-farm work.
3.29      Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return has been estimated as
13%. Sensitivity tests show that when project benefits fall by 16% or project
costs rise by over 19% the rate of return falls below the estimated 11%
opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits,
such as might occur during a severe drought, would result in a 10% rate of
return. (Details of the Project Benefits and Economic Analysis are given in
Annex 3.)
Project Risks
3.30      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
inter-institutional cooperation would still be important for project success. Ttue
project includes monitoring, evaluation and technical assistance to foster a more
efficient Institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding
have also posed problems in past projects; however, recent changes in funding
channels, a new source of counterpart funds and the consolidation of rural
programs should help secure adequate and timely counterpart funding. At farm
level, the security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the
Government's agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers still



- 15 -
face re:urring drought conditions. Decreasing these risks has influenced project
design by increasing the focus on water resource development and on small farmer
technology generation and diffusion.
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, both the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that:
(a)  at least 87,000 ha by March 31, 1988, and an additional 48,000 ha by
March 31, 1990. would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries in priority areas (para. 3.13);
(b)  (i) project accounts would be maintained according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would
include verification of the Statements of Expenditures and the Special
Account; and (iii) copies of the audit report would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.17);
(c)  all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
six months after loan signature (para. 3.18); and
(d)  procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.25.
4.02     T)uring negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a)  (i) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for
comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the Pernambuco State operating plan would be sent to
the Bank not later than April 1 of each year; and (iii) any proposed
changes in the planning and budgeting process would be submitted to the
Bank for comment prior to enactment (para. 3.16);
(b)  the administrative regulation establishing funding procedures would not
be changed without Bank approval (para. 3.21); and
(c)  for rural credit, the sufficiency of funds, the eligibility criteria,
terms and conditions, reporting provisions, and credit priorities would
be applied as outlined in paras. 3.09 and 3.23.
4.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a)  within six months of loan signature, it would define with SUDENE's
assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the internal
structures of the Irrigation Division in the State Secretariat of
Agriculture and of CISAGRO's Irrigation unit; (ii) staffing requirements
and staff profiles for those agencies; and (iii) their operational
linkages; and put the preceeding organizational improvements into effect
(para. 3.06);
(b) (i) the community development fund would be established and maintained
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) no funds would
be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of an agreement



- 16 -
between the T. U. and the groups or municipalities (in the case of
unincorporated groups); and (iii) not later than December 31, 1988, the
Bank and the T. U. would review performance of the grants for the
economic subprojects to establish the feasibility of further community
fund operations on a loan basis (para. 3.11);
(c)  the T. U. would be reorganized, staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.12);
(d)  (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not later
than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; (ii)
the T^ U.'s Monitoring and Evaluation Division would be fully staffed,
under conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) terms of reference
and institutional arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.19); and
(e)  (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation and (ii) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 3.24).
4.04      It would be a condition of loan signature that the amendment to the
ongoing Agricultural Credit and Export Project (Loan 2348-BR), that establishes
interest rates for the subject project, be signed.
4.05      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided
with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
current rural special programs in Pernambuco be unified in the T. U. (para. 3.15).
4.06      It would be a condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing the
construction of public irrigation schemes that the Bank had: (i) approved the
scope and content of the technical assistance program for state irrigation
agencies; (ii) received proof of acquisition of the land required for irrigation
schemes; and (iii) approved the detailed engineering designs, resettlement plans,
and operation and maintenance standards for irrigation schemes (para. 3.27).
4.07      Any loan proceeds allocated for the construction of public irrigation
schemes, which by June 30, 1988 are not committed to a specific public irrigation
scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 3.27).
4.08      Subject to reaching the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$92.0 million equivalent with a term of 15 years,
including a 3-year grace period.
May 22, 1986



- 17 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 96% of Pernambuco's 330,000 farms are smaller than 100 ha, they
account for 42% of the area. However, 75% of the State's farms are smaller than
10 ha and account for only 11% of the area. Most of these very small farms are
located in the agreste, where they produce the bulk of the State's food (Table
1.1).
2.        Pernambuco's food production in a normal year does not match its
consumption needs. Further-more, during a drought year such as 1982, the yields of
the major annual crops (beans, maize and cotton) dropped between 35% and 60% when
compared to a normal year (Table 1.2).
B. Project Areas
3.        The project areas, or priority areas, where the state rural development
plan would take place include 118 of Pernambuco's 167 municipalities. Two-thirds
of the project area lies in the agreste, where the State has already begun a land
titling program. It is also the area with the heaviest concentration of small
farmers (Tables 1.3 and 1.4).
C. Detailed Features of ProjectComponents
Water Resource Development
4.        The public irrigation subcomponent would consist of two mediumrsized
irrigation schemes: Areial (400 ha), and Jatoba (150 ha), as well as 17 small
irrigation perimeters (1,620 ha); in all, 1,515 families would benefit. In
addition, about 6,000 ha of private irrigation financed under the rural investment
credit component is expected to benefit 3,000 families. The project would also
finance the acqu4sition by the State of external technical services, during the
first three years of project implementation, to provide the Irrigation Division
with general technical advice and the State Agricultural Development Company
(CISAGRO) with specialized assistance in project implementation and irrigation
perimeter management.
5.        The execution of the public irrigation component would be carried out by
the Irrigation Division, to be created in the Water Resources Department (CERH)
within the Secretariat of Agriculture, and by CISAGRO which would be strengthened
under the project. CERH would be responsible for planning and coordinating
irrigation activities, including the drafting of feasibility studies, the final
engineering design (usually by consultants), basic studies for the State's
irrigation planning, preparation of projects to be implemented in subsequent NRDP
phases and monitoring and evaluation of irrigation activities. CISAGRO would be
responsible for construction supervision, execution of settlement programs,



- 18 -
management of the irrigation perimeters, collection of water tariffs and technical
assistance to farmers. The State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-PE) would be responsible for the implementation of the private irrigation
program and for providing extension services to public irrigated perimeters where
agreements with CISAGRO were arranged. The State would strengthen both the
Irrigation Division in the Secretariat of Agriculture and CISAGRO's Irrigation
Unit and define with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
the details of: (i) the Department's and Unit's structures; (ii) staffing
requirements and staff profiles for those agencies; and (iii) the internal
operational linkages between both irrigation agencies; and put the preceeding
organizational improvements into effect.
6.        The planning and execution of the irrigation subcomponent would be
subject to the following conditions: (i) Bank approval of the-scope and content of
the technical assistance program for the state irrigation agencies; (ii) receipt
by the Bank of the proof of acquisition of the land required for the irrigation
schemes; and (iii) Bank approval of detailed engineering designs, resettlement
plans, and operation and maintenance standards for such schemes. In the case of
small schemes (conventional schemes under 150 ha) Bank's approval might be
requested by submitting groups of similar projects. In the case of schemes by low
pumping from the Sao Francisco river, design-level determination of their
compatibility with best estimates of river level raise consequent to future
hydroelectric development would be required. Cost recovery through water tariffs
would be implemented in accordance with Federal Government legislation. All funds
financed from the Bank loan that are not committed to a specific public irrigation
scheme approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988, would be cancelled.
7.        The cost of collective infrastructure varies considerably: the Areial
and Jatoba schemes are estimated at US$4,000/ha, the group of 17 small schemes
that are simpler and require less infrastructure are estimated at US$2,500/ha.
On-farm works average about US$800/ha.
8.        The water supply subcomponent would consist of the construction of 50
simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells, 65 smaller systems using
hand-dug wells, 25 systems using surface water and the recuperation of 73 systems
that have stopped functioning. This subcomponent is only expected to be financed
for the first two years of project implementation as this action would later be
funded by the Bank-financed Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program
currently under preparation. Each simple water supply system would include a deep
or shallow well or surface source of water, pumping equipment, a transmission
line, a storage tank, laundry facilities and one or more standpipes that would
serve from 10 to 100 families. Water supply systems would be designed for an
average flow of 30 liters per capita per day. The per capita investment cost of
new systems is estimated to be between US$28 and US$67.
9.        Administration of the water supply component would be carried out by the
Technical Unit within the Secretariat of Planning. Construction of the water
supply systems would be carried out by CISAGRO or by small contractors under
CISAGRO's supervision. Selection criteria for communities would include village
size, per capita investment costs, community willingness to gradually assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance, and location. Preference would be
given to areas where various communities require new systems so as to allow for
economies of scale in drilling costs. During a transition period, until the
Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program becomes effective, the
municipalities and the State would assist the communities in meeting operating



- 19 -
expenses. CISAGRO would discuss the location of the wells and standpipes with the
recipients before installation of the systems; it would also provide technical
backstopping and preventive maintenance and training to the community.
10.       The fisheries subcomponent would consist of stocking 14 state lakes
(17,000 ha of water surface) with fingerlings and monitoring and rationalizing the
fishing that takes place there. Fingerlings would be bought from three existing
fish hatcheries within the state that have under-utilized production capacity.
II.       Implementacion of the fisheries subcomponent would be undertaken by the
the Secretariat of Agriculture. Once the lakes are stocked, fishing by
communities living on the lakes would be monitored and controlled to maintain
production levels, as is already done in ten state lakes.
Agricultural Research anc. Basic Seed Production
12.       The Federal Agricultural Research Company's (EMBRAPA) and the Institute
for Agricultural Research in Pernambuco (IPA), the state-run agricultural research
institute, have both developed and would continue to develop technical
recommendations to improve productivity. Recently there have been considerable
improvements in coordination among state research units (under the guidance of
EMBRAPA), more focus on the small farmer, and a shift from commodity-based
research to farm systems research. The project would finance: (a) four
agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in future research planning;
(b) 730 short-and medium term applied research trials at experiment stations to
improve production techndlogy; (c) 12 farm-level observation units to test
improved technology using farmer participation; (d) production of about 120
improved dairy cattle for distribution to farmers; and (e) incremental equipment,
salaries, training and other operating expenses related to these activities.
13.       The implementing agency would be IPA, a well established and reputable
institution. Technical supervision, training, coordination with research programs
in other states, and review of annual plans would be the responsibility of the
Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA), which
is receiving support for those activities under Northeast Rural Development I
Project (Loan 2353-BR). IPA would develop research in cooperation with both
farmers and extension officers, and appraise results from the farm-level
observation units. Cooperating farmers who have observation units on their farms
would contribute to the costs of investments (about 25% of total costs, mostly
using credit and by providing labor). Once the observation units have been
technically and economically proven, they would be replicated through
demonstration units under the aegis of EMATER-PE.
14.       IPA would also expand an existing program to produce basic seeds for
five major cropsz rice, beans, maize, grain sorghui and castor beans. The project
would finance investment costs for sheds, vehicles, agricultural equipment, and
recurrent costs. The basic seed produced would be sold to cooperatives for
multiplication. IPA would also expand its existing dairy cattle program to
produce about 15 animals of Improved breeding stock per year. They would be
distributed to small farmers through a credit-in-kind program under the
organization of EMATER-PE.
Agricultural Extension
15.       EMATER-PE is already prc  'iing extension to farmers in part of the



- 20 -
State. Under the proposed project the extension service would be expanded to
reach about 73,000 farm families by full project development. The project would
finance: (a) establishment, construction (if necessary) and equipping of 5
district offices; (b) establishment of about 470 demonstration plots; (c) payment
of recurrent costs for about 400 agricultural and social extension agents (two
agricultural agents for every social extension agent), 50 subject-matter
specialists and supervisory personnel, and about 190 administrative staff; (d)
production of about 10 million seedlings for social reforestation; and (e)
purchase of project-related vehicles, and training and operating costs.
16.       EMATER-PE field staff are organized into six regional offices and 125
district offices in the project area. Most supervisory personnel and subject
matter specialists would be located in regional offices or in Recife and would
travel to supervise local extension agents. At district level, each extension
agent would assist, on a fixed schedule, six to ten groups of 20-30 farmers
organized around contact farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of
agricultural extension agents to farm families in rainfed areas by the eighth year
of project implementation would be 1:300; in irrigated areas it would be 1:100.
Social extension workers would work with farm families to improve sanitation,
child care, family nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable gardens. About
42 additional extensionists would work exclusively on the Support to Small
Communities component. Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension (EMATER) would supervise EMATER-PE at least once a
month.  In service training for extension staff would be undertaken at EMATER-PE's
training center and at IPA.
17.       Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices which would improve crop yields, expand the cultivated area and increase
livestock production. Many practices to reach these objectives are already
proven, such as: (a) increased use of animal traction to improve land preparation
and labor productivity; (b) use of improved seeds; (c) contour plowing to improve
water and soil conservation; (d) improved weed control; (e) use of
drought-resistant and perennial crops; (f) improved animal husbandry; and (g)
improved pastures and cultivated forage crops.
18.       Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for the
implementation of the social forestry activities aimed at producing some 10
million seedlings for farmers to plant for fuelwood, timber, fruit and fodder
trees. Small nurseries would be installed at village level and EMATER-PE
technical staff would be specifically trained in seedling production, distribution
and wood lot management.
Rural Investment Credit
19.       See paras. 3.09 and 3.23.
Marketing Services
20.       The marketing services component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of product grading, markets and prices, improve the timely provision and
marketing of agricultural inputs, and establish a pilot food wholesaling service
in rural areas. Ongoing Government schemes, such as the Minimum Price Scheme and
the Advance Purchase Scheme of farmers' surpluses, would continue, but not with
Bank support.



- 21 -
21.       The marketing information service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity carried
out by the Ministry of Agriculture. It provides farmers with timely advice on
local and regional prices, storage facilities, transport, and selling options.
The project would establish seven regional offices at Caruaru, Garanhuns, Bonito,
Afogados da Ingazeira, Belem do Sao Francisco, Petrolina, and Vitoria de Santo
Antao, as well as financial support to the existing central office in Recife.
Each office would have two marketing technicians and a clerk.  Data would be
collected at markets and disseminated by radio and printed bulletins. The project
would finance staff salaries, vehicles and office equipment.
22.       Farm product grading would be carried out by Pernambuco's Warehouse
Company (CAGEP) with a mobile classification and grading unit* The unit would
visit, assist farmers in classifying and grading fruit, vegetables and grain. The
project would finance vehicles and equipment.
23.       The fruit and vegetable wholesale market in Victoria de Santo Antao, 40
km from Recife is inadequate for the volume of trading that takes place there.
The market complex to be constructed would include some 2,500 m2 of construction
in Victoria and some 900 m2 in Recife itself. Construction of the new markets
would be carried out by CAGEP; management and maintenance of both complexes would
be done by the Central Marketing Organization of Pernambuco (CEASA).
24.       The expansion of the food wholesale service would be carried out by the
State branch of the Federal Food Company (COBAL), which has been operating mainly
in urban areas. Under the project, COBAL would expand its operations in the rural
areaa, enabling some 200 retailers to affiliate with COBAL's Rede Somar scheme,
whereby goods are purchased by small retailers frc}m COBAL at lower prices than
tnose purchased through the private wholesale system. Retail prices for these
goods are then controlled by COBAL and the savings (about 10-15%) are passed on
to consumers. The project would finance: (a) the expansion and renovation of
three service centers (in Caruaru, Arco Verde and Salgueiro) to allow for more
regional purchasing of basic food crops, and (b) vehicles, equipment and initial
stock.
25.       The construction, maintenance and management of three warehouses (each
3,000 m2) in Cedro, Exu and Ouricuri would be the responsibility of CAGEP, which
is currently responsible for several warehouses in Pernambuco.
26.       Training of extension agents in marketing techniques would be carried
out by EMATER-PE. After training it is anticipated that the extension agents
would pass on their knowledge to farmers. The courses for extension agents would
include product marketing systems, marketing margins, advantages of crop
classification, market preferences, processing, handling, and crop storage.
Support to Small Rural Communities
27.       The objectives of the Support to Small Aural Communities (SSRC)
component are to help formal and informal groups of farmers participate in their
own development by- (a) providing tthm with a system whereby they select, plan,
implement, manage, and monitor their own interests through group representation;
and (b) enabling them to improve their economic base through organizing joint
resources for higher production. In order to carry out these objectives, the
component would include: (a) creation of a community grant fund of US$21.4 million
to finance local development projects; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and
(e) training and recurrent costs of about 42 community development agents. Most
of the 73,000 project beneficiaries would benefit directly or indirectly as a
result of the local development projects (LDP).



- 22 -
28.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three categories of
LDPs: (a) those expected to raise incomes (representing in total at least 60% of
the fund) such as cottage industries, building of fish ponds, and small animal
production schemes; (b) those expected to improve the communities' infrastructure
(representing at least 25% of the fund) such as construction of communal laundry
facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes, and repair of small access
roads; and (c) those that improve the communities organization (representing not
more than 15% of the fund) such as training group leaders and giving legal
assistance for land tenure matters. Guidelines have been established to help
select LDPs:
(a)  LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and would
include objectives, justification, expected benefits, method of
implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate with about 15% of
cost), and monitoring and evaluation;
(b)  the fund would not finance schemes funded by other project components
nor the construction of schools, health posts, roads, or rural
electrification;
(c)  the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d)  the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the community
and eventually become self sustaining.
29.       EMATER-PE would be responsible for the implementation of the SSRC.  It
would recruit, mainly from within its own existing staff, 42 full-time CD agents
who would be university graduates. These agents, each one covering three
municipalities, would stimulate community organizations and assist in the
formulation of group requests for LCPs. Group requests would then be submitted to
Municipal Councils for discussion, analysis, evaluation, and approval. Municipal
Council members would be elected by village, and each village would send two
representatives to the Council. The relevant CD agent and regional coordinators
would also participate in the analysis and evaluation of group requests. The
T. U. could reverse the Municipal Council's recommendation if it did not conform
with the stated guidelines, or postpone funding if funds had been exhausted for
the current fiscal year
30.       Disbursements would be made in installments and progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a legally
registered association or group, disbursements would be made directly to the group
through a bank account. In the case of an unregistered group, the agreement would
be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group and funds would be channelled
through the municipality. At present all funds would be disbursed on a grant
basis but by the end of 1988 the T. U. and the Bank would review the experience to
date on the economically based LDPs to study the possibility of carrying out
further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
31.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDPs would be extremely important to
both the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC component itself.
During the preparation of a group request the CD agent and the group would
determine the procedures required for monitoring and evaluation. As a
participatory effort monitoring and evaluation would: (a) increase the awareness



- 23 -
and commitment within the community; (b) allow findings to be fed back immediately
to the group; and (c) as an ongoing process, give the CD agent a closer
understanding of the project and of the community's evolution.
Project Administration and Training
32.       See Annex 2.
D. Project Cost
33.       See para.3.20 and Annex 1, Tables 1.5 and 1.6.
E. Project Financing
34.       See para. 3.21.
F. Procurement
35.       See para. 3.25.
G. Disbursements
36.       See paras. 3.26 and 3.27 and Annex 1, Tables 1.7 and 1.8
H. Accounts and Auditing
37.       See para. 3.17.
I. Progress Reporting and Monitoring and Evaluation
38.       See para. 3.19 and Annex 2.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
State Structure of Land Holdings
FARM SIZE                      AREA                                           FARMS
('000 ha)                                       ('000)
SERTAO    AGRESTE    MATA    TOTAL          SERTAO    AGRESTE   MATA    TOTAL
Less than 10 ha   246.5      409.5      56.0     712.0        64.9      157.5      24.3   246.7
10-50             710.4      471.6     96.9   1,278.9         32.0       22.9       5.5    60.4
50-100            501.1      228.4      35.6     765.1         7.2        3.4       0.5    11.1
100+            2,203.6      921.3    757.1   3,882.0         6.9         3.3       1.7    11.9
TOTAL         3,661.6   2,030.8    945.6   6.638.0         111.0      187.1      32.0   330.1
SOURCE: IBGE Census 1980.



-25 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 1.2
RAZIL
NMD,AST RURAL DEVEwr PROGRAM
NISMIHEASr RURAL DEVEWPMNf V P1F)JECt (PNANBUa)
Evolution of State AWcriultural Prxxidction
(Mbjor Crops 1973 and 1982)
1973                             1982
CROa a/      Yield    Pruction      Area a/   Yield  Production
(ba)       kg/ba      (tons)
Sugarcane (t)         332,412     47,284    15,717 b/      357,16   49,218   17,578 b/
Beans                 255,924        531   135,895         270,804      341   92,344
Mbaze                 312,613        742   231,958         235,080      403   94,738
Cassava               169,322     10,635      1,800 b/     174,824    9,531    1,666 b/
Seed Cbtton (Amusal)   250,457       214    53,598         107,438       91    9,777
Seed Cotton (Perennial) 95,346       358    34,134          43,841      242   10,609
castor Beans           81,396        595    48,432          25,265      264    6,670
Banrnas                16,021     17,360   278,124          17,812   16,830  299,776
Coffee Beans           15,900        714    11,353          15,823      760   12,026
c(cxmnts                9,119      4,742 C/ 43,240 d/       11,700    3,880 C/ 45,396 d/
Tmtmtoes                5,984     20,098   120,266           8,635   24,960  215,530
onions                  3,050      9,202    28,066           5,570   11,836   65,926
Rioe (paddy)            4,991      1,821      9,089          4,272    3,490   14,910
a/ Harvested
WV/ nuaiK tons
c/  uits per a
NI IIXid nuts
Sonrwe: FIB



- 26 -                                ANNEK I
Table 1.3
HAZrL
NI)RIWASt RURAL DIELWP?HT PR0(DIM
ND)R111ASr RURAL DEVELORM' V PROJ=7 (PERNAMBX)
Proect Priority Areas and BeneficiarY Distribution
Entire State/Regions                 Project Priority Areas
Estinated a/
Naiber of      Land                                 Number of       Number of
kmicipalities  Area (Kn2) Popilation Rural Famxiies l4micipalities Beneficiaries
SERLWO         46         62,603   1,020,609       130,127           32          21,000
AGEEM          72         24,714    1,794,265      207,101           68          48,000
MBA            49          10,%4   3,296.19        138,771           18           4,000
IUrAL      167          98,281    6,110,993     475,999          118           73,0X
a/ Estiuted nmxer of families benfitting at full developlEnt frau the State Rural
Development Plan.
Source: SEPLANAN/(F



-  27  -                       ANNEX I
fabUe1. 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTE LAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
List of Municipalities in the Project Area
ARARIPINA                                   ARCOVERDE
1.   Araripina                              1.   Arcoverde
2.   Bodoco                                 2.   Pedra
3.   Exu                                    3.   Venturosa
4.   Granito
5.   Ipubi
6.   Ouricuri                              AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
7.   Sitio dos Moreiras
8.   Trindade                               1.   Bom Jardim
2.   Cha Grande
SALGUEIRO                                   3.   Cumaru
4.   Feira Nova
1.   Cedro                                 5.   Frei Miguelinho
2.   Parnamirim                             6.   Gloria do Goita
3.   Serrita                               7.   Joao Alfredo
4.   Terra Nova                             8.   Limoeiro
9.   Machados
BELEM DO SAO FRANCISCO                      10.  Orobo
11. Passira
1.   Belem do Sao Francisco                12.  Pombos
2.   Oroco                                  13.  Salgadinho
3.   Sta. Maria da Boa Vista                14.  Santa Maria do Cambuca
15. Sao Vicente Ferrer
16.  Surubim
ALTO PAJEU                                  17.  Taquaritinga do Norte
18.  Toritama
1.   Afogados da Ingazeira                 19.  Vertentes
2.   Brejinho
3.   Calumbi                               VALE DO IPOJUCA
4.   Carnaiba
5.   Flores                                1.   Alagoinha
6.   Iguaraci                              2.   Belo Jardim
7.   Ingazeira                             3.   Bezerros
8.   Itapetim                              4.   Brejo da Madre de Deus
9.   Santa Terezinha                        5.   Cachoeirinha
10.  Sao Jose do Egito                     6.   Capoeiras
11.  Serra Talhada                         7.   Caruaru
12.  Solidao                               8.   Gravata
13.  Tabira                                9.   Jatauba
14.  Triunfo                                10.  Pesqueira
15.  Tuparetama                            11.  Pocao
12. Riacho das Almas
SERTAO DO MOXOTO                            13.  Sanharo
14. Santa Cruz do Capibaribe
1.   Custodia                              15.  Sao Bento do Una
2.   Sertania                               16.  Sao Caetano
17. Tacaimbo



-  28  -
AGRESTE MERIDIONAL                         MATA SECA
1.   Agrestina                             1.   Carpina
2.   Altinho                               2.   Goiana
3.   Angelim                               3.   Nazare da Mata
4.   Barra de Guabiraba                    4.   Pau D'Alho
5.   Bom Conselho                          5.   Timbauba
6.   Bonito                                6.   Vicencia
7.   Brejao
8.   Caetes                                RECIFE
9.   Calcado
10.  Comocim de Sao Felix                   1.  Cabo
11.  Canhotinho                            2.  Sao Lourenco da Mata
12. Correntes
13.  Cupira                                MATA UMIDA
14. Garanhuns
15.  lati                                  1.   Agua Preta
16.  IbiraJuba                             2.   Barreiros
17.  Jupi                                  3.   Catende
18.  Jurema                                4.   Escada
19.  Lagoa do Ouro                         5.   Gameleira
20.  Lagoa dos Gatos                        6.   Joaquim Nabuco
21.  Lajedo                                7.   Maraial
22.  Palmeirina                             8.   Palmares
23.  Panelas                               9.   Ribeirao
24.  Paranatama                             10.  Vitoria de Santo Antao
25. Saire
26. Saloa
27. Sao Joao
28.  Sao Joaquim de Monte
29. Terezinha



2 -
Wm~ 
NT   FL  oPrW  F_
aIE6TMEA am    W1WID  FRMIE    V (FIUWSOM)
A.hl Cget 1ag of fleict LativitiGe
Is  cests                                             Tail
81t9wim  1967118 1an            19w6/10  19111 1192 1192/IM    11994    US$    (Ii
9mmIC VAY1 SIRM                                m    m -                                           a. mas
miLC IMRItAlO                                  3.025     2.727     2M733     2,51      1.073         2        610       610    13485
FE*SILITY STUDIES                                161       253       120      1t0        200          -         -         -       916
FI%SI ACTIUITIB                                  134       S15       lye       211       244        235       230       230     1596
Sub-Tto   MATER RES £URE OE   ~L                  4043      4#0       3.051     2,449     1.511        a6        o33       o      17,67
a. mAzt.LTmUIL RESEARCH
RESEARCH                                         38        745       674       m         761        m         m         735     3,59
'   AND CATPLE PRO1ZTIUN                          94       136       163       155       155        155       155       155    l1.16
-SUDIES                                          56         6         67        66        67         67        67        67 u44
Su&-Ta1 tl  RICLLII   1ESARCH                      536        948       904       m         983       94         "4         56     sW3
C. RURl UT'113
0(11O61                                       2.352      4480      4.31      4,390     4.554     4.492      4530      4s,3     33,75'
SCtAL EFOIESTAnO                                 144       250       306       SU        581       581        581        81     39.60
Sub-TotalUl £W1A10181                            2s496      4,730    4W65       4.9m      5136      5.073      5.131     5170   3V434
D. cDIT                                          2.614   5S957        7,694     9.037     9.171      7.147     4.90      3W0U    49t,53
Et NARIcETINS
SADFORATnON                                       79       130       109       10        109        109       109       lei       657
FO    MY                                           -       665       749       433         -          -         -         -     1.847
PRODU=  MAUT09                                                                   -         -          -
PILC STRE   D CAS CATIN                           17         4       474       92         73                    -         -     1.5s9
Sub-Total Nt 1U                                      96     17        14313     1.475       17         109       109       101     5,209
F.    W   TO slWAL C_u     TIS
COHIWNaTY FID                                   199        547     WU        53V       6.46W     5412          i9         -    21P.61
ADISTRAUTON                                     427         30       666       6         744       730        646       666     5295
Su-Total  MPMR  TO  ILL MOIIIITIE"                 626      1277      3.052     6.206     7r152    6W142       1,5t5       666    26,656
S. AINlSMRTON AND TRAZI
PROJECT ANZTRAbTIIIE                            474      1849      1.791     l.m 9     1U629     183       1J22       1631    12P472
SNITO      AND I E An ON                          -        157       156       156       157       157        156       156     1,095
IRAD                                            5S2       64         540       633       626        a5                   79     3.217
5hTOWt   DNISTA1ION11 AND T11*1                  1,035     2.M        2.43      2,581     2.413     I.95      lowU       1e6    16.tn4
tsui  RAS       COSTS                             1,44U7    21.473    23s177    V.711    26tS60    22.248    15,406    12641   160!663
Phuical Cminmif                                    378       538       332       312        St        29         16        12     1.702
Price Contiroies                                  324     1.682    2,469      3,57      3926      4,171     468        5246    26,f V
Total PRDJECT COSTS                               120149    23.693    25973    31,594    30.571    26t448    20,103    17,89    138.434
inaaaa-                  --aza  agaau   --aaa   auum aaaamumzs    aaaaasa
Tom                                               914     1.395     1039       1,028       615       426       209       124      50749
Foreign   Ehark                                 1.905     2,947     2743    3WU6         2183      2s16      1,070        69    17662
Aptri 3. 196 16:26



af                                              ol om mm                                             tk
11021 m u           11001 n.       m        m     agn    aimgu3fvNM" RAI                          FMm   m  rnm         ffu isIu  - mum WNt                 w
69133366      -     -      3393715311      J?ltO                                 3.33.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.Sw.sto,ts
=In", CIM ~ ~   ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ -31639                                                                                                         eu
IL Cm                ms    a       3S9u1  il                                                    m,            m       -           a1                  #6 
KZXM                             3~mx  woa   im   9613  mi.pumsm        ims301.301   132  nI                        axsIiw      Pm     asumm0un131u4 33    4                             in
OF*MM                 o-    -14     -               -      -           -         -                                                                                           I~3 ~   -     -M   -46  -.I
9~~-i..i own. -  a,si~~~~~~~~  6.437  -  is            -a            a                             m      i no.aut             -                                              1A.3  a21.
o. woas mimi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mu 
131935 Ima                            a        -n   to    WD         a     I      333                       a  364    II6                                          3  a              3.01." Ls    1
D Man.-                               a                s     m                   ,.          --s                                                                                       .s        i
13343-                                 -                      -PAM0                          -     -        5      Ou                                   -          -4    -1      -    1159 
3.-1g.313n.413391  327    331    1  3    2? 3.301                 -           34     21         42                    )         033      3     -   449  U    3
H. -mo am
a. m*a3   ij
US        -      3     32      1     0     99          -              4-                    -          0n53?                       31      *.600            9
low mm=-t -3-                                                                                                                                                   -    -VI-M
wwoummucimic            -   3.47             sow0    mm6     US   12   3.9           -      -      601-443                                               .9      31*1~
,.633.lm  -  -  -   -.            -.          -      3.19     -        -   -      -          -         -           -          -      -      -   3.33   U     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I"!*1
C. Nm~3  me1(611                                        -      -      -     -       -        -12  mama  s                                              4        Ism- 190 
C. u M  113011                   4     4               .3     .9     1,3 9         33        .1               3090--                                   542       3.7 (fAEU      1.9433    9
3...a3.mml                       "I      71       -      I      I          SW  Wi66NM                          344       3         33? -2                34         39    0m  lo       173  0.4      0
3.1..                           to1m   4    347I  In1    9311  low3    VI   116  31011.6    1#331    -                  340I      410                 3,36        443      37n   15   Wm47   3    3w
Ism                            230    1603             la3             47   3 a    .094        -             330 in        I"                -          26         33       9     -         7   6.       EULi
rema taum              ~~~43    Its6            a 6    33      a3   Is   3.30             7047       17  139    m         S41     34"           63         293    326   39  17.2  2.7  409
owls, 2M 393 81



-  31  -                         ANNEX I
Tia-De 17
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursement   Cum'alative
Bank Year       Quarter                During         Amount      Balance
Fiscal         Ending                 Quarter       Disbursed   of Loan
1987          Sept. 30, 1986         4.0 I/           4.0          88.0
Dec. 31, 1986         1.6              5.6          86.4
March 31, 1987        1.6              7.2          84.8
June 30, 1987         1.8              9.0          83.0
1988          Sept. 30, 1987         1.8             10.8          81.2
Dec. 31, 1987         3.4             14.2          77.8
March 31, 1988        3.4             17.6          74.4
June 30, 1988         3.4             21.0          71.0
1989          Sept. 30, 1988         3.4             24.4          67.6
Dec. 31, 1988         3.8             28.2          63.8
March 31, 1989        3.8             32.0          60.0
June 30, 1989         3.8             35.8          56.2
1990          Sept. 30, 1989         3.8             39.6          52.4
Dec. 31, 1989         4.2             43.8          48.2
March 31, 1990        4.2             48.0          44.0
June 30, 1990         4.2             52.2          39.8
1991          Sept. 30, 1990         4.2             56.4          35.6
Dec. 31, 1990         4.0             60.4          31.6
March 31, 1991        4.0             64.4          27.6
June 30, 1991         4.0             68.4          23.6
1992          Sept. 30, 1991         4.0             72.4          19.6
Dec. 31, 1991         2.8             75.2          16.8
March 31, 1992        2.8             78.0          14.0
June 30, 1992         2.8             80.8          11.2
1993          Sept. 30, 1992         2.8             83.6           8.4
Dec. 31, 1992         1.7             85.3           6.7
March 31, 1993        1.7             87.0           5.0
June 30, 1993         1.6             88.6           3.4
1994          Sept. 30, 1993         0.8             89,4           2.,6
Dec. 31, 1993         0.6             90.0           2.9
March 31, 1994        0.6             90.6           1.4
June 30, 1994         0.5             91.1           0.9
1995          Sept. 30, 1994         0.5             91.5           0.4
Dec. 31, 1994         0.4             92.0           0.0
1/ Including initial deposit of US$4.0 million into the Special Account.



-  32  -                      ANNEX I
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                     Item                                    Amount
USS Million
I        Water Resources Development.                            12.9
70% of expenditures
It        Agricultural Research.  50% of expenditures              2.3
up to an aggregate disbursement under this
category of US$1.3 million; 30% thereafter
until the aggregate reaches US$2.1 million;
and 10% thereafter
III        Rural Extension.
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of
US$6.8 million; 30% thereafter
until the aggregate reaches
US$9.3 million; and 10% thereafter.                     10.3
IV        Credit.                                                 31.2
70% of expenditures
V        Marketing.                                               2.6
50% of expenditures.
VI         Support to Small Communities.                           17.7
70% of expenditures
VII         Administration and Training.
(i) Administration. 50% of expenditures                  4.4
up to an aggregate disbursement of US$2.5
million; 30% thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$4.0 million; and 10% thereafter
(ii) Training. 50% of expenditures up to an              1.4
aggregate disbursement of US$1.0 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches
US$1.3 million; and 10% thereafter
VIII         Unallocated                                               9.2
92.0



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Internministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Land
Reform, and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy and
planning responsibility for the NRDP (Chart 1). The Director for the Program of
Support to Small Farmers within SUDENE would be the regional coordinator of the
NRDP, in which the proposed project participates. The Directorate receives policy
backing for its work through the Regional Rural Development Council (RDC), linked
to SUDENE's Deliberative Cc,.ncil which includes all of the Northeast State
Governors. The RDC would consist of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior
management of the Directorate, representatives of the involved federal ministries
and banks, and the Northeast State Secretaries responsible for program
coordination.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council (SRDC), chaired by the Governor with
the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and with up to five other State
Secretaries as members, would provide overall guidance for rural development
activities.
3.        The Technical Unit (T. U.), a unit with its own budget, salary structure
and administrative personnel procedures, located within the Secretariat of
Planning, would be the agency responsible for administering and coordinating all
federally-funded rural programs and for fully integrating (including training)
them under the project (Table 2.1). Under the project it would be responsible
for: (a) consolidating annual operating plans drafted by executing agencies; (b)
supervising project performance and advising the SRDC on institutional or
technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement
requests; (d) evaluating ongoing projects; and (e) administering training
activities and the community development fund.
4.        The T. U.  would reorganize its administrative structure to adjust to
the needs of the NRDP. Its headquarters in Recife would have up to about 60
technicians organized into an executive superintendency, three advisors, a
technical general manager, three division managers (Planning, Field Operations,
and Administration and Financing) and seven unit managers (information,
programming, evaluation, training, agricultural development, finance and
administration). The field offices would gradually expand in number from three



- 34 -
in the first year to six in the third. Field offices would typically have three
project officers, namely: a field manager and one officer covering economic
activities (such as extension) and another for social activities.
B. Training
5.        Training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally coordinated
and administered by the Training Division to avoid duplication and conflicting
strategies among state agencies. The five types of training given would be:
(a) Induction Training. The objective would be to give an initial
orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders as to the basic
project concepts, components, expectations, and the underlying strategy
of "participation- in the implementation of project activities. It
would be given by the T. U.
(b)  ProJect Component Training.  The objective would be to provide technical
training by component for staff. Responsibility for assessing the needs
and undertaking the execution of the training program would remain with
the implementing agencies, but the T. U.'s Training Division would have
to give its clearance before releasing project funds.
(c) Management Training. The objective would be to improve both the T. U's
own managerial skills (both at central and regional level) as well as
those of the implementing agencies. Though organized by the T. U., the
courses themselves would be given by consultants.
(d) Training of Trainers. The T. U. in cooperation with SUDENE would train
trainers, usually with the assistance of consultants.
(e) Farmer Training. Farmers would receive training on specific components,
such as credit, marketing, and community development. In each case the
respective implementing state agency would be responsible for the
training.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to simplify
reporting requirements and to provide accurate and timely information for project
management and annual planning. The T. U. would receive from executing agencies
monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators (Chart 2).  In addition,
the T. U.'s monitoring and evaluation division would be strengthened to coordinate
monito-- ng and evaluation and assist regional offices to carry out ongoing
evaluation of project activities including agricultural production. State
evaluation activities under the proposed project would comprise: (a) a baseline
survey; (b) ongoing evaluation and special studies of selected topics; (c)
mid-term evaluation; and (d) post-project evaluation.



-  35  -                     ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROCRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Main
Executing
Project Activity                       Agency       Main Collaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development
- State public irrigation              CISAGRO     Consultants
- Fisheries subcomponent               SAPE        SUDENE
- Feasibility studies                  SAPE        Consultants
- Rural community water supply        CISAGRO      Private Contractors
State Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation units  IPA          EMBRAPA-CPATSA
- Basic seed production                IPA         EMATER-PE
Rural Extension
- Agricultural Extension              EMATER-PE   EMBRATER-EMBRAPA
- Social Forestry                     EMATER-PE   T. U.
Rural Investment Credit                BB, BNB, BP EMATER-PE
Marketing Services
- Service centers                     COBAL        CEASA
- Marketing information               SIMA         CEASA
- Retail shops                        COBAL        Farmers Cooperatives
- Training courses                    EMATER-PE
Support to Small Rural Communities
- Community activities                Community   T. U.-EMATER-PE
groups
- Training and technical assistance   T. U.        EMATER-PE
State Project Administration
- M & E                               T. U.        SUDENE
- Training                            T. U. and
Executing
Agencies



I;       III1                                1



NCOSRUA DEOMEN FROGRM
Nodhead Rurd DsOphV PVo*ect (P.mw,buco)
Schedubheti
a          3           G     I     6 .                      .     7
_  2 3 4      a  3a  42 23            4423      4S3       I1334         234    q 4334
WOW P4e An"                  COAGaO       .., ..*as--    
I ----                                                - - -                            1X10-C       m -1G1
wgo &"Spum                   c~C.O        ------ 
( ..I idaNWMb%tk             WA---                    -               ---       -     -            
N^  _OSW   _m        _             _____    _____    _____  .
UMOWd TES                    _A           -    - _   _  _ _                - _        - _- _ _ _ _ _-  - _              _  
EvSuogoqWdA.b1CAGw                         . *.. ..4 .. --    
F| ,   Mmw                   CM0 Goo -- Imm |                 - '      -  -  -    -  -    -  - -  - -  -    - -                       ]
-dbI't               * _     C_A_W_    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _   _   __   _   _   _   _  _  _  _  _  _ _ _ _
~w*ct                                                 - - - -        -  Xl l   l   -  -
S1 Fc..                     CM  .  .  .  .  ** ..   cc    s    - -    -    --    -   -     *  -    -
SA _InOACT
flkctm bftci                FROK-    -      --    
%SdV & MlWKWSW4W TWrPQ       FRWRML          -        -        ---           -           --    -------------
f0ablOrrmi of O-  --                       -   R  -L-
____________  : ::  :z   : : ::::: :- -- -- 



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production (Table 3.1) due
to the project's implementation was derived from illustrative farm models. The
farm models (Table 3.2) take into account the present low level of production and
likelihood of only simple investments being made by farmers. The internal
financial rate of return ranges from 23% to 48%; however, the incomes to be
derived are not exaggeratedly high. The projected increases in crop yields are
shown in Table 3.3. Agricultural production would be increased through a
combination of increased productivity and expansion of the cropped area.
Increased productivity would result mainly from increasing the cropping intensity
on irrigated lands, more widespread use of improved seeds and better cultivation
practices. The expansion of the cropped area would be possible due to the
increased use of irrigated land and animal traction. Cropping patterns are not
expected to change dramatically. In the rainfed areas more drought-resistant
crops such as short-cycle maize and grain sorghum would be introduced. In areas
benefiting from irrigation, farmers are expected to increase the proportion of
more profitable cash crops such as vegetables. Expansion of both cattle and goat
herds would occur mainly from improved animal husbandry and better feeding
resulting from increased use of artificial pastures (such as buffel grass), cactus
and legume fodder trees (algaroba). At full development (Year 12) the annual
incremental production generated by the project is estimated to be US$54 million
(in November 1985 farm-gate prices), with three-fourths of the incremental value
of production resulting from crops and one-fourth from animal products.
Incremental production is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as
Pernambuco's present production does not meet demand. Production would be
marketed through existing channels and the project would attempt to increase small
farmers' competitive position by improving market information and providing
training in post-harvest techniques.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes considerably.  More
importantly, it would give greater food security by reducing the impact of the
effects of droughts. Because current sources of supplemental income, such as
off-farm work, have not been taken into account, the difference between present
incomes and project incomes may be overstated by the models. The latter suggest
that net annual family farm benefits, which currently range from US$115 to US$280
per capita would increase from 75% to 185% at full development. The expansion of
agricultural activities alone would create new on-farm opportunities equivalent to
about 34,000 man-years annually. Most of this demand would be for unskilled labor
that would be met with family labor. However, many small rural community
subprojects would also generate demand for local employment, possibly of a
semi-skilled nature.



- 39 -
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be about 13%
with a 20-year analysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for the economic analysis is
based on four elements: (a) all Pernambuco project costs, except those related to
studies, water supply systems, forestry, fishing, wholesale marketing facilities
and stocks and community development component or 69% of total state project
costs; (b) 10% of regional administration costs financed under the Northeast Rural
Development I Project; (c) 13% of regional research costs financed under the
Northeast Rural Development Project I and III Projects (this percentage is equal
to the proportion of Pernambuco's rural population within the Northeast's rural
population); and (d) recurrent state costs on a declining basis from Years 9 to 12
and constant Year 12 costs during Years 13 to 20 to sustain the project following
the investment period.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefits 'ncluded two elements: (a)
benefits from farmers expected to use investment credit (4,085 irrigated farms and
20,000 rainfed farms) equivalent to 33% of the 73,000 farmers in the project area;
and (b) an estimate for the incremental benefits accruing to the remaining farmers
who would be reached by the extension service and who would adopt improved farming
practices without using formal credit (25% of the remaining 48,915 farmers). No
benefits were included from the fisheries or social forestry components because
they are too small to have any substantial weight when compared to on-farm
benefits.
5.        Economic prices at the farr-gate were derived for the main traded goods
including maize, rice, cotton and chemical fertilizers, taking into account
international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing and handling costs
with price trends projected according to those estimated by the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projection Department at 1985 constant prices (Table 3.5). Beans,
sorghum, cassava, cow peas, and goat meat were valued at financial farm-gate
prices. All other outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted by the
standard conversion factor (0.83) to account for domestie price distortions.
6.        Project benefits would need to fall by 16% or project costs rise by 19%
before the rate of return would fall below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of
capital. Also, a lag of three years in achieving project results, such as might
occur during a severe drought, would result in a 10% rate of return (Table 3.6).



-40                                           ANN- 3
VAM-.1
RAZIL
R 3L L T  PJM           EUS
loEEFASf UPOL RDE irN   V PErJEcT (PEXD)
Total nmal Area id Prohetlm  of Major 2oi!s and Livestodc
Witbout Project aid at i1u  Developqnt
Withxe Project          At Fub ll e1oat                 InCetad
Crops and Livestock           Area         Prodmction     Area    Productiao      Area    Pr<xlctim    value
G(O)         (tons)         (ba)      (tens)       (ha)      (toes)    (US$0O)
Beans                         18,695        11,100       31,190      26,045       12,495    14,945     3,530
Castor Beans                   2,365         3,560        3,700      10,860        1,335     7,300     1,805
Cassava                       24,930       230,000       30,350    366,130         5,420   136,130     4,825
Cotton                        29,910        10,285       46,825      20,060       16,915     9,775     3,520
Cowpeas                       18,825        10,455       25,775      22,505       6,950    12,050      5,560
Maize                         12,515        18,180       20,995     40,160        8,480    21,980      2,225
Grain Sorghun                      -             -        5,615      20,215        5,615    20,215     1,590
Banana                             -             -        3,010     51,650        3,010    51,650      3,310
Cabbage                        1,150         9,160        2,135      33,610         985    24,450      1,180
Carrots                            -             -          110      2,495          110      2,495       320
Coffee                         7,010         4,910        7,010      9,110            0      4,200     1,655
COrons                             -             -        3,450      31,500       3,450    31,500      2,535
Tomatoes Processing              S10        10,690        2,135      63,640        1,625    52,950     1,785
Tamstoes - Table               1,400        44,860        1,400     56,080            0    11,220        735
Peppers                            -             -          705      28,040         705    28,040      4,290
Rice                               -             -        3,760      13,160       3,760    13,100      1,695
Total Crops                  117,310                     188,165                  70,855              40,560
Native Pasture                84,360             -       42,280                  (42,080)
Improved Pasture               4,398             -      140,340                  135,942
Billy Goats (hd.)                  -             -            -     42,690            -    42,690        340
Female Goats (hd.)                 -             -            -     28,460            -    28,460        320
Ckll Fe3Il Goats (hd.)             -             -            -      14,230           -    14,230        160
Goat MlMk (000' liters)            -         5,690            -      22,245           -    22,245      2,980
Bf Steers (ld.)                    -             -            -     18,710            -    18,710      3,545
Dil Cc1 (hi.)                      -                          -      12,395           -    12,395      1,875
Gow Milk (000' liters)             -        20,500            -     47,260            -    26,760      3,010
Hney (tons)                        -             -            -       1,145           -      1,145     1,590
Total Livestock                                                                                       13,82D
Total Crops and Livestodr                                                                             54,380
April 4, 1986



NMW5T MRA e                  PM
1SwAsr MEAL Wff- V PM= rmw4EJa)
Oarteritica of IlTtrative Farm Mleis Used in F          dAl ar Enmic Analsis
Years to
Eatliuted                                                                        Not FAstly Farm B¢fits        12w-          Axl           Retumn Fr day labor
Yodel No.  Distribution    SiP              Fam       _ani                       Climate       WD          Project    I j Pect  c  Lr   Delopint   1   Proiect    W1 Proect    (oeer 20 years)
of FaOrs       (to)    Type        Livestock        ocati                                                                                       e                            2
1          11,23D         23      Rsinfed     Goats           Sertao         Semi-Arid           941         1,960        1,019         5              5.27           5.17              36
2           11,450         10     Rainfed     Peef/lMLk       Agreste         Seed-mikd          576         1,522          946         4              4.12           4.98              28
3           2,545         3D      Raidned     Beef/mIlk       Agreate        SeoI-fItdd        1,260         2,241          981         5              4.06           4.58              23
4           7,010          3      Rainfed/       -            Agr-te         Humid HIlls         654         1,311          657         6              5.01           4.83             53
Coffee
5           1,C35          71/  Public        Beeft/itk       Agreste        Seoddvbsd           717         2,349        1,632         4              4.04           4.45             60        s
Irrigated
loIte      36,320 2/
I/ of %Alch 2 hI is irrigated.
21  Equivalent to 35X of te target platton    % IU receive insttitutiomalized credit
plum 2S of the reauirer who  will aiipt improved tecoa.   using otbtr saraas of credit.
Febnry 10, 1986
"3pl



-  42  -                                         AIX 3
~~~Aza ~~~~~~~table 1.3
SAM
gMWsr ML            A     H   FJW (Pw6M931
Ytelds NW fl                  Qot  *   ar  ,am  Lvl
ZCInho  P,olec  (01        at 0   I  -ro.l,t (f.D.)
-(Ixelu)                -                      A) -tu-
SdA-*id (41de1 11           23 to
1bsps                                    1                f2',            31
PeFr,. Coct*m  2l2e                                                          2i
lt. ,-n                                                  II               29
tascor~ ~ ~ ~~~h                                   19.W .          9            ,            ,
Core*or 'rms                                              113             29
1w                                       53 t            bY.              1
5(9' -Y5
Swd4k.d Utde! 2)            1h hl
(< av.9                                                b,2Jb              29
t4                                       lb3.            21l
*tE         * to.f                                                                     1.          2,
433             3i
1                                        Ii              .)r       
t;  Frw (T9)
S-i-9i.d  (Mtol 31           9 h,.
G-                                      -,-              ,z'                             2.
t  IZS 2IS                    .
*jto     'lot,. *  Y3.,                                                                            ;
90              t,B              1.
bott-                                    31'3:                            31
C#Stxo fle                     S.l             eS               31
los,.                                    b1              81               33
bassw  BmI            f ts                                           
P-esati' TDtoeo                           21Ju L'2                          1N            ".2
%ltd 1101S (Hode, 4)         3 It
t;921es                                  13.0.          1,}13           1r1
19100' 1&oo,i  ,,f ter tepita1:r*)         -             hl.-
tff-                                       -              9'               -
t:se - It                                    3.       3
maim                                     (AL              75v             .
CtMo                                    5,              ,Ff               31
ess,'s                                   101              I5              1
_Ih,. ll                                                                   -
0ovIs, PePpp-                                             12.0.               -                          I
T.bb. TQsCse                             32,11           .1i                 .2'          '.. 
PUbli,  Gso1ry   rlp.Eted 11d0.,4 5) 7tn
C    o rv. .ll1                                            -               -
tPrt<n, * te* lear                                                                                     I
hat2e                   .1"                              r5 31 
-s                                       33             4_3 
CoO9a3 QoCei
l3os&a4.01,                                             9.2-1       
C_                                      * I,s             ,2               29
ImIgated AI - 2 lu
1t1. C Ab                                                2r .9                -                         ,
1n-g. Prw#tm9 Tsmst,                                          X               -                        .35
lni*. r,.t,                                              29.902               -            -             1
IrrEg. Pepper                                           1s13                                           j
PtvJ9   SprlkUTr Irr12otW  l(rdel b) I1,a
t,* -                                                                                        1.5
m,w,,                                  1,9.            5Z'I               v
1     .    t.,                           :7              2h3              29
Wajgo                                    IIS,              9              1'
Otopeowo                                  9.             11             2&
C. f1 ra    +    *1  (".5
t lttor llass                            S'J               -               -
ld . . 2 ha
Itrig. B,as                                     -          13. '1               -           '
iTlg. Prpe                                                       .                                      'j
I101g. _ t O -
j_~                                             ,          23 ,3                -
C-                                              ',           1Ž9                -
lt,g  Prootoo. ' 1ta                                       3. .01Ž              -           ':,
)elmsuy 10, 1199f



NmaME     ma    ELNIIENT MaII   v (EU C)
Pt&Jsc ECmmict Alplns
fin WilliaM  et CtI im no @ wUi t 195)
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        6       9       to      t1      12       13      14       i5      16       17      16       19      20
Fll K\ lEITS
6M   CIM3 11SfITS                             4U    10 50375 M        l4311  £82932  2602M     34804  4157  452         461  4           4884     4i6    419672  489672  497   4967248672  489672  486
MMSS 0U-FAIN CUTS                           3m476   7U68   ii2221   £7       223i01  232351  260    63     2694  2 8   2796   28417   2923  292191    24                    7102  2724   21D   269   V10M5
TOTAL O N-V   IN 259TN   KST  WITS   -2M9    -56778  -63143  -59734  -4086t    7684    1195  148M02   191034  210120  205470  2042105  1"46   196653  20426  2                     217425  21799   22174  211077
Zzn_   azts  oxm   obt5: S:-IICu   taas    mom  as' _ 1&== amo  soaz                                 SOnesms lasax    -4       =- 1; annm4163                    ex
IRRIGATION                                  20718   18278   £8904   14216    7154    4584    4465    4US    363          2791    1953    1116    1116    1114   U11          1U     1116    1116    116U   1116
NIESWN                                       4260    3200   4810    535    3464    5470    5470    53    434             3340    233    1336    1336                336    333A     2 133    tD36    233      133
SEAD AI WTLE fL      TITOW                    632     953    1147    1119   £119    1119                111t i    09      700     40        0      280.   230       260      280     210      2D0     280      30
EXTEISION                                   26797   31642   30277   30765   31969   3227   33153    3          269t    20721   14350      OM      OM3    82        O8        2      O        12N     I2       8M
NMTIIO                                        ON      970      631     797      m       797      m m             5" 39     61     322      184     184      184     134    t1        184      14 I    t4       tlU
m60mECT 4I1IlE!MUIU1                        11669   12878   12531   12325   i57   126          1253   1257?   £0221    7862    55         3145    3t45    3145   315    3145         145    J145 3t145    314
TAU"1111                                     5264    5078    462    476        4717     60       u7 59           482      271     259      148    t1                1        1U      14      t1      1t        148
REf  5AL NA"   CIIIUNIl                      927    12180    23           -       -       -
1165563.L 313140 1                           4618    1420    1420        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       _       _        .       _        _       _        _        _       _
3i1E815     3S*30  III                       19m21    1147    1031    105       960     952      942       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -                -       -       -        -
TOTAL PtolCt C0tS                           36091   7976   77048   70576   64W     5152   59141   5 9   476   36243   25370   14497   1447   1447   1497   147   14W7   1447   1497   149
~~~_   e _                                                                                                 _            sX *s * _     _   S-_                                                        II#    s  "s_ 
lTotL  lMT              AL EI  EW    llS  -116  8-t138154-40891 -130362 -15606  -30S66   3254   9O3   14318  173937  t1800   t17                 672  182156  136929   18073  231X   2493  27377  204080
bvil 3. 1986 16113



-  44  -                        ANNEX 3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT V (PERNAMBUCO)
Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in Constant November 1985 Prices)
Selected Products         Unit            Financial          Economic
1986      1985
Cow Peas                  per kg.            4,000         4,000      4,000
Beans                     per kg.             2,100        2,100      2,100
Maize                     per kg.               900         1,530     1,717
Rice                      per kg.             1,145         1,545     2,172
Sorghum                   per kg.               700           700       700
Cotton                    per kg.             3,200         2,380     4,275
Cassava                   per kg.               315           315       315
Castor Beans              per kg.             2,200         1,826     1,826
Goat Meat                 per kg.             9,500         9,500     9,500
Selected Inputs
Urea                      per kg.             1,959         2,105     2,878
Triple Superphosphate    per kg.              3,140         2,096     2,256
Potassium Chloride        per kg.             2,330         1,616     1,794
Source: Bank Mission



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST lJRA. DEVSLOPNENT PROGRJI
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVEWPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
iroj.ce8Senstivity Aaialyal.
INTERI. RATES OF RFTM  IF PET STAS
222225:3z#  .32252 #ag    Z3I5:SS 3S ZZZZ:22S
STOT      UW OX         i P202      UP0O         MZ10       Wof20?    DU  502  I-AG 2I YARL A  2 YEARSLMIYEARS
C7OT               12.75       13,704      14.526       t60525       11tt73       10o3          5.42       11.686       10.733       9.907
UW 102             11.839       12.76S      13*627       15,690       10,767        9.537        4.337       10.'96        9.899       9.125
IP 20Z             10.955       11.922       12.785      14.903        9.861        6.609        3,327        9.970        9.I12        8.404
UP 502              9.609        9.625      10.535       12.75         7.463        6.156        0.64         7.7M         7,110        6.5l.9
BOnl 10t           13.802      14.696       15.489       17.414       12.M         11.612        6.612       12.4w        11.442      10.761
NJW 202            14.903       15.764      16.525       18.36        13.920       12.785        7.910       13.701       12.639       11.702
DOUI 502           18.487       19.5381     20,25        21.685       18.041       17.074       1276         17.'82       16.388       15.295
tA6 1EA                 -            -            -            -            -           -            -       12.785       11.6U        10.733
LAO 2 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -                                             12765        11.66 
LAS I V                 -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -       12.78M
SWITCHIING KIES AT II1
APPRAISAL    SVITICNN6    PERCEIMTAE
STREAN                  VALUE         VUALE         CoAnE
MTOT               517P202.83   432#883.85         -16.301
CTOT               432t.883,85   St7202.83          19.48?
Net Present Vilue at oCC 11t2   84a 319                                                                                                                  0 |
Itternal Rate of Relurn z 1'.92
Coupwe Esuavalent RaLe of Retumn 13.72
April 4, 1986



-  46  -                       ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTNEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT V PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
-  World Bank Report 3938-BR, "Rural Development Programs for
Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment," February 7, 1985.
-  World Bank Report 5350-BR, "Northeast Rural Development I Project
(Sergipe)," March 12, 1985.
-  World Bank Report 5349-BR, "Northeast Rural Development II Project (Rio
Grande do Norte),' April 8, 1985.
-  World Bank Report 5360-BR, "Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project," May 31, 1985.
-  World Bank Report (Green Cover) 5709-BR, 'Northeast Rural
Development III Project (Bahia)," July 16, 1985.
2.   SUDENE:
- Project Analysis Report on Pernanbuco State Rural Development
Plan, "Programa do Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural," August 1985.
3.   State Government of Pernambuco:
-  Volume I       - Program Summary
-  Volume II      - Characteristics of the State of Pernanbuco
-  Volume III     - The Rural Sector
-  Volume IV      - The Small Rural Farmer
Appendix I   - Statistics
-  Volume V       - The Project Concept
-  Volume VI       - Land
Appendix I   - Working Notes
-  Volume VII     - Water Resources
Appendix I   - Working Notes
-  Volume VIII    - Extension
Appendix I   - Working Notes
-  Volume IX       - Research
Volume X       - Marketing
-  Volume XI       - Rural Credit
-  Volume XII      - Support to Small Rural Communities
Appendix I   - Working Notes
-  Volume XIII    - Farm Model
Appendix I   - Sertao
Appendix II  - Agroste
Appendix III - Se.ras Unidas
-  Volume XIV     - Total Project Cost
4.   COBAL:  "Centrais de Servicios" - Recife, Caruaru, Arco Verde
5.   EMATER-PE:  "Reforestamento Social" - Recife
6.   IBRD, SUDENE and State Government of Pernambuco: "Minutes of
Understanding," November 1985.
7.   IBRD Supplementary Staff Working Papers:
1. Water Supply
2. Irrigation
3. Support to Small Rural Communities
4. Marketing



48                                     44                                    40
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZILj
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
( !                          NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                      B R A Z 1 L   NORA
(  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~REGION
PARA                                          YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS
SAO
2  ';p °                         X                                            SSouth   A m e r c a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S           S Jndce.tefrn            ' B  r ontino                        *R/4IA ,   4
i  ° J.                .            ,Pd    ' eC,n,,,
!  /  -                    * ~~~~           ~~               ~~Go~P  /  
0
7                     '"'o                              ~~~~~~~~CEARA
t   /             M                                 TBMShMAR ANHAO   P
t~~~~~~~~~~~ ..}                                 (gg -  lt'U.,,.                                     02.   'u.r .  R 0      DE<4A
X.         O                                                  \   o               °  oJoP'Ud° f   DRIO  GRANDE
Re~~.ro~~oc    ~                       DO NORTE
I oP0\[{ll*RlTs~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0gg4014Cxe i
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,0   P,c .A- ,o )                                                  , 
(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6$AJOAC)
°,Lr,.,no  O       >       ,,tuPARAIBA ,0  1 PSSOA
PlAUI
IS   _v m   i                                          ?             o>tIqwstv °s"-eFfU)h¢.df   h  cOu< 2  J3      e-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?  ~/~~~
J05.o d., P.-             -PERNAMBUCO   P



!                                     , /                 ,ffl,i,s  8                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r tO2  '-oF
0 J < \( 5O,s;' / w r. iOtOniua ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dcP1PP5
V                                               /t   11.4*o                                  PKC les.  Q;5t@.C<obie0t
l    t .        g                           t                      °5(enfr S-^                                        \   ~~~~~\ '~             ALAGOAS
!    N                ,                                                         R w"ru do Ptndo      '   ,         ~~~~~~~~~~~~SERGIPE
/           o                                  Jor. t.,^¢l                      ^ °      >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)ARACA;.U
zJ~~~~~~7                                          BAHIA oAt<+s 2
?~~                        ~       ~~~~~~~~~ ,"  Oku-. d,l i, .S.                                                         .......*utatti
0Mtuo                                                 ',AIVAiD0
|G01  AS                     9           ib5rm do V.wo o0 V.".tt                                                                                     Projeact ,Boundary
)                                              Olrflffi                                  iLa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tnd adjudication:
I  \>          t"-?                                                       .                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year 1
t     >      5           /             <~~ J-  <s                            Ov   s,( ,,tU,,+,, ItoDunuV  O o0A                  Year 2
]  ( '  X  2                               >                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year 3
, _ )    g   9   ~ ~     ~              > L                 Oionioll;tn                        -^~       Land adjudication under
j                       JaStotio \0                                                                                     other fprojects
? F . D . 8  \            OJonesubu  OR¢OP<HK xteM.r.l. .~~~~~~~~~~ Nuclei Centers
2 5 iBRASIIIA%s                                                                                                                               'a)    State Capitals
S                                                                        .              cl o                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
**sX1/X~~~~~~~~~~~ 1;t<:ktixe r  Mnl*(l¢  Stote Boundaries
R ,,,,,,,,,,0, v {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nternational Boundaries
e.j+ erwo * {4x¢NZWZ> .... /MINAS                               GERAIS 
+ 17.e.lrr ... otwf,tEl;wr.^S7^.j- ........ \ \' ~~~~~0                                                           100         200        300 KiLOMETERS
>,  ,. .... , .. ,, * . j i-SPIRIT0 ' 1) 100 200~~~~~~O                                                                                          MILES t:
< .,,,>,, .... ,,,* , ~~~~~~~~~~SANTO \{
fs]        ~48    1                                          44                                               4[,                                               36v1°
(rb . y . . . . .. . . . \ . . ... _ _ .... _ .__ .. ._ ... ... . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _ . _ _ _. _ . ........... . . _ __ _ ...... _ _ .__ Cr~~~~~~~~~~~43



2                                                     7~~~~~~~ 
/                C    F-    A      R      A 
P  I A  U
A Ovo-,t O 9m_nSe
/ \ / ~~~~~ernam m ;c    
S  T e qa W /                    -areia Nlo a"
.^ s s et ~~~~~-)                                                                - do Bpmotses  -
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s't                                                  -. -         'Calurnb6la-   a
-~ "~                   y                     K0                                       De- a UrOO_  ;
I                                                      -A I  L
~-s--<^ -) P    .NORTHEASTF RURAL DEVELOPM/ENT PROGRAM    h
?>-Si-      ~>;' iNortheast Rural Develcipment V  Project (Pernambuco)    .
S                                        ~~~~~~~~~PR!0RIlTY AREAS                               t
ospar_ta Cer!ers 
Resea-cr F:e-.l StaT.,Dns                      x 
PrN or its D4reasnt
-- R,(Penabucj'
-     eSe&rte Ca entaes
C    Towens eMuniccpaF   apSta s
"t.zo  ' s                                   Se~~~~~~~~~~reont*  reads 
* tsunicpai Bounda,es
,,, -.                                                      pState   Boundaries
r.- ;^, ,                                    . . -rlil tnatiema Boundar,es
.71   .
.                                  4--                  ;8 ,,e
41                                4C                                                                    38



IBRD 1957
RIO GRANDE DO NORTF \                             34                                      j-
7-
P    A    R    A                  i    B    A
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rna1ih' r bO °  a,
ha  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CjSti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jd~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Cumr  -et                                 %ma8
na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
}a~         \        lPadtraon, ~     r! i  .~   Cano 0t 1''.      t    ' .*, Jg&            S Joe ,acooaGan1
, 0   yA  L          Gose  0J     A. Jo
5-         .r -i,a  _-]5,         ..                                                       -      c4ca .
rt   V                     e,   e-dA*steK  WAO 42.lra>gat -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pv,st
, v <2ala.,b<R>toritaina g pru ) > s;oltR° °^trS3~~~~~~RECIFE
*   )                                      ________=  A w   G raaa
PC eRIOa                                                 P, p- verr
8ralo ardsn   /SaoJaotquun do  Guabr; aZ .           ;  c
coe     QPdr S1aoha         Cachorw.am   Agres,ri        Bonito                  (
-7>Stt x t t-      t         r~~~~~~~~~~S& SdBento do    ALt} /                     8*a 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&  Be                                       up,5     detuoa\  mk<g G r er    G Bna --SL I OhaLr-
, 1 JDanatn~~"ga         /                u Jp G!s,fPla* QAu rt 
*as<~~ _Q(/\t a /~ ParanatarIn                                                                             -Jooth   bS JosE da Coroa Grande
A <    g,as 8slas    ;             iO^e
~~~\<  .                                                     e M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kACEIO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, 6 1A
S E  G iP    E       --ece
g                            A                   ;   t   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bas.i             !
R                 |        t        * ffi -Fos         .      iWa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARCIi 1986



41'                                                40                                                 39                                                 3a
C    E   A   R   A                                                                                       F
I                                                         )                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
P  !A  U  i                       /\
to Pcs           *        -          -;                              t.zer o-7r                                      fi
4     oOsAripina    \
Sitio da  aorer_
Ipubi                                                         .
Tr         Granit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                                                                ruf
S Joa t&o Belmonte               ,      Flo,
Verd  nte                      'O~~~~~~~Calulobi
Serra Tafhad_a__,__-
ltgve4        Mm~tandib4 Pe         oI n       i       7
5  to Fe-ra Cie na
Petrotina
*  .4 At                                     ~~~~~~B R A Z I L
to Juazei'            NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Northeast Rural Development V Project (Pernambuco)
Agricultural Potential Defined by Dependable Rainfall                                                         k
lsohyets in mm
Rivers
,Hargreaves '9:4                                          '      State Capital                       97
C'ass 1ia o'     Des'r,pi'o-                                         o      Towns iMunicipat Capitalsi              5,
lery ar, c        ,! su tci!    1 d le.1 --le,,  -_                        Selected Roads
mal:  be-i pr Pepare r,                                                                                                      Muncipal Boundaries
1wo,o 1ank s staf e-~ J.                         A                 L    .iaX    -     -a --i aq'O.. 'e
ehe co,,nwence of toe                                                                                               -    -    State Boundaries
lers a. 8s erls C t f' tV i"                      Se'a -aro        Prosa-loe ooss oe o' o-oos 'eo,    2
nat ese ot The Word Ba-c                                           3 tc 4 r-DrthS g'c. rg Seaso-
Me kitenaftona;f.Faoce                                             PLocCt.O' COSS  i  'c :V^                        ---      Inte'nat,onal Bojndaries
3oraton The de-zr'a'ors                           WelD',            e  r,,5 a gmo2 o"e. o r"is-'r
I and the boui da'es StO*'                                         aoeq,ac, t.'- ^ 5  - 'x'-e -"ths
iS meap do not r.4 o- tMe
of The Worid Bana ana tOe
naionai Friee Corps'a'?o'
iadmgnet on the lega ta! a50                                                                     100                                         200
cy te..fory Or any                                                          I
)-seie.n! or acceopta^ce a'                                                                  Ki,ometers
I bo,,danes
41'                                                40                                                39=                                               38



RIO GRANDE D  NORTE                                                                 IBRD 19578
A       R      A        i      B       A                                                    ooPso          - 
A  R  A                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JOAO PES,SOAC@
to Jtoar.
S Tetanha 
Jg  \  :'  .ItaNitim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tat
T ,, /   , jf  5 Jose dD                                                      , +w  ga       tambe r    Pessoa
/00,                                                                    Ma~aParana     mbanba o1aj
~~~                                                      Machado~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  Itaouit,na.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iara,c
ad t=maracat
W Q W             ;--rS  Ctb sio  2                 4        5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gai.ho  B aDAJho  
Sermnta <aba                                            nhoe                  do / ialtae     a
l'  I   \   \         4          \>aJPe rJeyt   Bezerros        i=~~~~(f                   RECIFE 
.>   t   ;  k   - r   =   ffao A_Car  n  Ma o q9!,
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lg.h                   Ca         AgreiS> ao n          Mara)               ucua   
CUSt6dt~~~~  8art~~nia                           Fre AA .1..e.rihopan  to eleria  e8  rotang  :E E
/As Z jZo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Forrnoso|
l*:mIrm  A     P5 Belarao,a                                                    r oteOe
tJost Ona Coroa Grante
to Macimo
A  L  A G O  A  S
.MACE10
36 v                tta3A
V~~~~~~ 
J   S  E  R  G   I P  E                                      ! -                                    ece
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' '        1f"vA-.-Ba ta
J7                                  I              s0
I   ~ ~ ~ ~            C     CCC~~~~MARCh- 1986



