Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i/) >72?;-6X7
Report No. P-4327-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$92.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FIFTH NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 22, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcidal duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             '       Cr$8,891 1/
US$1.00             '       Cz$13.80 TFrebruary 28, 1986) 2/
Cz$1.00            -        US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986) 2/
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                  -    January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  -   April 1 to March 31
Project                               a    April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1985)
2/ A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro
will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued
against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREvIATIONS
CAGEP           Companhia Agricola de Pernambuco
(State Warehouse Company of Pernambuco)
CD              Community Development
CEASA           Central de Abastecimento de Pernambuco
(Central Marketing Organization of Pernambuco)
COBAL           Companhia Brasileira de Alimeritos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CPATSA          Centro de Pe2quisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
EMATER-PE       Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
de Pernambuco
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA         Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
IC              Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
LDP             Local Development Project
MINTER          Ministerio do Ir.terior
(Ministry of the Interior)
NRDP            Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE    Programa de Desenvolvimento de  Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of
the Northeast)
RDC             Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAPE            Secretaria de Agricultura de Pernambuco
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEPLAN          Secretaria de Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiznts only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- 2 -
SIMA            Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SRDC            Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE          Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU              Technical Unit of the State's Secretariat of Planning



BRAZIL
FIFTH NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PERNAMBUCO)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing
Agency:         A Technical Unit (T.U.) of Pernambuco's Secretariat of
Planning for coordination of all State and Federal agencies
participating in the Pernambuco Rural Development Plan.
Amount:         US$92.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 73,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 118 municipalities of the State of Pernambuco
would directly benefit from the project. A larger number
of families would also benefit from the water supply,
community development, fisheries and marketing components.
Proj ect
Description: ' The proposed project is the fifth in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP)
designed to increase the efficiency and impact of rural
development efforts.  The project objectives are to: (a)
increase agricultural production and productivity in the
State of Pernambuco; (b) generate employment opportunities
for low-income farm families; (c) increase Pernambuco's
institutional capacity to provide efficient agricultural
services for small farmers; and (d) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to
decrease small farmer vulnerability to recurring droughts.
It would support water resource development for both
agricultural and domestic use, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, investment credit, marketing
services, funding for community subprojects and project
administration and training.
Risks:          Project risks include:  (a) possible inefficient delivery
of project services; (b) lack of sufficient
inter-institutional cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls
in counterpart funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and
(e) recurring drought conditions. The project has been
designed to minimize these risks.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
---US$ Millions -
A.  Water Resource Development               14.7         3.0         17.7
B.  Agricultural Research                     7.2         0.1         7.3
C.  Agricultural Extension                   36.5         0.9        37.4
D.  Rural Investment Credit                  42.2         7.4        49.6
E.  Marketing Services                        4.4         0.8         5.2
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities    23.3            3.3        26.6
G.  Project Administration and Training   16.1            0.8         16.9
Total Baseline Costs                           144.4        16.3        160.7
Physical Contingencies                           1.3         0.4          1.7
Price Contingencies                             25.0         1.0         26.0
Total Project Cost                             170.7        17.7        188.4 1/
~__- -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
_~US$ Millions
Government                                      96.4          -          96.4
IBRD                                            74.3        17.7        92.0
TOTAL                                          170.7        17.7        188.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY     1987 2/   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
USA Millions-
Annual        9.0      12.0   14.8   16.4   16.2   12.4    7.8    2.5    0.9
Cumulative   9.0       21.0   35.8   52.2   68.4   80.8   88.6   91.1   92.0
Rate of Return:  13%
Map No. IBRD 19577
1/ Including about US$5.7 million of local taxes.
7/ Including initial deposit of US$4.0 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$92.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE FIFTH NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$92.0
million to help finance the Fifth Northeast Rural Development Project. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and anti-
poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, re-
negotiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with de-lining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trnde. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrow-
ing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more than
doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total obligations of
approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The efforts to
redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong internal pressures
and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to external
shocks, and when further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980,
and international interest rates increased, the current account deficit
more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to
110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistance of
the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,



very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2Z in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s-when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital irflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still iuhlibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by 6%. Open unemployment
declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers. Agriculture
expanded by an estimated 8.82, contributing both to the balaace of payments
and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by the new
Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly 12% a
month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate to 235%. Externally, the
trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion, che current account deficit
was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage setrlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these
industries, and Federal Government salaries were also increased to
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was



- 4 -
aimed at reducing interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign
financing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Goveroment
securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312% for Mi, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14%
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. Taxes were
increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a more radical comprehensive-program to stop inflation was
being prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a
temporary price freeze on goods and services; an exchange rate set at



- 5 -
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to infjation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by a continued effort to reduce the
fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible,
reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was
introduced. Initial political and public reactions have been highly
positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth. Nevertheless, GDP growth is expected
tn be substantial, even with below-normal agricultural growth due to the
recent drought. The exchange rate remains competitive; previous mini-
devaluations against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar relative
to the currencies of Brazil's other trading partners, have resulted in a
15-20% fall in the real effective exchange rate since early 1985. The
February 28 wage adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade
surplus remains a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be
carefully monitored, the economic outlook has been substantially improved
by the measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong
Brazilian performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic outlook for Brazil is thus encouraging,
assuming the maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable
success in the implementation of the new stabilization package, and the
present determination to reduce the public sector deficit. A focus on
further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, improved resource
allocation and increased savings and investment will be required if annual
GDP growth rates are to remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore
living standards and generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected
by the recent recession.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1X drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in
March with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls
over 1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on thib
debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about



- 6 -
20% of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging about 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign financing. Brazil's
net medium- and long-term financing needs are projected to average US$3.6
billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount, approximately US$2
billion would be needed annually from commercial banks, which would result
in a gradual reduction in commercial bank exposure in Brazil in real
terms.  With these moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's
total medium- and long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of 3.8% from
1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of international inflation.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 69% of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to 52% in 1990. Similarly,
the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985,
is projected to decline to 2.6 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt service payments
will remain high. Interest payments alone would be equivalent to 24% of
exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985. Therefore, Brazil
will need to continue rescheduling its commercial bank debt until the end
of the decade, unless it can obtain new foreign resources in excess of its
net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements. With such rescheduling,
continuation of its adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments
performance, and moderate infusion of new foreign financing, Brazil's
long-term prospects are good.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, annual disbursements averaged
US$155.0 million, and US$285.0 million during FY76-81, reaching US$472.0
million in FY82, US$764.0 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and
US$1,054.5 million in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986
was US$3,687.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annuel Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 five loans have
been approved; they are: a small towns improvement project in the amount of
US$24.5 million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0
million; an irrigation engineering project for US$48.0 million; a
metropolitan urban development projec, for US$55.0 million; and a second
agricultural extension project for US$155.0 million. A Northeast Health
project, for US$57.0 million, is scheduled to be considered by the
Executive Directors on May 22, 1986. Work is advanced for a second
agricultural sector project; an agricultural credit project; a power sector
project; several projects in the Northeast region including four other
rural development projects and an irrigation project; and a public sector
management project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1Z.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a difficult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5%. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8%. The
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. The Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to



support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the mobilization and
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and financing of a higher share of
project costs. Also, greater use is being made of Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance th2 Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in eupport of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the glow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure. Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies. Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrowing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of tite lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban transport
in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost



- 9 -
housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan areas, in
medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
p;oject and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending for integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in Lhe Northeast of Brazil will support the
Government's objectives t, further alleviate poverty, by addressing the
region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional
institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for
urban development will address ways to improve urban services and
infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of
municipalities, particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward
self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water
supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services
to rural areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending
will continue to strengthen financial and administrative institutions while
also increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast. The proposed project, the fifth in a second
generation of rural development projects in the Northeast, would have a
considerable impact on rural poverty (para. 44) and is intended to support
the rural development plan in the State of Pernambuco.
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at the Federal level will be submitted soon to the Executive
Directors. The Bank is also undertaking a review of public sector
investment programs and is supporting the Government's efforts to
rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570
million were arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance-of-
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving. Cofinancing could become important again in the near



- 10 -
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for high priority projects, with better financing terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%,
and 38%, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in
Brazil's agriculture (5Z per annum); during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar.
Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were
accounted for by these five crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
35.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of
Fernando do Noronha with a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the
country's total area). The Northeast has been the nation's foremost
problem region since the late 1800s.
36.       Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty
and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from
the region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983).



- 11 -
In 1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29Z of
the country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density
of 22.5 inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and
over 50% of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is
highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70X of all farms) occupy less than
6% of the farm area; forms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than
40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In 1980, over 80% of
the rural population earned less than the minimum salary (about US$675
annually, or 35% of the national average).
37.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone next to semi-arid
areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of cattle.
The sparsely populated semi-arid sertao, is the largest of the subregions
and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and to
incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE
was originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new
private investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally funded special
rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It
included the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast, and the Special Program of Support for
Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones. The second approach was
concerned with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several
parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use Program, the Semi-Arid
Tropics Research Program and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well
as large federal public irrigation projects.
40.       Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new
initiative is to be implemented through a series of sectoral projects in
such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and
integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a comprehensive regional policy



- 12 -
framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines, and multi-year state rural
investment plans and the integration of all rural special programs under
unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
41.       The Bank has made 35 loans, totaling US$2,248.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricul-
tural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; supplemental financing
for US$30.5 million, under the Special Action Program; three loans for
US$519.2 million, for agroindustries; two, for US$60.5 million, for live-
stock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two, for US$100 million
for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for agricultural exten-
sion; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement; and 22, totalling
US$862.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects in the Northeastl/, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and
Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto Turi Land
Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised settler
incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas of
environmental protection, community organization, and strengthening of
cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that, despite implementa-
tion delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsisrence to commercial
agriculture.
42.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved
from 1976 to 1983, six of the projects are still being executed and the
other four have been substantially completed. Implementation has improved
over the years, especially in project planning and agency coordination.
All projects have experienced implementation and disbursement delays mainly
because of the unusually severe 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local
funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation
activities and initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant
technology for small farmers. These problems have been addressed during
the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Pernambuco
43.       Location and Natural Features.  Pernambuco has 98,300 km2 and
has only one major river, the Sao Francisco River. Pernambuco's zona da
mata covers 10 of the State, has an abundant rainfall (up to 2,000 mm per
year), fertile soils, and is the main cultivated region. The agreste
covers 20% of the State, and rainfall ranges from 650 to 900 mm per year
with a dry period of up to seven months. The sertao covers 70% of the
State, rainfall *s below 500 mm, and irregular dry periods can last up to
ten months.
1, A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C.,1983.



- 13 -
44.       Economic and Social Conditins.  Pernambuco's 6.1 million
ilhabitants generated a GDP per capita of US$1,030 (1980), relatively high
for the Northeast. Recife, the capital, has become a marketing and
industrial hub for the entire region; however, agriculture only produces
12% of the State's GDP. About 85% of the agricultural work force earns
less than the minimum salary. Living conditions for most of the population
are still poor: infant mortality is high (100 deaths/1,000 live births) and
only 40% of the population has access to treated water and less than 10% to
sewage facilities.
45.       Land Tenure and Production.  Three-quarters of the farms are
small-scale (less than 100 ha) and occupy only 11% of the State, 4% of the
farms (those over 100 ha) occupy about 58% of the area. Over half of the
small-scale farmers are located in the agreste, and almost two-thirds of
them are landowners. Food crop production depends on these farmers;
however, output is insufficient except for cassava. Large-scale farms in
the zona da mata mostly grow sugarcane. Agricultural land use in the
sertao is relegated to extensive grazing.
46.       Agricultural Services.  A Technical Unit (T.U.) within the
State's Secretariat of Planning was created to administer and coordinate
the State's rural development programs. Agricultural research is the
responsibility of the reputable State Institute for Agricultural Research
(IPA). Agricultural extension is provided by the State Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-PE) through a network of
regional and local offices. Agricultural credit is provided through an
adequate branch network of four major banks: the Bank of Brazil, the Bank
of Northeast Brazil, the National Bank for Cooperative Credit and the State
Bank of Pernambuco. Water resource development, still at an incipient
stage, is mostly done by the State Agricultural Development Company
(CISAGRO) as are land cadastral activities. Public marketing is handled by
the Central Marketing Organization of Pernambuco (CEASA-PE).
47.       Rural Development.  The State's self-financed rural development
project, TERRA NIOSSA, concentrates on land reform. The Bank has financed
the Pernambuco Rural Development (Agreste Setentrional) Project with a loan
of US$40 million (Loan 1728-BR) signed in June 1979. Experience with the
Bank-financed project is consistent with that of other POLONORDESTE
projects (para. 42 above).  Most components of the Pernambuco project have
progressed satisfactorily, with slow disbursements due mostly to the lack
of counterpart funds. The closing date has been extended one year to
December 31, 1986, when the area would be incorporated into the proposed
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
48.       The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support
poverty alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of
Brazil. Common problems detected in the on-going projects (para. 42



- 14 -
above), skewed patterns of land ownership and the experience gained by
SUDENE and state institutions, convinced both Government and the Bank that
a unified regional and sectoral approach was needed.
49.       In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP. In April 1985, as part of the Program, the Bank
approved the Northeast Rural Development I and II Projects (Loans 2523-BR
and 2524-BR) for the States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte. In addi-
tion to supporting the Sergipe Rural Development Plan, the first project
established the structure and operating procedures for regional program
planning, coordination and research to support all ten Northeast state
rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) that finances land
regularization and cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states.
Projects for the States of Bahia and Piaui are expected to be submitted for
Board approval shortly. Projects for the States of Maranhao and Ceara have
already been appraised, and the three remaining projects for the States of
Alagoas, Paraiba and Minas Gerais are being prepared for Bank appraisal.
50.       Preparation of the Pernambuco project was carried out by the
T.U. (para. 46 above) with assistance from SUDENE, the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, and the Bank. The project was appraised by the Bank
in November 1985, and negotiations took place in May 1986. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Mrs. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of
Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6118-BR) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III provides other key
project data.
Priority Areas
51.       Based on the relative concentration of small farmers and on the
existence of an underdeveloped agricultural potential, the T.U. selected
118 of Pernambuco's 167 municipalities as priority areas for development.
Emphasis was put on the agreste region (Map IBRD 19577).
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity in the State of
Pernambuco; (b) generate employment opportunities for low-income farm
families; (c) increase Pernambuco's capacity to provide efficient agricul-
tural services to its small farmers; and (d) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease small
farmer vulnerability to recurring drought. The project would benefit an
estimated 73,000 low-income farm families. The project components are
described below.
53.       Water Resource Development.  This component would include:
(a) construction of two medium-sized state-managed irrigation schemes
totalling 550 ha of irrigated land, benefiting 275 families, and of
17 small irrigation schemes totalling 1,620 ha, benefiting about 810 farm
families; (b) studies to support the development of the State's irrigation
plan and the preparation of irrigation projects for implementation under a



- 15 -
subsequent stage of the NRDP; (c) a program of technical assistance to
strengthen the implementing capacity of state irrigation agencies;
(d) construction of 140 simple water supply systems and rehabilitation of
73 systems benefiting a total of 57,000 people in small rural communities;
and (e) stocking of 14 State-owned lakes with local fish species and
monitoring fishing activities. In addition, 6,000 ha of private irrigation
would be financed under the rural investment credit component. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that, within six
months of loan signature, it would define, with SUDENE's assistance and in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the internal structures of the
Irrigation Division in the State Secretariat of Agriculture and of
CISAGRO's Irrigation Unit; (ii) staffing requirements and staff profiles
for those agencies; and (iii) their operational linkages, and put the
preceding organizational improvements into effect.
54.       Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.  Research would
be directed towards simple technology to make farming systems more
productive and profitable. This component would include: (a) four
agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in future research
planning; (b) 730 short- and medium-term applied research trials at
experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) 12 farm-level
observation units to test and adapt integrated farm production technology;
(d) annual basic seed production on 100 ha; and (e) production and
distribution of 120 improved dairy cattle.
55.       Agricultural Extension.  This component would include:  (a) the
establishment and equipping of five local offices; (b) establishment of
about 470 demonstration plots; (c) payment of salaries and recurrent costs
for about 400 agricultural and social extension agents, about 50
subject-matter specialists and supervisory personnel and about 190
administrative staff; and (d) production of about 10 million tree
seedlings.
56.       Rural Investment Credit.  The project would finance medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments for 24,000 farmers (33% of the
73,000 direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term
production credit to be financed by the participating banks (para. 46
above). Farmers would contribute with their labor to on-farm investments
but, due to limited savings after the drought, financing would cover up to
100% of goods required for on-farm investment costs with a maximum
repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace period of three
years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha. and
automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's Manual for
Rural Credit for individual farmers, farmer associations and cooperatives
(provided 70Z of their members are small farmers who would directly benefit
frcm the investment) (see para. 69 below).



- 16 -
57.       Marketing Services.  The marketing component is designed to
increase farmers' knowledge of marketing, product grading and prices,
improve the timely provision of agricultural inputs, and help the State
establish a pilot food wholesaling service in rural areas. In order to
achieve this, the project would include: (a) expansion of the State-run
marketing information service (SIMA); (b) purchase of a mobile
classification and grading unit for vegetables, fruit and legume crops;
(c) construction of a municipal market; (d) establishment of a food
wholesale service for private retailers by the Federal Food Company
(COBAL), including the expansion of three rural service centers; and
(e) construction of three warehouses for storage of agricultural
production.
58.       Support to Small Rural Communities.  This component would
facilitate small-farmer participation in the project and create job
opportunities. The component would include: (a) creation of a community
development (CD) fund of about US$21.4 million to make grants for local
subprojects; (b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and (c) hiring and
training of 42 community development agents. EMATER-PE would be
responsible for the implementation of the component and the T.U. for
administering the CD fund. Farmers' groups would identify, plan and
execute subprojects that would encompass economic activities or community
infrastructure and would include training for community leaders. Written
proposals detailing objectives, benefits, implementation methodology, and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' appr.val. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD
fund would be established and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds would be released to beneficiary
groups prior to the signing of the agreement between the T.U. and the
groups or municipalities (in the case of unincorporated groups); and
Cc) not later than December 31, 1988, the Bank and the T.U. would review
the performance of the grants for economic subprojects to establish the
feasibility of further funding of subprojects on a loan basis.
59.       Project Administration and Training.  The T.U. has been
designated to administer, coordinate and integrate all federally-funded
rural programs under the project.  All project-related training would be
centrally coordinated by the T.U. The project would strengthen the T.U.'s
administrative capabilities by financing salaries of 60 higher level and
related sainport staff, travel expenses, office equipment, training and
other operating costs. The current administrative organization for the
ongoing project (para. 47 above) would be restructured to take account of
the proposed state-wide rural development project. During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that the T.U. would be
reorganized, staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Land Tenure Improvement
60.       Secure tenure of land is essential for sustained rural
development. The Inter-American Development Bank has successfully financed



- 17 -
a cadastral project that covered part of the State. The improvement of
land tenure conditions in the Northeast continues to be a complex task that
has justified a single, regional, Bank-ftnanced project, the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para. 49 above). Redistribution
targets, procedures for land acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary
selection were agreed as conditions for that loan. During negotiations,
the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that in the project
priority areas: (a) at least 87,000 ha would be available for
redistribution to project beneficiaries by March 31, 1988; and (b) at least
an additional 48,000 ha would be available by March 31, 1990.
Project Organization and Implementation
61.       Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission
(IC), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (MINTER)
and comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Planning, Land, and Finance, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall
policy planning and budgeting responsibility for NRDP. As regional
coordinator of the NRDP, SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to
Small Farmers receives policy backing through a regional Rural Development
Council (RDC) that includes representatives from the Northeast states.
62.       State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council
(SRDC), chaired by the Governor with the Secretary for Planning as
Executive Secretary and with up to five other State Secretaries, would
provide overall guidance for rural development activities. The day-to-day
work would be carried out by the T.U. which has its own budget, salary
structure and administrative personnel procedures. Because the unification
of the federally-funded Northeast rural special programs is important, it
would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Bank be provided with
evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
federally-funded rural special programs in Pernambuco have been unified
under the coordination of the T.U.
63.       Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the eight-year implementation
period. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be
established by SUDENE in consultation with the RDC. The T.U. would
consolidate each executing agency's detailed annual operating plans, ensure
internal consistency and submit them for approval by SRDC and SUDENE.
SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional operating plan to be
presented to the IC as the basis for the portaria (administrative
regulation) signed by the ministers and legally establishing budget
allocations for each State. During negotiations, the Federal Government
provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent
each year to the Bank for comment prior to approval; (b) the portaria,



- 18 -
the final regional operating plan and the Pernambuco State operating plan
would be sent to the Bank not later than April I of each y,ear; and (c) any
proposed changes in the planning and budgeting process would be submitted
to the Bank for comment prior to enactment.
64.       Accounts and Auditing.  Each agency would maintain its own
separate accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and
State Governments provided assurances that: (a) project accounts would be
maintained according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of
reference for the auditors would include verification of the Statements of
Expenditures and the Special Account; and (c) copies of the audit report
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of the project's
fiscal year.
65.       Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered between: (a) the T.U. and federal
agencies; (b) executing agencies, with the participation of the T.U. when
more than one is involved in executing a project component; and (c) the
T.U. or an executing agency and the concerned municipality or group prior
to construction of civil works or initiation of a community subproject.
These agreements would provide execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and funding
conditions linked to performance criteria. During negotiations, the
Federal and State Governments provided assurances that they would enter
into all necessary agreements not later than six months after loan signing.
66.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements have simplified reporting requirements and would provide
accurate and timely information for project management and annual
planning. The T.U. would receive from executing agencies monthly reports
on key physical and financial indicators and would produce quarterly
consolidated monitoring summaries. During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reportswould
be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter; (b) the T.U.'s Monitoring and Evaluation
division would be fully staffed, under conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
and (c) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost
67.       Total project costs are estimated at US$188.4 million (see Loan
and Project Summary) with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component
of US$17.7 million, or about 9Z. The total cost is based on the assumption
that all goods and services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception



- 19 -
of specialized consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about
US$5.7 million equivalent in applicable local taxes. Physical and price
contingenc'es are equivalent to 1% and 16% of baseline costs,
respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15%
for Irrigation and water supply construction; 10 for other construction;
and 5% for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies were
estimated in US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates
estimated at 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, 7.1% for
1990, and 4.0% thereafter. It was assumed that periodic local currency
devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local
inflation rates.
Financing Plan
68.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$92.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of
taxes. The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 44% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil, which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide
counterpart funds as necessary to complete the project. Funding procedures
would be those adopted for the NRDP (para. 63 above). Funds would be
channelled from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDENE tG either a specific
project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or
directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government
counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the
estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotiations, the
Federal Government provided assurances that the administrative regulation
establishing the above funding procedures (portaria) would not be changed
without Bank approval.
On-Lending Terms
69.       Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis,
to participating federal agencies and the State of Pernambuco. In the case
of agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans
disbursed by the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986
financial and monetary reform (para. 13 above), the Government decided, in
May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy for rural credit. This
policy--which would provide part of the policy framework for the proposed
Second Agricultural Sector Loan (paras. 22 and 27 above)--would be aimed at
maintaining interest rates that would be positive in real terms and would
fluctuate according to market conditions. Another important policy
objective would be to reduce credit subsidies substantially. There would
be a general agricultural interest rate, applicable to rural investment
credit operations outside the North and Northeast regions, equal to the
rate on commercial banks' certificates of deposit (Certificados de Deposito
Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage points. This rate would be adjusted
every six months, on March 1st and September 1st of each year, to a level
10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term



- 20 -
credit,. the interest rate would be initially set at the level prevailing
for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and would remain
fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate
has been fixed at 10% and it is expected that, in subsequent periods, the
rate will fluctuate near 10% in real terms. The interest rates for
investment and short-term credit to be applied to the small Northeast
farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would be: 2 percentage
points below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane, cocoa, coffee
and rubber; 3 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in
irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points below the
general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 1988 and
thereafter; and 30% of the general rate, for other investments. These
rates represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until
last February.
70.       During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance w-ith the lending terms and conditions set forth in
paras. 56 and 69 above; (c) each of the participating banks would provide
monthly information to SUDENE and the T.U. on investment credit
availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be
given by the participating banks to allocations of short-term production
credit to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to
finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new
rural interest policy referred to in para. 69 above would provide the basis
for an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the
Government on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in
connection with the Agricultural Credit and Export Project (Loan 2348-BR).
This amendment would also provide for an annual review of Brazil's
agricultural credit policy by the Bank and the Government. The signing of
the above amendment would be a condition of signing for the loan proposed
in this report.
Cost Recovery
71.       Although it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery
on rural programs for low-income families, current legislation allows
CISAGRO to recover 100% of annual operation and maintenance costs, and
public investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastucture over a
50-year period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest2;. The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1988; at that stage consumers would
be expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State
2/   For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No.5975-BR).



- 21 -
Government provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for
public irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation that Is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1989.
Procurement
72.       Civil works, estimated at US$16.3 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that is
capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested, but would not be excluded from bidding. Some comaunity
development civil works would be carried out by the beneficiaries under
written agreements with the T.U. (para. 58 above). Equipment, materials
and vehicles required by the project, totalling some US$5.1 million, almost
all locally produced, would be procured by the several executing agencies
at various locations over the project implementation pertod, in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil
works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and goods and
services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank
review of procurement documentation (about 60% and 40% of the value of
civil works, ard goods and services, respectively). Consultants' services
totalling some 14 man-years, would be procured both locally and
internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotiations,
the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that they would
follow the procurement arrangements outlined above and in the following
table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure   LCB          Other       N.A.          Total
Civil Works                16.3  (8.0)                             16.3  (8.0)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture             5.1  (0.9)                              5.1  (0.9)
Technical Assistance                     1.1 (1.1)                  1.1  (1.1)
Studies and Training                                  7.5  (3.5)   7.5  (3.5)
Rural Investment Credit                              49.6 (34.7)  49.6 (34.7)
Community Subprojects                                21.4 (15.0)  21.4 (15.0)
Salaries and Allowances                              67.4 (22.9)  67.4 (22.9)
Other Operating Expenses                             20.0  (5.9)  20.0  (5.9)
Total                   21.4  (8.9)  1.1 (1.1) 165.9 (82.0) 188.4 (92.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.



- 22 -
Disbursements
73.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout
an eight and a half-year disbursement period at a rate of 702 against
project expenditures made for water resource development, credit and
support to small commmunities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures
made for marketing. Foreign consultants' services for water resource
development would be financed at 100% of foreign expenditures.
Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high rate of
recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures
until aggregate amounts of US$1.3 million for agricultural research,
US$6.8 million for extension, and US$3.5 million for administration and
training have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those
categories would be made at a rate of 30% of project expenditures until
aggregate amounts of US$2.1 million for agricultural research,
US$9.3 million for extension, and US$5.3 million for administration and
training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these categories
would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable an early start of
project execution, eligible expenditures (except agricultural credit)
incurred after December 1, 1985 (end of project appraisal), but before loan
signature, would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$4.5 million
equivalent. However, no disbursements would be made for the extension,
research, water supply and administration components in the municipalities
of the ongoing project until funds allocated for those components under
Loan 1728-BR have been fully committed or cancelled (para. 47 above).
Disbursement projections reflect the disbursement profile for previous
rural development projects in Brazil.
74.       Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of
Expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by the
T.U. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would
be made available during project supervision. Standard documentation for
contracts exceeding US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce
Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be opened in
the Central Bank with an initial deposit equivalent to US$4.0 million.
Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by Statements
of Expenditures, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date of the expenditure. The Central Bank would send the corresponding
withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish Lhe Special
Account. The disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to finance the
construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the following
cond'Ltions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and contents of the technical
assistance program for state irrigation agencies (para. 53(c) above); (b)
receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land required for such
schemes; and (c) Bank approval of detailed engineering designs,
resettlement plans, and operation and maintenance standards for such
schemes. Any loan proceeds so allocated, which by June 30, 1988 are not
committed to a specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank,
would be cancelled.



- 23 -
Project Benefits and Justification
75.       Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project
on production would result from increased productivity and an expansion of
cropped areas, At full project development, the annual value of
incremental production is estimated to be US$54 million; annual fiscal
revenues from the value-added tax on agricultural products is estimated to
be US$6.5 million. Incremental production that would be marketed through
existing channels is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as
Pernambuco's present production does not meet demand (para. 45 above).
Improved marketing facilities, water supply systems and community
activities would also provide substantial benefits to the population,
especially to women. Expanded agricultural activity would create jobs
equivalent to some 34,000 man-years annually. Improved farming practices
and careful use of agrochemicals due to an expanded and trained extension
staff wnuld have a beneficial impact on the environment. Estimated
financial rates of return for illustrative farm models range from 232 to
48%. Family incomes of project beneficiaries who all belong to the poverty
target group are estimated to range between US$1,140 and US$2,480, at full
development representing an increase of 75% to 185% over present farm
income levels, not taking into account any supplemental income from
off-farm work.
76.       Ecoomic Analysis.  The economic rate of return has been
estimated as 13Z.  Sensitivity tests show that when project benefits fall
by 16% or project costs rise by over 19%, the rate of return falls below
the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in
achieving project benefits, such as might occur during a severe drought,
would result in a 10% rate of return.
Project Risks
77.       Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous
rural development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
inter-institutional cooperation would still be important for project
success. The project includes monitoring, evaluation and technical
assistance to foster a more efficient institutional environment. Delays
and shortfalls in counterpart funding have also posed problems in past
projects; however, recent changes in funding channels, a new source of
counterpart funds and the consolidatior of rural programs should help
secure adequate and timely counterpart funding. At farm level, the
security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the
Government's agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers
still face recurring drought conditions. Decreasing these risks has
influenced project design by increasing the focus on water resource
development and on small farmer technology generation and diffusion.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 22, 1986
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
-25-                                                 Page 1 of 7
URIL                   - OciAL UIDICAT  DTA INT
BRAIL                               RElSRiNICB OCOUPS  URECNTD AiVEAT CS) .tsL
a:s                      cnlost axoa  EISTINT) fl
RCENT            KIDDLE INC111          MItDDLC  N
1isotk     1970Lk EISTINATULb      LAT. XERRICA A CAR           EUROP
AMA ("mum SQ. 0O
TOTAL                            4312.0      6512.0     1512.0
ACUCULTURL                       1636.4      1981.2     2376.7
PEI CAPI (T      )                    ..          ..      1680.0             1673.9                   2144.3
ommv c.uamzm Pm  carn
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EqUIVALET)      264.0      612.0       740.0             993.6                    1119.6
n,ULAE  A  v'n.  sunmuca
POPULATIOu.MID-IAK (THOUSAINDS)  72596.0    95847.0   129662.0
UK   POPULATION EZ OP TOrAL)       46.9        35.3       70.7               67.7                     4745
POPULATION noa csnous
POrPULATLON IN YAR 2000 (HILL)                         178.8
TATOAURT POULATION (HILL)                              298.0
POPULATION HNN1                                          1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PEE SQ. Mt.                       6.5        11.3       15.2              66.0                     64.7
PER SQ. EK. ACRI. LAND           44.4       46.4        53.4               91.1                    166.9
POPULATION SC STRUCTURE CS)
0-16 Ts                         63.5        42.6       37.2               36.5                     31.2
15-  YIRS                        53.6       54.2        56.7               57.1                    61.5
65 AND ABV                        2.6         3.0        4.0                6.2                      7.2
POPULATION QOVE RATE CE)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.6        2.3                2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             5.7         5.0        6.0                3.6                      3.7
CRUDE B1 RATE (PER MOUS)           42.7        35.0       30.3               30.9                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATC (PER TIlOS)       12.9        10.3        B.2               8.0                      8.9
CROSS REPROCUCTION RATE             3.0         2.4        1.9                2.0                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACPTORS. A,sIAL (TOUS)            ..        111.0
USERS (C OF HARED YOtMN)          ..          ..        50.0               65.3
FMn Am NIna.m
INnEK OF rwo PE O. PER CAPITA
31969-71-100)                      89.0      102.0       130.0              109.6                   109.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORES CZ OP IQUREUTS)         101.0       103.0      111.0              113.2                    131.5
PROTEINS (CAS  PER DAY)          60.0        60.0       64.0               69.4                     92.4
OP IIIICH ANIAL AND PULSE       35.0        34.0       36.0 /c            34.2                     34.5
ClLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         16.2        11.8        6.0               46.                      4.7
EmiL
LlF  UCFECr. AT BIRTH  EARS)       54.7        58.9       63.7              66.6                     67.2
INFANT NON. RATE (PER THS)        115.5       95.5        70.0               59.7                    53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XFOP)
TOTAL                             ..         S5.0       71.0 Id            65.3                     70.2
BWA                               ..         78.0       so0 7rd            76.5                    89.4
RURAL                             ..         28.0       51.o 7r           46.2                     57.0
ACCZSS TO EUMET DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         58.0       64.8 /e            56.3                     59.6
URBlN                             ..         85.0       83.7 7             73.4                     65.9
RURAL                             ..         2.0        31.7 7;            25.5                     47.6
POPULATION PER PEICIN            2210.0      2130.0        ..              1909.7                   1070.6
POP. PER NIURSIN  PERSON         2810.0      1120.0        ..               808.2                   769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL bED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 /a           362.0                    3Z8.3
URBAN                           250.0       320.0        ..               622.0                    201.9
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..              2716.7                   4519.7
ADMISSIONS FER HOSPITAL NED         ..         18.4        ..                27.5                     20.0
minus
AVERSE SIZE OF OUSEriOLO
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8        4.9 I.
URBAN                             ..          6.6        6.7 t.
RURAL                             ..          5.2        5.37;.
AVERAE NO. OF PERSONS/POOH
TOTAL                             ..          1.1
URBAN                             ..          1.0
RURAL                             ..          1.2
PERCENTAGE OF DIELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6       67.4 /d
coo                               ..         75.6       a.5 rd
RURAL                             ..          8.4       20.67.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
- 26 -
tRAZIL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LRAZIL                                RgRZERNCE GROUPS (WIGHTED AVCRAZS) A
MOST                      (NOD? SCENT  STIMATE) b
1 kb       1        ZCENT            MIDDLW INCOME           NIDDLE INCOM
196  g9 SfIILA Tgb      LAT. AMERICA 4 CAR            EUROPE
ADJUSTED ENROLLENT RATION
PRIMAKRY   TOTAL                  95.0        84.0         96.0 f            106.7                     101.9
AILS                   97.0        84.0         98.0              1 308.5                   106.2
Too"                   93.0        84.0         93.0              104.6                      97.5
SECONDARYt TOTAL                   11.0        28.0        32.0 /f            44.2                      57.5
nALE                    11.0       26.0         29.0               42.7                      64.9
mE^ALS                  10.0       27.0         35.0               44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL (Z OP SuCODAmY)           0.0         0.0         0.1 La             13.3                      21.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        28.0        26.0 Ab            29.9                      25.1
SECONDARY                          13.0        12.0        14.0               16.7                      19.1
cmns
PASSENGER CARB/TNOUSAND POP           7.6        16.6        46.9 /d            46.0                      54.2
ADIO RECIVERS/THOUSAND POP          65.4        106.4       354.9              328.3                     170.7
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAMD POP            16.5       44.3        122.2              112.4                     149.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAXIL GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             52.9        35.6        43.0 /h            31.1                      97.0
CINUEA ANNUAL ATTZNDANCE/CAPITA      4.4          2.0         1.1                2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (NOUS)          23326.0    30411.0    43736.0
PMNALE (PERCENT)                   17.2       20.1         23.5               23.6                      36.3
ASRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9         45.6        29.9 Id            31.4                      40.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 36.8        18.3        24.4 hd            24.3                      23.3
PRTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              32.1        31.7        33.7               33.5                      43.1
"ALE                               52.7        50.3        51.6               51.3                      55.1
PENALs                             11.2        12.8        15.6               15.9                      31.4
ECONOKLC DPSEIDENCIE RTo              1.6         1.4         1.2                1.3                       0.9
MCENT OP PRIVATE DICOME
RECEIYVD By
RSERS 52 Or EOUSEHOlDS              ..
HIGHEST 202 OF OUSmOLDS           60.0         63.5
LOIS    202 OF HOUSEHOLDS          3.8          3.2
LOGEST 40 OFP HOUSEOOLDS           10.8         9.0
ESTDMAD ASLUTE POVZERY INCUS
LEVEL (Us PSR CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..               26U.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        150.0 le           135.3
ESTDLMTD REATI POVERTY -aIWS
LEML (Urn PR CAPITA)
URB                                 ..          ..        465.0 le           519.8
RURAL                              ..           ..       332.0 7;            359.7
STIMA5ED POP. BELOW ASSOLArUg
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBA                               ........
RURAiL                             ........
IOT AVAILANM
NOT APPLICAUS
/a   The group avrags far each indicator are population-weightmd aritimtic mean. Coarage of countries
ang the indicator. depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unlaes othewie noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year beten 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwe
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Racent Eatitce" betwn 1981 end 1983.
/c   197?;  Id 1980;  a 1976; /f Beginning 1973, prlwry and secondary education cover ae groupe 7-14 and
15-17 initead of rio and iTWI in earlier years; therefore. moust recent *stitoo are not comparable
with earlier data; A 1976; .h 1979.
JUNEC 1965



- 27 -                                          ANNEX I
_~~~~  3n                          p F 7
DUtNmOlS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nomea Althougihthe da are drawn from source pnerall yjud he most auhoriative amdrible. it should aobe bnoted that they my not be imtentionally
comparable becaue of the lack of standardized definiion and conpta used by different countries In colilcting the data. The date ar nonetheless, useful to
describe orde or mgnitude indicate trends and chere certain mor diffrences betwen countries.
The rcerence tgroups are 11) the same coumntry group of the subject country and (2)5  country group with someimat higher averag Income then the country
group orthe subect country lexcept for "High Income Oil Exporers group where "Middk nrimeNonh Africa and Middle Eat is chosen becuse orstronge
socio-cultural affinities). In the refereace group da tie aveas anre populailon weighted arithmetic mesas for each indicator and shown only when majorily
of he countries in a group has data for that indktor. Since the coverag ofcountrine among thg indcators depends on tie availability ordata and is not uniform.
caution must be exerisd in rekting avergs ofone indicator toanother Thee avera  re only ueful In complring the valuovone indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crud Blrth Rate (per thasand)-Number of jive births in the year
Tota-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crute Deaht Rate (per thomaud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricabaru-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gras Repedun    Ra te-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970, and 1913.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      F        Plnng-Aceeptors. Anna (thaumands)-Annual num-
Bankc Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMVflON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Pady ?lannb-Ue  (perent ofned .wman)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although fom
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
To_nt Popul ta  Mid- Year (t3odtands J-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   OOD AND NUTRITION
and 1933 data.                                                     l&FdrdePr'U-1   EOIdxfe
Iras Pfopulato  F riPer o  Cotre (1969-71- 100)-Index oiper
Urban Popnktiew  (percm of totalli-Ratio Of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       indude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popdlaie P-ijecta                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population h year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. thes parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Caie Sapply ofCalories (perent ofreqairnments-Cormput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net rood supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement lcvel  tion. imports less exports, and changcs in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = ). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeos for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monmntun-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Proceii (gras per davJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mneasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t,. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those or
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
A_;o  Dvsiy                                                       average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.Am.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Cpta Prein Supply From Anila and Poise-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural iand-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animah and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Stucte (percenr)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Chl (ages 14) Death Rate (per rllousad)-Number of deaths of
ingagel(5-64years),andretircd(65yearsandover)aspercentage         children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent)-total---Annual growth rates of   from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percesa)-mrasr--Annual growth rates       Life Experany art irth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 28 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the time or of its birth were to stay the same throuShout its life;  h*pt-techer Raio - primary, and secondary-Totl students en-
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                      roled in primasy and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Infan Monael  Rat (pr thmasani)-Number of infants who die    teacher in the corresponding kvels.
before reaching one ye r of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMI'ION
Acce  to Sf E*bw (paces qf  pbtsan,ad                         Pauseqer Cas (par trousand populioen-Passenger cars com-
rsa-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating kls than eight persons: excludes ambul-
ass to sfe water supply (includes treated surface waters or   ances. hrses and military vehicles.
untreated but unwonuninaed water such as that from protclted  Re  Receivers (per thosanpopuhdoa)-All types of receivers
boreholes. spnp and sanity wes) as percentages of ther respec-  for radio broadcasts to generl public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban -r  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 netem from a house may be cosidered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recemt years may
as being withn reasonable acu of that house. In rural areas   not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the houewife or members orthe
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Reciers (per thowsadpopalari)-TV receiven fror broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                          to general public per thousand population: excludes unlcensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acerss te Exete Displ (percent f       I-ttl   r,                 ffect.
.d rra-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excrea disposal as percentages or their respective populations.  Newspqwr Ciskta  (per thowssndpopusdtonj-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposl may include the collection and disposal, vith or  age crculation of -daily general interest newspaperC defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news
borne syserms or the use of pit privies and similar insriations.  It is considered to be -daily- if it appears at least four times J week.
Popular,. per Phpsidimn-lPpulation divided by number of pra-  Cnma 4usd Atenance per Cpita pr Year-Based on the
tisingphysiciansqualifiedfrom a medicalschoolatuniversitylevel,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admnissions to
ftpulasisper NurAs  hrsou-fnPtpulation divided by nunber of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
fypan_  per lospad  &e-l, urb   ad rva-PopuEation             Torta Labor Awce (thousandsj-Economically active persons, in-
(totl, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number Of  eluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives
tosal, ubeds avilabl in pubic and privatei general  nubialered  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital bed  abilaion  CeD    piatg        and sp blized     various conntries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments
permanently staffed by at least one physican. Estabishments prov-  Femak (perceatj-Fanale labor force as percentage or total labor
iding pnncpaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however include health and medical cene not permanently staffed  Agriclwe (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a mnedical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as permntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1990
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medial facilities.                                         isndstry (percenst-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Adasien per Hospial Bi-Total number of admissions to or       facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Particpatio Rate (percentj-total, mal. aniffenL-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Avrae S3i  of Houseol (pens per househohlD-total. urban,      as percentages of total, mate and female population of all ages
andrwa-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILC's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sx structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates arc from national sources.
Avere Number of Prses per Room-total, urban, an rua-          Econoi Dependecy Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dueings with Elecnricriy-reral, urba.  od rur-  Peceage of Total Diposabe Income (both in ca  and kin)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enrollmr Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pfunary school - total. maie and femak-Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aU ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estm ed Abslue Pwverry Income Lewd ((15 pr capiro)-  ban
respective prmary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income  level
consider primary school age to be 6-1 1 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estmaed Relaive Poverty lome Level (USS per capitaj-srh
education, gross enrollment may exeed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondarv school - total. me/e and femak-Computed as above,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmued Popuation Below Absolte Poerty Icme Lewd (per-
mary instruction: provides gneraL vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-J rban and ral- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatinal Enrolment (pert of smcondaryJ)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 29 -                                                                         pof 7
II- umac ur1
Pqtim'    129.7 NI11m CtM-)
GU FM  mirus  1  1190 (1963)
US$ tIIUZ1 at                                                     -iM  aMM  la_ (X)
amt 
Indicator                    (l98')                            Actual                                                        Projected
1975    190     1961       i3g9       1916     196Ld          1963     196         60
am" aMNst1c Pr     t          n21a2,3m0       5.6      7.2     -1.6       0.9      -3.2      4.3            53        6.2       7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0
*dmIIm.                     24.25           2.7      6.2      6.4      -L5         L2      4.3            LB        2.0       4.        43       4i5       4.5
1Iatty                      62.92           5.3      7.9    -5.2        0.       -6.5      5.9            9.0       .0        L.5      L5        L5        5.5
5m                          I a103j25      10.3      7.3    -0.1        1.7       -1.5     3.0            7.B       6.0       6.5       6.3      6.5       6.5
MS.9 165.571                                   .4      3.5      0.2       3.3      -2.0      0.6            L3        4.        5.2      6.5       6.3       6.1
m lmme/b                      34.817         -7.0     ILI    -15.9      -4.2      -17.5       1.0          12.2      A.9       12.3      12.0      11.8     11.6
Of GM                  29.399         12.4    227        L9                 13.6    21.9           -3.2      -1.0       5.4       3.        2.3       5.3
Ipr  cc 01S                   17.B15         -9.6      1.8   -13.4      -5.2      -17.2     4.5           -3.2       2L0        1.5   II.7        L5         9.7
Gm   111  SSdp                23.816          6.4     11.6   -16.6      -10.6      -3.      2L.6           11.7      26.3      15.0      11.3     11.1      12
prim
GO Dllr (197031lD)                          305      2.955    5.4      11.450     3.261   90.541
Imin  RA   !W*.CxM$)                         51       527      93.1     179.5      577.0  1.8669
SU      of a P at l Ih.t Fdm  CZ)                        A      Amm  1m m  tS)
(At oma  Prm)                                       (At aO    1164 Prim)
1975      1910      1|W3d    19D/c9                        197340   16043   1910
CKn  DiNc ftmP g                     1u.0    IC0.0       IL0      100.0                           6.5       0.5       6.8
gtdalbm                             9.2       11.0      11.5     10.1                           9.5       2.2       4.1
1mf.y                               31.1     2.J       29.8      3LI                            4.6     -0.3        L4
-Ivm                               43.6      44.       4.7       47.8                           7.8       1.3       B.4
-m az                                76.6      81.3      78.0      74.3                          7.7       -1.5      5.5
*M   Xm.f.jb               D.3                 21.1      17.0      21.0                           2a       -4.2       3.7
Iot  OW5                              7.5       HJ       12S       10.4                          6.4       145       3.2
QWKU CWS                       1.4      11.2       7.4        7                           -1.3     -1J        9.3
Gn   61mu1. kS rp                     22L1      16.1     17.1      23.0                          -1.6     -4.5       14.3
An of ZSof MIP
Ut Ow a t oXi 01
pu1ic F11g  ({1  Ot)                                    19 1910  175    1979   191    1961/'  18/
- lle                                                    16.6     19.8    20.8    ELI    IL9    21.2
o-t ad1                                                 14.4     15.8    17.6    19.8    2.2   2MA
s3pIm (W) oIr lft-)                                      L2       4.0     3.2     0.3   -1.4   -4.2
CAl        4 IqiALnM                                     2.6      3.8     3.7     4.1      3.5     3.4
F    q   wt)                                             0.4    -0.2      0.5     3.9     4.9     7.6
Odar LIdigM                      197540  196045 1915-90
GP QW        now CO)               7.0      0.5     7.3
GW P    pIta QUIth AtZ ()          3.0    -1.9      5.0
-Pru Gmqzdm  th R  (Z)  6.5    -    -
mm                                 3.3     2.7      3.0
3Kgfzfl seld     -                 0.0      0.5    0.4
Iu ct E idty                       .2    -2.4       1.4
/a At mmee ico                fm             t     ant ad ;u  Mt  am   M ?A           of At  load.c tecor ad .Usidot.
/b 1915-40    _ c a  fw W         1         me      for inImpt ymou at far _ad               ., idl _     in Ma&u Iw i-In wiomat
71 ltelMbmy.
To d o mm t.
7F 1ssmz2 liEd  g            ipditr- .          l   dm   U.    my hb        ad d r           t M . - _ 11   tAM kI. to U. f_Ml qd_IM
1Kd. 21. IS



30 --                                                                            -I 6 /d
MAZU. - ELuam TM A
U#s iJIlm  at                                             AnMa tth RE. M) -(t  ua_t 1970 p)td
CTEnt PC""
Indlcator                     (19")                                  Actual                                                        Projected
1975     1960      1916      1912        1         194"       1965fe    1966       1907       198I      1919      1190
KtIIM                             c.a5           23.9      21.2      9.9       -3.0        27.5      24.1        2.6       -1.0       5.4        3.4        L3       5.3
fttmzP                         10.357           30.7      2D.4     46.8      -10.1        143       3.8        24.5      -3.4        8.2        3.6        3.6      3.6
taci .                          16,64            0.0      2.5      40.6        7.4        43W5      26.3       15.5       0.7        3.6        3.2        1.5      6.6
mockmiim Jqw                     13,916         -15.0       1.4     -9.4      -ML3        -59       -2.2        4.8        22.0        1.5      10.7        8.1      9.7
Fad & Cmnw Good                 1.533           8.2      13.2    -5f.        -1.2        4.I      -Lo          3.0     1c9.0      -a.          e.         7.7      6.7
fttml.                         6.c66           -3.8     -9.8       5a        -L6        -106     -13.7       -6.7       -2.3       11.3         .6        L8       9.9
1bd    y ad qu4_nt              2.151           9.8       6.4      4.9      -32.Z       -13.0       8.4       18.5       37.3      18.4       15.6       14.       11.6
aM                              3.361         -30.6     -2.2       3.8      -10.3      -23.3      2L9         -9.0       a.0       10.9       101         9.4      0.6
prm.
wrt Ptim Id                                        a        147       139        114        97        10D         97       15         IOS        116        127      139
l4ut Ptrc  I                                       71      125        135        152        343      i10          99        94         96       15         112      123
nT  of T     1 M                                  125       118        93         75         6         IOD        96        112       110        III        113       116
_.i          of at_hdia      TaM  (Z)                           A_ A hmml l e   (Z)
(at aart Prim)                                           (at       - 1970 pdiI)/d
1975       1960       1965      199D                            19750   19N0W        196590
1-.       100        100.0     10.0                              5.8       11.0        3.2
Prizyl                                62.7      4"          41.2      41.2                             1.1        8.6       3.6
---i&I Db                             37.3       55.2        L.8      56.8                            18.2 /a    2.2        3.0
100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0                            -1.4       -2.7       10.4
Fta    d mug    or                     9.J       11.1       12.0      I0.                             17.3      - 4.5       7.9
1atim                                 25.4       44         42.1      36.5                             43        -7.3       6.4
3Augy md Ijdt                         26.5       15.        19.2      2.3                             -7.5       -3.4      18.2
Were                                  33.3       d.1        26.7      25.4                            -1.9       -3.1       9.9
M3e   af Tr_ vith               Sha ot ot         idth        _ d    te     idth 0i1
Ditm  ot TW                          9195     1960    1963          1975      1        1983        1975      1910    1963
Kuwait.                           70.2      51.3      t.7         23.5      3.s      23.9         28       10.1      L.6
S.m                              673       41.8    37.1           6.7      15.      17.7        21.1      41.1    41.6
/a 1br im  Pda  1981-N90,. ily   Pi_ __iA sd Vi Plu Im am.
D  P1r the  piI  1975-190.  onuacrm iwlai.             Sab.
7_ pFoj.m   qeitad 5    at   mm at 196 prl.
t   21. I961



- 31 -
aMiS OF PAliWIT. e3r_c3rn CaIaL LJU 9
(INS a iltn at OsrratPiem)
fe alettmi       129.7 1tlt.  oldd-LU113)
G"1 Pr Capita. 111 uJLelo0 (19t33
tea_l                                                        -I .ejtdD
1ins       Ina        3am       I32        333 1jWI                         39         987        39UU       399        39
Ret Usert. *1 .agd aid lra-a         4,702    -12.3,4    -13.192   -34.147    -5.230           343       -4599    -3133       -10       1.011    -h.3          .4,1
.irti of Sad.                      55,10     20.132     23.191     2.173    a21.59       27.100     25.43      27.142    29.,33     33.04L    3,9317    42,432
lart. it  Said                     12,230     22.933     22,093    :9.193      1,529      3.1914    31,39i    13,131    13,143    39,014        U,e0U      21,319
let Factar lee..                   -31.33     -6,521    -9.531   -3113   -10,313    -10,99          -133,40   -11313      -11,3    D -13.654    -13,003    -122131
,af ate?, ttrans  Pase_.         (t2,0422    (.1321)    (7,14)    (91,22)    (14735)   (9,848)   (9.3t33     (,11"46) C9.0322    19.27,9   C(9 S.9)   (9,31)
_ MeAT *-'t
Nst Niareear Sarea                 -3,529    -1,320      -2,43    -3.3         -2,407    -1,743    -3,739      -.1329    -2,513    -1,119       -1,29      -3,377
Met Traf.r                               13        124         In        -to        mo         172        ISO          *         0          0          0          0
C-errc  Areea.t blaia                -5,589     32,436   -,1.00      -14.337      5.342       2SO        '349    -1,81        -7706    -1.011    -14,41 375
Strict Pritua t"Navt                    392      1,121      I,)          I93        644      1,075       719         191       si9      3,043      1,257      1,429
543* t.aia (Sat)                      5,330      4,492      3,430      7,499      7,323      9,282        395      3.453      2,924     2,459      5,0411     2,429
Cro.. Dhebraeat                    (t.922)  (t1.313)  (35,04)   (35,993)  (30,903)   14,098          30,3       34, 13  3I 12        31,323121  33,33      17,450
hAatLaaette                        (2,312)   (4,.20      (7) 7.91)    (7,.454)    (11.171mr  1.81    9.,37      112,70     3I.020    13.412     15.0W0    34.02
_Ir_ili  losea. Abrad (e)              -190        -27       -923       "394        122        924        400    '1.34      -3,94e     -21,e3    -2,330      -2.,50
Other CaItal ItalimdLS  rnia
ad ,alaa nu                           -_1      1,442      2.129      2.104    -3.3       -.1682     -33           119      -9          559    -a4         -410
Ca.e   1.  airui (- tidest.-
lInc   )                            1,2=       1,3,9       -949      4,33155       24    -1,027        437       -n74       -341       -459       -997     -12,24
flenurgteal nait_  . r s              5.719      4,9S2      7.03       3.250      3.737    3 13,9    :2,431    13,201       13.354    14,514     1,5331    14,755
t-f wheih mild)                        34      1,143        90          41        77 21    i.           .         a.m.     i".S        a..        a.s.       a..
he ea *   slmba   lof    t Sirt (CO"      3.3        3.0        L.         3.        2.1        9.2        6.9        3.9       7.4        4.9        4.5        S.L
t-tnl Capial ad Sabt
ls_ o   vialanet.                     4,912      3.1231    13.041    14,91       3 0.902    34.09      30.351     135,31     14.22     17.322     19.,1=      1."45
Offiea Crata                         -          -          -          -          -          - _        _          _         _          _          _
t_eeeiil l__                          302         3p         3 19     I310
OC                                   87         15         17        1-
IN                -                           - _                   - _                  - _           _        _                    - _        _     
stber                                Is          3          2       _          -          _         -          -          _          _          _          -
U rcew.at.al ZLoma.                 5,810     33.294      4,024  1.31         10,99      35,09      10,51      15,332    34.228     17.122     19.,=      11.45
Offeiil apart Credits               211        412        us         352      3.0        3,101      1.230      1,200      .310      1.29       3.290      3.,S3
3u                                  230        1*3        39         12f      1.204      3,2        7190      3.09       1.731      1,830      3,0        3,53.1
Other NUIttlataral                  139        1L8        390         313t 1               25        239        232        23         207        371        421
Fri-mct                           4.130     10,.13     34.32     13.307      S.378     33.2n       8.232     13.,11     32.030    13.,74     15.,27     11.721
KitanaI Sib:
est Sitetaila -d _ Otitid          23.451     1.5499 n    4.,25     73.036    79.,        99,513     001.7    93.l9    94,422    95.291    302.3          10S.s
F._lle/ifbUiely Cieraad          1,949      33,        44.833    49,.911   s3.05       5.81       4.80117    91.9       94.22    95293"   102,339    301.9
ir.    1_C_r__el                  9,lT3     14.,30     39.792     23.I3D     21.312     3923a17.21t     *_     *.            *     _*                    i.
ed.iserad SbLt                      3.751     1I.,28     32.53      14.222    .2,917      13.72D     12,805     13.933    11.432    13.3        1.3320     15.134
13 diae, sttrtll Ira
dlaerasita                 2.1        3.2        2.L        4.2       11.1        5.9        7.4        3.5      10.7       30.7       30.2       20.1
1 Du lieal on0                          4.7        3.7        3.4        3.1        4.5       4.3        4.         5.7        5.7        7.4        8.2        3.1
U193D Oebt eareet   l date Sce trite   2.         2.1        2.1        2.1        4.2       2.9         4.1       4.0        4.7        3.7        5.4        7.3
Sib: SarvIt
Teal Sardee Pa7aaea Lb_             2.70     12.141     33.333      l.L'25    11,209    2D09        39.071     21.41     22.335    22.732      23,.49     23.374
iataratl                          I.34      4.321      7.93       9.341      7,472     9,85       9.315      3.744      9.033      9.7        9,.29      9.15
Fayaiats - I taPir. (1)                28.9       15.3       40.4       71.1       4".Oe      72.3      59.2       73.1       70.0       43.9       39.3       31.7
A.e-. ater t lte.  l e
ear_tad Lew (C2) /e                      8.1       12.7       33.3       32.7       11.        3 1.9       9.5       9.8        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.0
Offtiel                                 8.0        9.1       10.9       30.9       30.3       a..,       i.        as,        i.e        .a          *         i_.
prive. Sarta                            8.9       13.5      13.3        13.1       us.b      i.         i.e.       i.a.       ia.        i..        *_.        *.
Avar a UerLty if N_
C-arsead TAM= (Than) Ie                  9.0        9.?        9.7       10.9        9.3        9.5      10.3        11.5      IaI5 1.1             a11.3       11.3
Offtelal                               i8.4       12.7       32.5       EL?        12.9       UaS i                i.                    i.e.       iea.         a.&.
Prive. share                            4.9        3.9        9.0       10.2       8.4       i..        ie         .a *.                  a.        i..        i.e.
leeirl:y Strict.,. *t Feb11: Debt bitataidiZ                     t
ItiSt_  dile utXle 7lOa  9e3T.
Mtltr,i Strear. if SiUlt  DebtaQtatSi
ataraitdia 4:r     e  (t tt ya eK..
e Di t  el, g1ld  tito Pr           _et          e e.
it 1er.. aid           _ artatla.  _ ai _ ai    g tar dab:
7lTvmt Ctrece fl fa7 rr 1975.
MamMt hM.. aid 1aa5-tezi damtie.    ejm-t
1Wrmi-ur.
zxcS_t M  ea           _I_ Soaat*v dbt.
7 Ieldemiiiy aIrclttaAtl . aU7 pai.
tle. -mate ._llab. l1 23, 1944



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAOIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SU*L4fRY STAIETMe OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan 1   Year           Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Mfllions)
Seventy nine loans fully dlsbursed                                   3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry           83.0       24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0         .9
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0        1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       11.6
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0         .2
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0       11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacco      Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       18.5
1721     1979  CODPEL                           Power                  109.0       22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads                  107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980  BrazilIUNDE                      Pollution Control       34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0         .1
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Trasnport        159.0       26.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0       13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                  100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0       12.4
1939     1981  ELEROBRAS                        Power                   54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport         90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0        4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       11.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       16.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        3.1
2196     1982  CMRD                             Iron Ore               304.5       69.3



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STALTEENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan I  Year            Borrower                   Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(USS Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0      102.6
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Development      67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7       40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                          Export Development   352.0          .7
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0         .5
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 250.6      223.0
2365     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education              20.0       13.6
2412    1984  Brazil                           Education              40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways      210.0      165.5
24.47    1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                          Health Studies          2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                          Development Banking   300.0      249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                          Education              72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.3       58.0
2524/1  1985  Brazil                           Rural Development      61.4       61.4
2532/T   1985  Brazil                          Rural WS&S Pilot       16.3       16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                          Railways              200.0      184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                      Power Transmission   400.0       388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                      Power Distribution    312.0      301.0
2593/1  1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure           100.0      100.0
2623T   1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development      24.5       24.5
2654/_  1985  Brazil                           Urban Reconstruction  100.0      100.0
Total                                              11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                2,19.37
Total now outstanding                               8,977.73
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                              3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
3T Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bark/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulatee to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 34
= U
3V 3
*.  UWU   or IXC  WIUU         Cm of "web 31, *293
ila                                                                                                                    hEC t     tiS USIiut
Yre                                      Obligor                                    Tifhamimm Les                               ptcy    Total
1957                mamma td-o r       . Cade l re tddi                          fierlel   ei_t                       2.00       -       2.00
2991                oUdkrat. LA. S Oduln a F*d                                   tIp agd FIWr                          1.20       -        1
IflN                IL L.    Elmt"a .1, Suil. 3. A.                              Ataetivi Mt                           0.45       -       0.45
IS!J                wlIyrOwrlted do tall, S. A. - hdutda * Ordeo                  bter Vidkl_                          2.45       -       2.45
W498                Cqalua MItb de Omto Petids., S. At                                                                 1.20       -       LZ)
1419                  aEsn h1ulome, SL A.                                        nIp                                   4.OD       -       4.00
ITAW1l981972        km Vllas. SL A.                                             StIm                                   3         1.93     9.93
1966/1 M9           Fqd e CaIduho  C-tarinm. S A. &tip ad Pqr                                                          3.78      5.71     9.49
MUM         /      192 gltrstU, SL A - *utla .   ASo de FrtLIizatA               Fatuia                                Li22      3.03    11.25
1IW                 Yturqudca tOde. S. A. Jtrodadeals                                                                  5.50      La       LU38
1970                  ialoldn. S. A. lhArd   a Oa crde                              Wmadalcd                          S50        LUB      8.J3
1971                 toi,    SL A. *mtda O.mdoe                                  Nrodadcrai                            4.60     144      6.04
1971        I         c tad. -      atiLme di ulowe do CA                       tlip                                   4.9D       -       4.90
1972/1975/ 1461     OWqfia de C0l_           l de er m 1_t                                                           169.14      6.70   175.31
1917Y74n/7l/au/s3h    eq-ida td-fS  i  di Bamrs  -    1M                         Stel                                 76.97     15.27    92.24
1973                Cqiltal  wat Ihequat Fod -  ICW                  Atttdl  llm lq_d t                                5.00       -       5.00
193131972963        apI    de bmlwiwl  de baK s. Mmmls - OMHM. L A.   admitlt aUI% d Rdiugef                          3m5        3.74    9334
1974                  dmatria Villarm, S. A.                   reVista   d hdm7dL    1_It                              6.00       -       6.00
1974                Fbda de Tcilda Thuqi, S. A.                                  TheSl_                               314m        -      31.00
1975JIS79           OqAwm  Cwban Liatt   l                                       C-Han Ughk                            6.13      1.19     7.37
1975                Citoi  txdaine S. A.                                         t 1_audea                            10.00       -      10.00
197b                Susi. lSnri - cl do lNms. S A.                              1mik_                                 6.45      IJIC     7.45
2916/1910           Tecor S A. - Mhl Ccanme di Ntduts                             TtIJ                                16.l        -      16.0
1977                 U S. A. induc es. PtiabsugIci                               in  ad Alidan C-iqW                  20.00       -      20.'0
1977                 Flula  ro do Cew  S. A.                                      lt Ism.                                        -      15.Is
197H                Cld Sldanqis S. A.                                           brn ad Skd                            LU3       3.0    1.3
1979                Uhei do tIl tbra. e V,ow, S. A.                              tr Vddcls                            60.00      527    65.27
1910                lIrrt do 1t1Id e S. A. - Slim                                b      _dyud  Ganti                   2.00       -       2.00
1[gm                 omee Fdo Pa  S/A -      - *AaClr. *I,wdtdla
e Od o de 01.qjh,uis                                      biUl                                  3.50      1.00     4.50
9ln                 Villm Tnbm tn   de Hae S. A. - VIr ann ad stad                                                     smO       -        5.00
193                 Rm - Gm.tta  Iduin           e Rtaditl4prIu                  0m1s ard Pxdkdi                      25.Z:1     2.00    17MO
191D                DtXliia Cume S. A.                                           ChQlc   ad  }undadola                  -        0.25     0.25
1933               stm         6.a Qdm  a itera  StA                             fiaril                               350        60      41.00
193D                tioal rmnuqudata                                             CateA ad  atradamcls                 43.00      5.CO    43.00
19S1                tralus                                                       Rbr ad  qu Colta Macts       r        -         1.!      1.50
1911                   piuda tanelR    de Apauzta -   RAlow ad te ktcamIg                                              5.50      3.       B.50
m1                   lwsifo                                                     Ca _dds ad MaudaSkIa                 46.OD      4.0r    50.00
1912                Caou    CUINE                                                Glt aD OIIDruces HulaiaJ             40.00      5.0     45.00
IWQ2                jotlasitz  S. A.                                             tsp Citil lAMt                      3200        0.45    30.45
190                 C. MqrnWw de PWtaccp1       m (CM3                           Itbu  Cqulo  t,                       - OI                 .01
l93                 Arim K dceMr                                                 Rod ad Fad Pnxg                      13.00      -       13.00
1963                tqw.tt  mig   do A_   (MOM                                   fP. 01                                6.10      -        6.10
19S3                P254 - iul die uyran SA.                                     tbip & lWir Prkfa                    60.00      5.17    65.17
19S3                sFads.                                                         id F ad d P      nm                 3.0       2.50     5.50
19B                 CDOC                                                          Bat ad a          1te ln  H e1s     35.00      -       35.00
1936                kgnlcr tatus                                                 Cmahs  ad F_1eodaa                    3.00      5.W  sm
lie                       de AolMdatrA tclam                                     BuLnt. ad Fadhics                    200        4.00    24.00
1m                  Q5id   de ad.                                                Chdets ad Fadimlala                   ).2       1.30     50
RINAam to     OM.Lt                                                                    935.42    10572  1,041.14
1_s,   _elatiit .    .m_Un*l        iti ad Sl                                          679.95     3D.78   7-' '3
RIt-! Cm_t-s Phb lIbd by IC                                                             255.47    74.94   33041
uc _ls                                                                                  644        1A43    79.26
ApL! 18. 196



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
FIFTH NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 3 years
(b) Agency which prepared the project: SUDENE and Federal and State
Government Agencies with Bank
and FAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :  1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure       : November 1985
(e)  Negotiations                      : May, 1986
(f)  Estimated Loan Effectiveness         September, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Loan Conditions
(a) rural investment credit would be granted in accordance with terms
agreed with the Bank (paras. 56 and 69);
(b) community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between the T.U. and the grant's beneficiaries has been signed
(para. 58);
(c) land would be available for distribution at times and in
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 60); and



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) funding procedures would be maintalned on the terms agreed with
the Bank (para. 68).
2. Condition of Signing
The amendment to the loan agreement for Loan No. 2348-BR would be
signed prior to, or simultaneously with, the documents for the
loan proposed in this report (para. 70).
3. Special Condition of Effectiveness
All federally-funded rural special programs would be unified at
the state level (para. 62).
4. Special Cor,ditions of Disbursement
The disbursement of loan proceeds allocated to finance the
construction of public irrigation schemes would be subject to the
following conditions: (a) Bank approval of the scope and contents
of the technical assistance program for state irrigation agencies;
(b) receipt by the Bank of proof of acquisition of the land
required for such schemes; and (c) Bank approval of detailed
engineering designs, resettlement plans and operation and
maintenance standards for such schemes (para. 74).
5. Special Condition of Cancellation
The amount of US$8.7 million eqtzvalent, set aside to finance the
construction of up to 19 public irrigation schemes, would be
cancelled if the funds are not committed to a specific project
approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988 (para. 74).



IBRD 1W
L... RIO GRANDE DO NORTE 36
C    E A       R      A                                                   A      I         P      A      R      A       I     B      t                                              JOAO MESSOAM
P  I A  U  I
B      R    A  Z  I L                                                                                                                                       -       A T L A    T I C
--S081A         DlNHO    NORTTHEASTRURRLLDDVEVPMENTENROGRAMRAM
> g__r A\ ~Northeast Rural Development V Project (Pernambuo A                                                                                                                                                                    OAS,+ilc OCFa 4 
PRIOITY   REA                                                                          A    Lr alAd      G 33      -A                    73
A    Research C..ters . .                                                                                                                    n                                   a i
*Research F,.ld Stati-n p\S\5%wuatL
Pri.rity Area.-                                                                                        <                             IT               9w
S Sate Capltals & '\ - \ 9 ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L /.C
nef                                  ~~~~~~~~~Town (m-ni..pai C.pimals)                                                                                                                                         7!<-9 vRAf
r_wS.A..f        l ,, Selected Roads ; S. E R G I P E \\  ,t R.3d                                      7
=.'A .fi'                     U03llunicS --ipal B-darie                                                        S  E.
sAte B..ndarie  .-j-<  
PRwIORTY RESw                                                             (n'rnaic              A    L    A    G    0    A    SrA .
Cs   K  J  ') / ( _{< u,l~ iers                                                                   _~.a
Sat Caitl                              5'                      5                                 \,. /n   I                                                          ,A






