Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10486-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
JUNE 29, 1992
MICR.OFICHE COP'Y
Report ND.  1048i(-E C'  Type:  ( SDAR)
KUGLER, 1.7 X3922:"5  /  -6177/ LA4HIR
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - SUCRE (SI.)
EXCHPNGE RATE
(as of January 20, 1992)
US$1.00 = SI. 1,319
SI. 1.00 = US$0.000758
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



FOR OFFIACIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
.iSOPROFAR Pharmaceutical Producers Association
CEN IM    Central Supply Facility
(Centro Estatal de Medicamentos e inMumos Mfidicos)
CNS       National Health Council (Consejo Nacional de Salud)                                      W
CONADS    National Development Council ('onsejo Nacional de Desarrollo)
CPSG      Provincial Health Council of Guayas (Consejo Provincial de Salud
del Guayas)
CRM       Rehabilitation Center of Manabi (Centro de Rehabilitaci6n de
ManabI)
SDB       Interamerican Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo)
1$0      Ecuadoran Institute for Sanitary Works (Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Obras Sanitarias)
lESS      Social Security Institute (Instituto Bcuatoriano de Seguridad
Social)
IMP       International Monetary Fund
iMR       Infant Mortality Rate
INBM      National Employment Institute (Instituto Nacional de Empleo)
MBGRAMB   Pharmaceutical Program for Children under 14 Years of Age
mOp       Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Finanzas)
EDS       Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio de Salud PGblica)
NIH       National Institute of Hygiene L. I. Perez (Instituto Nacional do
Higiene)
MGOs      Nongovernmental Organizations (Organizaciones no
Gubernamentales)
PAAMI     Mother-Child Feeding Program (Programa de Asisteneia
Alimentaria Materno-Infantil)
PAHO      Pan American Health Organization (Organizaci6n Panamericana de
la Salud)
PCU       Project Coordination Uriit (Uniaad Coordinadora del Proyecto)
PMA       World Food Program (Programa Mundial de Alimentos)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
SISVAN    Nutrition Surveillance System (Sistema de Vigilancia Alimentaria
Nutricional)
SOLCA     Society for the Fight Against Cancer (Sociedad de Lucha Contra
el Cancer)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme (Programa de las Naciones
Unidlas para el Desarrollo)
UNFPA     United Nations Fund for Population Activities (Fondo de las
Naciones Unidas para Actividades en Poblaci6n)
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WHO       World Health Organization (Organizaci6n Mundial de la Salud)



- iii -
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - HEALTH AND NUTRITION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     BACKGROUND.1 ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ....   .  I
A. Economic Setting .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
B. Poverty, Income, and the Social Sector  . . . . .       1
C. Women in Development .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
II.    SECTORAL CONTEXT .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status . . . . .       3
B. The Health Care System .  . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
C. Sector Resources and Utilization .  . . . . . . .       8
D. Health Care Expenditures and
Financing of Services . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
III.   SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY . . . . . . . .    10
A.  Issues                                                10
B.  Government Sectoral Strategy  . . . . . . . . . .    16
IV.    ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR  . . . . . . . . .    16
A. Bank's Role and Assistance Strategy . . . . . . .    16
B.  The Role of Other Bilateral/Multilateral Agencies     17
C.  Lessons From Past Experiences . . . . . . . . . .    18
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited
Ecuador in January 1992. Mission members were Bernardo Kugler (Mission
Leader); Patricio V. Marquez (Public Health Specialist, LA4HR); Luis F.
Duque (Public Health Specialist, Consultant); Francisco Mardones (Nutrition
Specialist, LATHR); Alan Carroll and Steve Maber (Sanitation Specialists,
INUWS); Luis Secco (Architect, Consultant); and Maria Anderson (Operations
Analyst, Consultant). In addition, a preappraisal mission visited Ecuador
in September 1991. Mission members at that time included Bernardo Kugler
(Mission Leader); Patricio V. Marquez; Luis F. Duque; Rene Corradine;
Hernando Gomez-Buendia; Carlos Castillo; Jose A. Solis; Wilson Rodriguez;
and Maria Anderson. Task Manacrer: Bernardo Kugler (LA4HR); Division Chief:
James W. Adams (LA4HR); Director: Ping-Cheung Loh (LA4); Peer Reviewers:
Philip Musgrove (LATHR), Oscar Echeverri (AS2PH), and Guy Ellena (EM2PH).
This report was edited by William Mayville. Ms. Suzanne McQueen (Summer
Intern) contributed to the production of the report.



- iv -
V.      THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
A.  Project Origin  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         21
B.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Domain  . . . .         22
C.  Main Features of the Project  . . . . . . . . . .         23
D.  Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . .         24
VI.     PO2JECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN . . . . . . . . . . .          38
A. Project Costs .38
B.  Incremental R.ecurrent Costs . . . . . . . . . . .        39
C. Financing Plan .40
VII.    PROJET IMPLEMNNTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           41
A.  Project Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         41
B.  Project Management and Coordination . . . . . .           41
C. Procurement .43
D.  Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         46
E.  Accounting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . .         46
F.  Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . .         47
G.  Project Monitoring and Supervision  . . . . . . .          7
H.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . I . .         49
I.  Impact on Women   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         49
VIII.   EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .          49
A.    Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  49
B.  Risks      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .  .    .  50
IX.     AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAT1Q1S. .  . . . . . .   50



U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LIST OP ANNEXES
ANNEX 1     Basic Sccioeconemic Indicators
ANNEX 2     Social Sector Finances and Household Shares of Subsidies by
Subsector
ANNEX 3     Health Indicators
ANNEX 4     Ministry of Health's Health Sector Development Plan
4-1 Project Areas
ANNEX 5     Methodology for Classifying the Population in Ecuador According                 F
to a Taxonomy of Critical Poverty
A1NEX 6     Priority Health Care Interventions
ANNEX 7     Organization and Type of Local Health Service Areas
7-1 Composition of Health Teams
7-2 Staffing Patterns in Rural Subcenters
7-3 Staffing Patterns in Urban Subcenters
7-4 Responsibilities of the Health Team by Type of Activity
7-5 Staff Redeployment and Hiring Timetable
7-6 New Personnel to be Hired by Tvpe
7-7 Training Program for New and Existing Staff
7-8 Cost Recovery Scheme for Pharmaceuticals
7-9 Basic Drug List (Generic Products)
ANNEX 8     Nutrition
ANNEX 9     Basic Sanitation and Safe Water/
Principles Governing the Basic Sanitation Component
9-1 Technical Options for Water and Sanitation Projects
9-2 Criteria and Procedures for Selection of Communities
9-3 Provincial Level Implementation Models
9-4 Service Levels and Costs
9-5 Decentralized Structure
9-6 Chronogram
9-7   Annual Costs
ANNEX 10    Sector Policy and Institutional Strengthening
10-1 Impact Evaluation
ANNEX 11    Project Action Plan
ANNEX 12    Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
12-1 Objectives and Functions of the Project Coordination tinit
ANNEX 13    Project monitoring
ANNEX 14    Project Costs
ANNEX 15    Disbursements



- vi -
ANNRX 16   health Sector Investment Program
ANNEX 17   Supervision Plan
ANNEX 18   List of Documents in the Project File
MAP:       IBRD #18179
.   .   .      -   .      ..   .   .~~~~~~~~~1  



- vii -
ECXAQR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT: HEALTH AND NUTRITION
WOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Ecuador
Blneficia  : Ministry of Public Health (MOH)
Amount:      US$70.0 million equivalent
Terms:       Repayment in 20 years with five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Prolect
ObJectives:    The Project would support the Government in expanding and
strengthening basic health services, includinc nutrition and
basic sanitation. It aims to: (a) expand basic health care,
nutrition and sanitation coverage to reach the poorest
population groups; (b) improve quality of basic health care
services already provided to the poor; and (c) strengthen
decision-making and management of public institutions
involved in the delivery of basic health, nutrition and
sanitation programs.
Project        The project, the first Bank operation for the health sector,
Descrintion:   is the second of the Bank's program for the Social Sector in
the country. It would support the above objectives by
financing four components. First is a basic health care
component which would support the Ministry of Health (NOH)'s
Basic Health Care Program in extending coverage and in
improving the quality of basic health care services to 2
million poor. This component (68 percent of total project
costs) is centered around maternal and child health care
interventions. It would include financing of: (a) cost-
effective health care teams at local health facilities; (b)
construction and upgrading of facilities, including
provision of basic equipment; and (c) medical inputs and
essential drugs on a cost-recovery basis. Use of a
decentralized network for delivery of services and
mobilizing community support and NGO participation would
enhance program cost-effectiveness. Second is a nutritign
component (6 percent of total project costs) containing
subcomponents in information, dissemination, and non-formal
education; growth monitoring; and food supplementation.
Activities financed would include: educational campaigns
advocating good general nutrition, feeding practices, and
breastfeeding; expanded coverage of growth monitoring for
children under age 3, expanded coverage of pre-natal care
and corrective measures for substandard cases; and targeted
supplementary food distribution for low-income mothers and
children participating in primary health programs, as well



viii v
as a micronutrient program fox iron deficiency. Third is a
basic sanitation and safe water component '13 percent of
total project costs) that would assist MOH in improving
access to safe water and sanitation facilities (mostly
latrines) in rural areas. In view of its pilot nature,
coverage of this component is restricted to under one-tenth
of the project target population and includes strong
community participation to enhance system sustainability.
Fourth is a sector oolicv and institutional strengthening
component (13 percent of total project costs) that would
support: (a) development of institational bases for
decentralization, including establishing budget programming
and management information systems; (b) staff development;
and (c) studies devoted to improved inter-institutional
coordination, cost recovery and payment systems, hospital
rehabilitation, and impact evaluation of project activities
and other activities in the public health sector.
sxDected
Benefits:      The project would help alleviate poverty in the medium term
and increase human capital accumulation among the poor, thus
improving the country's human capital stock and
strengthening bases for economic development. At the policy
level, the project would support a new approach to primary
health care. In addition, the project would improve
efficiency of public resource use by strengthening MOH's
planning and budgeting process, as well as its
implementation capacity and offering sector-level support
for overall budget reform measures being pursued at the
macroeconomic level.
Risksnk
Safegards:   The main risk derives from poor implementation capacity of
?MH. This problem could be aggravated by the presidential
election and subsequent change of GoverDment in 1992.
nroject design incorporates features to overcome obstacles
to successful implementation, such as development of a
decentralized management network for provision of services,
use of existing sector staff in project tasks, use of
experience develope- - managing Ba-'- PPF 110-8C and PPF
110-1-SC, contract    with international agencies to manage
procurement and r, ;uiical assistance, assuring incorporation
of counterpart U   _ng of recurrent expenditures in national
budget beginning in 1992 and including annual subsector and
project budget reviews during supervision missions,
introduction of cost-recovery schemes, and establishing ties
with co.munaLties. The substance of project components,
focussing as they do on alleviating poverty, is such that
they should enj%v continued support from Government despite
a change in administration. Intensive supervision will be
maintained during the political transition to ensure an
understanding of, and commitment to sustaining the project.



- ix -
Estimated Pro-let Costs A/
US$ Million
Local       Foreign     Total
.... ........ .... . . .
A. BASIC HEALTH CARE              42.5        1'.5         60.0
B. -NUTRITION                     4.5          1.2          5.7
C. BASIC SAN. & SAFE WATER         8.2         3.5         11.7
D. POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL        6.5         4.9         11.4
STRENGTHENING                --..-..---------..-.--------.-
Total BASELINE COSTS              61.7        27.1         88.8
Physical Contingencies            0.8          0.9           .7
Price Contingencies               8.3          3.4         11..
Total PROJECTS COSTS              70.8        31.4        102.2
Financing Plan
Local       Foeigm>0    Total
Government of Ecuador              31.7          -         31.7
IBRD                              39.1          30.9       70.0
UNDP                                             0.5        0.5
Total                              70.8         31.4      102.2
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year  923.    .924.  925. .296   97L   98   92L. 00
Annual           7.5 1/  7.0  10.0  12.0  16.0  10.0   7.0   0.5
Cumulative       7.5    14.5  24.5  36.5  52.5  62.5  69.5  70.0
a/   Includes taxes of about US$6.5 million.
b/   Includes Special Account deposit of US$3.5 million and a portion of
expected retroactive -inancing of up to US$5.0 million for eligible
expenditures incurreu after January 24, 1992.



DEFINITIONS
Age-Specific Mcrtality  Death rates broken down for each age group
Rates                    population.
Average Length of Stay  Number of hospital patient-days/number of patient
admissions.
Average Occupancy         Number of hospitals patient-dlays/number of beds
Rate                     multiplied by 365.
Child Death Rate         The number of dearhs among childrer xne to four
years of age per 1,000 children in that age group
In a given year.
Chronic Diseases         Those illnesses characterized by a long latency
period, prolonged clinical course, and
debilitating manifestations.
Contraceptive            The percentage of married women in reproductive
Prevalence               ages who are regularly using a method of
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate         Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate         Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio          Population 14 years or under and 65 years or older
as a percentage of the population aged 15 to 64
years.
Incidence Rate           The number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per unit of
time usually expressed per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate   Annual deaths of infants less than 1 year old per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy           The number of years a newborn ci.ild would
at Birth                  live if subject to the age-specific mortality
rates prevailing at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality        Number of maternal deaths per 10,000 live birth
rates in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth, or post-partum.
Morbidity                 Disease and illness in a population.
mortality                 Death in a population.
Prevalence Rate           The number of persons having a particular disease
at a given point in time per population. Usually
expressed per 1,000 persons.



- xi -
Rate of Natural          Difference between crude birth and crude death
Increase                  rates; usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population       Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Growth                   migration, and expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate     The average number of children a woman will have
if she experiences a given set (i.e., those then
prevailing among women of those ages) of age
specific fertility rates throughout her lifetime.
Serves as an estimate of the number of children
per completed family.



I.  BACKgROUND
A. Economic Setting
1.01    The stimulus of an oil bonanza in the 1970s and subsequent
accelerated economic growth that lasted until 1980 provided an environment for
social sector programs to undergo considerable expansion. However, poverty
still persists in Ecuador and has been further exacirbated by the harsh
economic climate during the 1980s. The country has insufficient human capital
accumulation in both an absolute sense and when compared to other countries in
the region (Annex 1).
1.02    The oil windfall of the seventies led to an average GDP annual growth
rate of 9 percent and placed Ecuador among middle-income countries. The
strategy followed by the Government during the boom lacked a long-term
perspective; hence major portions of the Government's oil revenues were
allocated to inefficient public expenditures and subsidies, and in the end
financed consumption instead of productive investments. This increased the
public deficit, which was partly financed by external debt.
1.03    Since 1982, the country has faced several external shocks in the form
of reduced oil prices and natural disasters, greatly complicating the
Government's efforts at adjustment. The public deficit reached an all-time
high of 9.7 percent of GDP in 1987, with interest due on external debt
representing 9.8 percent of GDP in 1988. With the implementation of a basic
stabilization process in 1988, inflation was reduced from 85 percent per year
to 54 percent by 1989. As a result of adjustment measures, complemented by a
rise in international oil prices, the public deficit was brought down to 5.1
and 0.3 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1988 and 1989, while a 0.8 percent
surplus was recorded for 1990; preliminary figures for 1991 indicate a deficit
of 1.3 percent. However, annual inflation rates remain high at above 50
percent and the sustainability of the adjustment effort is problematic given
the large quasi-fiscal deficit in the public financial sector.
1.04    Economic growth was near zero for the period 1982-87; the abrupt fall
in GDP caused by the 1987 earthquake was recouped in 1988 when the growth rate
approached 11 percent. GDP grew modestly in 1989 and 1990 (under 1 percent
per year); and although growth rates could be higher in the coming years, they
are expected to remain modest. The mixed record of economic performance
during the 1980s aggravated the debt burden: external debt was equivalent to
37 percent of GDP in 1982 and 109 percent in 1988. Arrears to commercial
banks reached over US$1 billion before partial interest payments were resumed
in the second half of 1989. An agreement with the IMF was reached in
September 1989 as a first step towards regularizing international finance
relations. More recently, an IMF standby arrangement was signed in October
1991.
B. Poverty. Income, and the Social Sector
1.05    While Ecuador's GNP per capita of US$980 in 1990 makes it a lower
middle-income country, poverty is widespread and income distribution highly
skewed. Poverty is especially serious for Ecuador's large indigenous
population. According to several reports, income distribution continues to be
among the worst for middle-income Latin American countries.  The average per-
capita income in 1990 was about the same as in 1978. The labor share of GDP



-2-
decreased between 1983 and 1988, and the minimum wage in mid-1989, measured in
real terms, was about three-fourths of its 1983 level. The reduction of
incomes during the 1980e appears to have affected the poor the most and to a
lesser extent the lower-middle income groups.
1.06    Public social expenditures increased substantially during the 1970s
but declined by about one-third during the early 1980s begore stabilizing in
real terms in 1984, following the pattern of public sector expenditures. The
increase in social sector expenditures during the 1970s set in motion an
increase in coverage of social sector programs that continued d':ring the 1980s
despite the fall and subsequent flattening of the expenditure curves. During
this period, there were improvements in some social indicators, notably                    I
increased education enrollment and reduced infant mortality. As a risult of
expenditure declines, however, average expenditure per student and per patient
decreased during the 1980s. While part of the reduction in unit costs can be
attributed to productivity increases (per sucre spent), there is serious
concern that quality of some social services has deteriorated, affecting the
poor the most.
1.07    Development of public sector institutional capacity was limited, even
though public employment grew at a rate of about 20 percent per year in the
1974-82 period, representing nearly 15 percent of total employment during the
1980s. Progress toward better public investment programming mechanisms and
toward timely program implementation was insufficient. Social sector
institutions are expected to interact with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
with the National Planning Council (CONADE) in preparing plans, programs, and
budgets.  However, these exercises have limited relevance because less than
half of the budget is allocated through the planning and budget decision-
making process, with over one-half of public spending being earmarked. Even
when resources are properly allocated for investment programs and projects,
implementation is usually fraught with difficulties. An example was a
comprehensive development plan issued in 1985 that floundered in part because
of inadequate formation of clear priorities and slow implementation of
projects sponsored by external financing agencies.
1.08    Overall, social public expenditure has had some effect in
redistributing income to the poor, as expenditures are less unequally
distributed than income. During the 1970s, the redistributive effect of
public expenditure in rural infrastructure, education, and health was
moderate. Data for the 1980s indicate that although the number of households
not receiving any of the social services is small (0.6 percent), all of them
belong to the low and lower-middle income groups. Furthermore, in the 1980s,
the smaller subsidies were more concentrated in programs for the low-income
group while the larger subsidies benefitted middle- and high-income groups.
The redistributive i.apact of public expenditure in education is the most
significant but programs in water, health and sanitation also redistribute
resources to the poor.
C.  Women in Develoiment
1.09    The Bank conducted an Assessment of Women in Development (WID) issues
in Ecuador in 1989; this study yielded a number of important conclusions about
the social status of women. There are no major differences in enrollment



-3-
rates by gender; at the preschool and secondary levels there are more girls
than boys. Most schools (92.3 percent) are coeducational. Although girls
have a slight advantage in terms of promotion rates, they tend to be directed
into educational streams with little mathematics and science, which limits
later career options. Labor force participatio- by women has increased since
the 1950s, although women are still concentral.-., in low-skill, service-sector
activities and informal occupations with low earnings potential. Lack of
minimal public infrastructure services has a powerful effect on the quality of
women's lives, specially in the household environment. Most important are the
unavailability of safe water and minimal waste disposal systems. Lack of
access to water in, or near to, the household further aggravates hardship for
women who are usually in charge of fetching water, especially in rural areas.
1.10    In Ecuador, as in many developing countries, safe motherhood is a
major issue affecting women's health (see paras. 2.01-2.07). Although crude
birth rates have decreased over the last two decades, the number and the
relative percentage of women of childbearing age has increased in the same
period, and maternal mortality rates continue to be almost twice the average
for the Latin American region. Malnutrition is another problem affecting
women's health, particularly among pregnant and lactating women. Poor health
and welfare indicators associated with childbearing and nutritional status of
Ecuadoran mothers reflect lack of medical care available to women,
particularly among the poor. Since women in childbearing age and infants have
more need for health and nutritional care than any other population group, and
as women have the responsibility in the child rearing task, access to good
health and nutrition services is a gender issue in Ecuador. These services,
including family planning, are fundamental to improve women's welfare.
1I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Pogulation. Health and Nutrition Status
2.01    Populati2a.  Ecuador's 1990 population is estimated at 10.5 million,
of which 55 percent live in urban areas. Population density is 38 per square
kilometer. The crude birth rate and crude death rates were, respectively, 32
and 7 per 1,000 population, yielding a natural population increase of 2.5
percent, and ranking Ecuador among the high-growth countries in Latin America.
The age structure of the population is youthful but gradually aging in
relative terms as a function of the moderate fertility decline. In 1990, 40
percent of the population was under 15 years; 56 percent was in the 15-64 age
group; and 4 percent was 65 years or older. The dependency ratio therefore is
79 percent. Nearly 40 percent of the total population is made up of mixed
indigenous and mestizo groups, who generally reside in rural and peri-urban
areas, belong to the lowest income groups, and lack access to basic social
services.
2.02    The total fertility rate (TFR) declined from 5.4 children in 1975-80
to 4.3 in 1985-90, with the most important determinant of fertility being
educational level: slightly over two children on average for women with some
university instruction as compared to 6.4 for those with no formal education.
Notwithstanding fertility declines, population momentum is still high. Recent
projections assume that TFR will remain over three births per woman until the
end of this century. The contraceptive prevalence rate has increased from



39.9 percent in 1982 to 52.9 percent in 1989; the most popular family planning
method is female sterilization (18.3 percent) followed by IUD (11.9 percent),
rhythm (8.8 percent), and oral pills (8.6 percent).
2.03    Health Status.  Overall health status in Ecuador still ranks among
the lowest in Latin America, comparing unfavorably with countries of similar
per capita income, despite major improvements in conventional health
indicators over the last two decades (see Annex 3). Life expectancy increased
for males from about 52 years in 1970 to about 63 in 1990 and from 56 years to
67 years for women. The national average life expectancy at birth is 65
years. The relatively high infant mortality rate (IMR) of 44 per 1,000 live
births in 1989, which was reduced by half during the 1970s, is partly due to
the limited coverage of public health programs. It varies from 20 per 1,000
in select urban areas to 150 per 1,000 in small rural communities reflecting
striking regional disparities and income levels. Mortality for children 1-4
years old has diminished from 7.9 per 1,000 in 1980 to 2.8 per 1,000 in 1989
as a result of immunization campaigns and control of diarrheal diseases.
Nevertheless, the current estimate of child mortality is more than three times
higher than in Barbados, Chile, or Costa Rica. About 4 out of 10 deaths in
the country occur in children under S years old. Primary causes of excessive
and unnecessary death and disease in infants and children are poor
environmental conditions (including lack of access to safe water and
sanitation services), infectious and communicable diseases, and malnutrition.
Maternal mortality at 170 per 100,000 live births 1989 is among the highest in
the Americas (more than 20 times the MXR of Canada or the United States), and
is especially high among the 15-20 and 40-44 year age groups.' Again, lack of
basic health care largely contributes to this situation. While urban women
have access to health servic.s and receive professional prenatal and
obstetrical care, most rural area pregnancies are not monitored and deliveries
are left to traditional midwives.
2.04     The mortality structure reflects both the pathologies attributed to
underdevelopment as well as those typical of developed countries. Diarrheal
diseases and respiratory infections together contribute to more than 50
percent of infant and child mortality. Urban and rural areas show clear
differences in the risk of death for infants and children, with mortality in
rural areas being much higher, particularly in provinces where the Indian
population constitutes a majority. In addition, infant mortality rises
significantly when the mother is illiterate or has limited education and when
there are many children in the family. The leading causes of death among
adolescents are accidents and violence, infectious diseases, and cancer.
Among adults, cardiovascular diseases and cancer are the major causes of
death. The incidence of non-communicable health problems --which are
contributing significantly to potentially productive years lost among the
adult population-- is associated with aging of the population and with the
rapid industrialization and urbanization processes of recent decades, which
has changed life styles and affected the health status of Ecuadorans. The
cholera epidemic, which is currently sweeping through several Latin American
countries, struck Ecuador in January 1991 and is affecting all age groups. In
1991 more than 13,000 cases and 220 deaths have been reported in the country,
mostly concentrated in areas without proper sewer and water systems.



-5-
2.05    Nutrition Status.  Ecuador is a country with a serious malnutrition
problem. Dietary deficiencies are chronic and a major contributing factor to
the country's high rates of mortality and morbidity among infants, young
c %ldren, and mothers. Energy-protein malnutrition, anemia, and goiter are
-.,e most pressing nutritional problems. The main causes of malnutrition are
inadequate food intake, poor feeding practices, and high prevalence of
infectious diseases.
2.06    Data from a 1986 national survey indicate that the prevalence of
chronic malnutrition among children under five was 55 percent, and that the
prevalence of acute malnutrition was 4 percent. On the basis of weight-for-
age, 45.7 percent of children had mild or first degree malnutrition; 9.3
percent moderate or second-degree malnutrition; and 0.4 percent severe or
third-degree malnutrition. The frequency of low height-for-age (retardation
of growth owing to chronic malnutrition) was estimated at 49.4 percent, and
the frequency of low weight-for-height (recent weight loss or acute
malnutrition) at 4 percent. Nearly 80 percent of child malnutrition is among
children under age two. Survey data consistently show that there are marked
regional variations, with chronic and overall malnutrition generally higher in
the Sierra (highlands) than in the Costa (coastal areas), and that the
incidence of rural malnutrition is about double that in urban areas. The
rural/urban gap appears greatest in those regions where income and access to
public services are more unequally distributed.
2.07    Anemia is a significant nutritional problem in Ecuador among infants
and women in the reproductive ages.  It is furtkar exacerbated by high
fertility and poor health. The 1986 national survey found that 69 percent of
infants and 46 percent of children 1 to 2 years old suffered from anemia.
Sample studies have found that up to 60 percent of pregnant and nursing
mothers suffered from some degree of anemia due to iron deficiencies. In
spite of some recent progress, Ecuador continues to be one of the countries of
the world most affected by endemic goiter. A 1983 MOH study of school
children in areas above 1,500 meters showed an iodine deficiency prevalence of
35.6 percent. The high incidence of iodine deficiency, especially in the
mountain areas, in combination with protein and vitamin deficiencies and
consumption of goitrogenic foods, explain such high prevalence. Ecuador is
not among the countries suffering from vitamin A deficiency (the 1986 national
nutrition survey found only 0.21 of the child_3n to be below the lOug/lOOml
retinol level and 13.91 between the range of lOug/lOOml and 20ug/lOOml).
Among lower and lower-middle class children, feeding practices are a major
determinant of malnutrition in certain parts of the country (while the
prevalence of breast-feeding up to one year is high, less than half of
children between 3 and 6 months of age are exclusively breast-fed). In the
coastal areas, malnutrition occurs early due to the rapid decrease in the
amount of breast milk consumed as part of a child's diet in the first months
of life. Poor sanitation and parasites also contribute to the early onset of
malnutrition in this region. In the Sierra, where tlhere is more prolonged
breast-feeding, the onset of malnutrition is delayed and is associated with
feeding practices (e.g., there is very little exclusive breast-feeding, as
bottles are used in the first days/months of life) and lack of nutrient-dense
foods for young children.



- 6 -
B. The Health Care System
2.08    The basic structure of the Ecuadoran health care system represents a
combination of public and private providers. In the public sector, health
services are delivered by the Ministry of Public Health (MOH), the Ecuadoran
Social Security Institute (IESS), the Armed Forces Health Service, and small
programs under the responsibility of other public agencies. Nonprofit private
providers include the Charity Board of Guayaquil, the National Red Cross, the
Cancer Association (SOLCA), and a variety of NGOs. The proprietary sector
consists of private hospitals and physician offices. Traditional medicine is
part of the socio-cultural structure and plays an important role in the
alleviation of disease, particularly in rural areas.
2.09    The two main providers of public health services are MOH and IESS.
H^'wever, public sector programs reach only between one-third and one-half of
the population. It is estimated that about one-fourth of the population have
access to private services; therefore, a large percentage of the population is
not covered at all. Only 60 percent of the urban population has in-house
running water or easy access to water supply and sewerage services. In the
rural areas, the coverage rates are 30 percent and 8 percent, respectively.
2.10    The Ministry of Public Health (MH). MOH is responsible for broad
national health policy and planning. Its programmatic responsibility is for
both traditional public health activities and curative care. The role of the
MOH's Provincial Directorates is limited to routine supervision of local
activities, reflecting MOH's centralized organization. NOH services are
largely financed by general tax revenues. Service delivery follows a
pyramidal structure with levels of increasing complexity (i.e., from health
subcenters and centers for preventive care, health promotion and curative
ambulatory care to provincial and specialized hospitals for inpatient and
outpatient health care services). The Central Supply Center (CEMEIM), an
autonomous agency under MOH created in 1988, is in charge of procurement and
distribution of pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies used in public
health facilities. Earmarked taxes on cigarettes and beer finance the
operation of CEMEIM, as well as the procurement of drugs that are distributed
by MOH under three programs: Program for Children under the Age of 14 years
(MEGRAME), Program for High-Risk Diseases, and the Generic Drug Program.
CEMEIM has storage facilities in the principal cities of the country, and a
transport fleet for the distribution of supplies. A network of drug stores
(farmacias de medicamentos bdsicos), administered by the Provincial Health
Directorates under the technical supervision of the MOH, is in place for the
sale of generic drugs and other medical inputs to public health facilities
(the drug stores are supplied by both CEORIM and private providers). The
operation of these drug stores is financed by allocations from earmarked taxes
on beer. The National Institute of Hygiene L. I. Perez (NIH) is responsible
for other matters related to pharmaceuticals, including registration, quality
surveillance, and control of manufacture.
2.11    Ecuador has a history of confronting malnutrition through vertical
food supplementation programs. However, these programs, along with the
efforts of the NGOs, cover only 20 percent of the target population. Worse
still, most of them have a limited nutritional impact on the most vulnerable
groups because of deficient administration, the absence of a clear targeting



policy, and barriers to access by the poorest segments of the population. The
most important program has been the mother/child feeding program (PAAMI) under
MOH. At-risk groups are selected based on pregnancy or breast-feeding status
for mothers and age of child (6-23 months); malnourished children between 2
and 5 years of age are evaluated with respect to the third percentile of
weight-for-age of the reference standards recommended by WHO. The products
distributed by this program represent a protein-caloric-rich mix of milk,
beans, and rice for mothers, and leche-avena (a milk, oats and soy flour
mixture) for children under school age. It is supposed to cover 25-33 percent
of the caloric requirements for children who receive it. A modern plant owned
by MOH produces the leche-avena mixture that is distributed to PAAMI's
beneficiaries. The coverage of the school feeding programs, which are mostly
financed by the World Food Program (PMA), and their transfers per beneficiary
are also low (US$6 worth of foods per capita per year). With the support of
the Belgian Government, MOH has established a very successful iodine program.
2.12    The Ecuadoran Institute for Sanitary Works (IEOS), a part of MOH, is
responsible for planning of the water and sanitation sector, setting norms and
standards, preparing water, sewage and storm drainage projects, securing
funding for projects, and managing the construction and maintenance of health
facilities and water supply systems in both urban and rural areas of the
country, with the exception of five districts, that include Quito and
Guayaquil, where IEOS' only task is to ensure that norms are met. Among IEOS'
main tasks is contributing to the development of local management boards.  In
practice, while boards are operational in cities, success in small communities
has been limited, thus leaving all sector responsibilities for the rural
population still completely in the hands of IEOS.
2.13    Social Security Institute (IESS).  The IESS medical program provides
hospital and outpatient medical care to public and private sector employees.
lESS is basically financed with: (a) wage contributions from the insured and
the employer; (b) Government contributions; and (c) investment yields. For
salaried workers, total percentage wage contributions (including the
employer's share) range from 15.8 percent to 30.2 percent; on the average,
they amount to about 20 percent of salaries, and there are no ceilings on
individual contributions. Although IESS coverage has been expanded over the
last two decades, the population covered represents only about 10 percent of
the country's total population and ranks Ecuador in 15th place among Latin
American countries in terms of coverage. Approximately 26 percent of the
economically active population receives social security benefits. Most
agricultural wage earners, temporary workers, and the unemployed are legally
excluded from social security coverage.  The self-employed may join
voluntarily. The spouse and children of the insured are not protected (except
for insured females' children under the age of one, who receive medical care
excluding pharmaceuticals); maternity benefits are only provided to insured
females. Medical care for IESS affiliates is provided in the Institute's own
service delivery structure of dispensaries and hospitals.
2.14    To expand social security coverage, an insurance scheme for farm
workers (Seauro Social CamoeLino) was created in 1981.  Of the total
population, approximately 5 percent are protected by this program (this
represents about 10 percent of the rural population). The beneficiaries of
this program contribute 1 percent of the minimum wage, and IESS affiliates and



-8-
all employers also contribute 1 percent of the payroll to this scheme, making
it in effect a program largely financed by urban wage taxes. Benefits
receivea are more limited than for the IESS beneficiary, but the spouse and
dependents of the insured are eligible for services, and enrollment is
community-based. Medical care is provided through a network of dispensaries
located across the country.
2.15    Private Providers.  The largest nonprofit institution in the country
is the Charity Board cf Guayaquil, which is financed from lottery income.  It
is a quasi-public institution maintaining a degree of autonomy in the
acquisition, use and disposition of its resources. Most of the users of its
services, provided through four hospitals, live in Guayaquil, but patients
come from other nearjy provinces for some specialized care. The Cancer
Society (SOLCA) is a national, nonprofit organization to fight cancer. Both
individual and institutional for-profit private providers are well-organized
in the large cities. The delivery of outpatient services in physician offices
(consultorios) is the most traditional form of private provision of health
services; a great number of Ecuador's physicians engage in this practice.
C.  Sector Resources and Their Utilization
2.16    Ambulatory Services.  MOH provides ambulatory health care services in
the emergency and outpatient departments of its 125 hospitals and through its
network of 120 health centers, 1,100 health subcenters and 228 health posts.
Emergency rooms and outpatient departments of the 16 lESS hospitals, and 49
dispensaries provide ambulatory care to the insured population. The Seauro
Camesino Program provides service through 312 dispensaries. Private practice
physicians and traditional medicine practitioners provide probably the largest
share of the ambulatory services.
2.17    MOH data show 0.6 medical consultations per person per year for its
service p,opulation. This low figure is mostly due to the limited coverage and
the low quality service provided by MOH. In contrast, IESS reported 3.6
physician visits per beneficiary.
2.18    Hospital Services.  The number of hospital beds in Ecuador is 17,612.
MOH operates 8,883 beds which represent 50 percent of total hospital beds in
the country; IESS is in charge of 1,607 beds or 9 percent of the total; 926
beds or 5 percent are managed by the Armed Forces; and the rest or 36 percent
are in the private sector. About 83 percent of Ecuador's total hospital beds
are for general acute care and the remaining for chronic care; MOH manages 46
percent of total beds for acute care and 54 percent of total beds for chronic
care. The number and type of health facilities under MOH are listed in Annex
3.
2.19    MOH has an overall bed to population ratio of about 1.2 beds per
1,000 population with a range of 0.6 in the Guayas,Province to 2.0 in the
Pichincha Province. Patients stay in the hospital 5.8 days on the average,
which is an acceptable figure. The occupancy rate is a low 62 percent; this
figure may be misleading as the total number of available beds may not be
operational because of the deteriorated condition of some of the MOH
hospitals. In contrast, lESS has 69 discharges per 1,000 insured; each
patient stays an average of 8.6 days, and its 16 hospitals have an average 85



percent occupancy rate. Higher patient-days and occupancy rates at IESS are
due to longer patient stay at their facilities.
2.20    Medical Technologies.  The pharmaceutical industry, which is centered
in Quito and Guayaquil, is one of Ecuador's main industries, and
pharmaceuticals are important exports. Although Scuador does not recognize
patents on processes and products, traditionally the industry has been
dominated by large multinational companies. Since 1970, foreign companies
marketing in Ecuador have been required to build factories in the country and
manufacture locally, or else to make arrangements with other companies with
local production capability. There are no state-owned pharmaceutical
companies, but the Government has a 40* interest in one of the major domestic
manufactLrers, Laboratorios Industriales Farmaceuticos Ecuatorianos (LIFE).
Overall, there are more than 150 pharmaceutical laboratories operating in the
country. Local laboratories import ingredients and compound simple drugs;
more complex drugs are imported in bulk and packaged locally. Approximately
90 percent of the country's pharmaceutical needs are produced locally.
2.21    All public hospitals have diagnostic laboratv.. as; their level of
sophistication is tied to the level of care provided ii. each facility.
However, it is estimated that a great number of the radiology services
installed in MOH local hospitals are out of service, largely due to lack of
maintenance. In addition, there is not enough trained personnel to operate
this equipment. At the provincial hospitals the situation is somewhat better,
but often they lack x-ray plates and other matorials and medical supplies.
Many hospitals also suffer from deteriorated physical infrastructure and
support services such as kitchens as well as defects in their physical plants.
2.22    Human Resources.  Recent estimates put the number of physicians at
about 18,000, one-half of them in the public sector (NOH, IESS, other).
Various estimates put the total staff of KOH at about 30,000; some 8,000 of
them doctors. However, only recently has any significant amount of MOH staff
been assigned to rural areas. These figures represent one doctor for 678
people, a ratio above those of neighboring countries and countries in the same
income group. A policy of unrestricted entry into medical schools has greatly
increased the number of physicians in the last decade which, coupled with the
constancy of expenditures, has brought lower quality graduates. In addition,
an insufficient number of graduate nurses and auxiliary personnel limits the
expansion of primary care services. The physician/graduate nurse ratio of 4/3
is exactly the reverse of the most cost-effective staffing mix. At present,
close to 70 percent of private and public sector physicians practice in the
two most urbanized provinces, Pichincha and Guayas, where 42 percent of the
population resides. The similarity in concentration can be partly explained
by the fact that many professionals work for the private and the public
subsectors simultaneously. At the same time, positions for general
practitioners, pediatricians, and obstetricians remain unfilled in some
provinces and many local hospitals. For water and sanitation, as well as for
its other programs, IPOS has a staff of about 1,800 persons of which about
two-thirds are direct-hire. Although IEOS has offices in each of the
provinces in the country, they are not always staffed with professionals.



- 10 -
D. Health Care ExDenditures and Financing of Services
2.23    Total health care spending in Ecuador represented a modest 3.5
percent of GDP per year or US$35 per capita in the 1980s (detailed data on the
evolution of sector finances appear in Annex 2). Total public health
expenditures were approximately US$120 million in 1991. MOH's budget was only
6.4 percent of the Government budget, and public sector expenditures were only
slightly more than one-third of total health exrenditures. IESS, whose
beneficiaries constitute only 10 percent of the total population, absorb
another one-third of total health expenditures; private health expenditures
account for the rest of the total. Ecuador spends less money on health
services than similar middle-income countries. A 1981 IMF staff study
reported that only 6 of 96 countries reviewed spent a lower share of GDP on
health, social security and welfare.
2.24    The provision of public health services under MOH is largely
dependent on central government contributions, which provide most revenues.
As noted (para. 2.10), however, the procurement and distribution of
pharmaceuticals and the operation of CEMEIN are financed by earmarked taxes on
tobacco and beer consumption. MOH also finances the operation of PAAMI and
other primary care activities with contributions from FONNIN, a fund for
infant nutrition under the Ministry of Social Welfare, financed by earmarked
taxes. Cost recovery is minimal. Of total MOH expenditures in 1990, 49
percent consisted of expenditures for sectoral coordination and
administration, training, and other central transfers and payments; about 37
percent were for financing the operation of health facilities (i.e., health
subcenters and cwnters, hospitals, and cancer treatment centers), as well as
for hospital rehabilitation and equipping; 11.7 percent were for basic
sanitation activities; and 2.3 percent went for vertical programs such as
maternal and child health, communicable diseases, chronic diseases, AIDS and
dengue prevention, and dental care (Annex 2). In general, about two-thirds of
all MOH expenditures are for salaries.
2.25    Public spending on health has a moderate redistributive effect in
favor of the poor, and more generally those most in need --women and children.
The limited sectoral resources have largely benefitted the middle- and upper-
income groups. MOH, which is nominally responsible for about 75* of the
population, receives the same amount of funds (about US$100 million per year)
as the medical program of the Social Security Institute, which serves only
about 10* of the population.
III.   SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. issues
3.01    The most pressing issues in the PHN sector are:  gaps in access to
basic health services; limited health service delivery capability in the
public sector; staffing imbalances; inefficiencies in health care expenditure;
weak managerial capacity in MOH and at the provincial and local levels; and
lack of intrasectoral coordination among service providers.
3.02    Gave in Access to Basic Health Services.  Access to basic health
services is not available or is severely limited for about 50 percent of the



- 11 -
population. It is estimated that one-third of all children are hardly
protected at all against disease. in spite of the availability of physical
facilities and doctors for the country as a whole, geographic, cultural,
logistical, and financial factors hinder access to health services,
particularly in rural and peri-urban areas. Availability of water supply and
sewerage services ranks among the lowest in Latin America. Lack of basic
health care and water and sanitary waste disposal services is reflected in the
country's relatively high infant and child mortality, maternal deaths, and
fertility rates.
3.03    The population growth rate is declining, but only slowly, which
contributes to increased gaps in access to basic health services. The main
reason for rapid population growth is still high total fertility. A broad mix
of economic, social, and cultural factors are associated with the high
fertility rate. These include such factors as the early age of marriage
(particularly among the indigenous population, and especially for females),
the diminishing practice of prolonged breast-feeding, the limited use of
modern contraception in rural areas, and the low relative status of women.
The success of family planning efforts has been compromised by ill-defined
policies, poor organization and management of public health services, and lack
of coordination betweern public providers, the private nonprofit organizations,
and the for-profit private subsector.
3.04    Limited Health Service Delivery Canabilitv in the Public Sector.
Limited resources severely affect the quantity and quality of public health
services.  MOH provides regular access to less than one-third of -ts target
population of about seven million persons. Similarly, only one-third of the
population has access to water and/or sanitation services; while the figures
are around two-thirds for the urban population, only one-sixth of the rural
population has either direct service or shared connections. Lack of access is
closely related to poverty: two-thirds of those not covered by water or
sanitation services belong to the low-income group. Less than two
consultations per year are provided to high-risk groups (infants, mothers and
children) or less than one-third the recommended level. It is estimated that
only 30 percent of reported deliveries take place at MOH facilities with the
assistance of MOH staff. Less than one consultation per capita per year is
provided to the rest of the target population or one-half the level provided
in more efficient systems elsewhere. Although the Government has expressed
its commitment to primary care, most of the NOH resources dre still allocated
for hospital services. Overall, 'he services provided in MOH facilities are
considered of poor quality, and are regarded as inferior to those available in
other institutions. PAAMI has had little nutritional impact due to lack of a
permanent supply of foodstuffs, whether donated or financed in the country.
These problems are caused by administrative, budgetary, and/or legal
constraints that have not been adequately addressed. PAAMI's impact has also
been limited because it was not well integrated with other maternal and child
care services and not targeted to high risk groups.
3.05    While physical infrastructure capacity does not fully cover the
country, this is not the limiting factor for expanding access. Public
hospital capacity is relatively ample for a cowutry with Ecuador's health
status profile. Effective hospital capacity utilization, however, is severely
reduced by poor maintenance and inadequate support services. Nearly one-third



- 12 -
of all hospital beds are not usable due to leaky roofs and poor supplies of
drugs, other medical inputs, and food. Additionally, the limited effective
hospital capacity is poorly managed. While secondary and tertiary level
hospitals for specialized care work at close to full capacity, lower level
hospitals for general type of treatments are largely empty due to a lack of
adequate madical supplies and staffing composition. This imbalance is further
reflected by the skewed patient profile: a large proportion of hospital
patients at higher level facilities (in some cases exceeding 40 percent) need
only simple curative care that could be satisfied more cost effectively by
lower-le-l hospitals if their capacity were enhanced. At all levels of
hospital care, moreover, average length of stay is prolonged due to poor
patient management (non-emergency patients are hospitalized arbitrarily and
often before being diagnosed) and poor quality of care that lengthens the
period of convalescence. Poor maintenance of the sparse water and sanitation
infrastructure further hinders overall effectiveness.
3.06    Ambulatory facilities (health centers and health subcenters) are
similarly poorly utilized. The existing facilities, if optimally used, could
provide for the primary health needs of additional population groups.
However, this would require that the ambulatory units be: (a) properly
staffed with nurses or nursing auxiliaries; (b) supported by a network of
village and neighborhood-based promoters; (c) well supplied with drugs and
other medical inputs; and (d) supervised by staff from higher-level fa-ilities
in the system. Under these circumstances, each facility could satisfy most
health promotion and disease prevention needs, as well as simple curative care
needs of its target population. Limited operational capability of low-level
ambulatory units also precludes developing a referral system, whereby
treatment is given at the lowest poPF:')-  and least expensive level of care.
Bunching of patients at hospitals t^*  d with low capacity utilization at
lower levels of care unnecessari    _.Aces total service volume.  Another
consequence of poor operational capacity at ambulatory facilities is
unnecessarily high unit and total costs. For example, an opportune oral
rehydration treatment --which could be provided at the patient's home with the
help of a promoter at a cost of US$1-- is often not given, requiring a
subsequent emergency dehydration treatment at a regional hospital costing
US$80 (US$20 per bed-day for an average stay of 4 days).
3.07    Procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other medical
inputs in the public health sector is affected by administrative bottlenecks
in CEMEIM. As a result, CEMEIM supplies only 50-60 percent of the needs of
MOH facilities, and 10 percent of IESS and other public institutions. In
addition, the pharmaceutical programs under MOH on average supply less than 50
percent of the products included in the country's basic drug list. The
operation of MOH drugstores is hindered by administrative and financial
difficulties, as well as by lack of adequate inventories to meet local needs.
Widespread prescription by MOH physicians of brand-name pharmaceuticals
instead of generics contributes to increasing health care expenditures.
Indiscriminate practice of self-medication (most prescription-only
pharmaceuticals can be bought without a doctor's prescription) has negative
effects on rational drug use. The operation of NIH is affected by inadequate
physical infrastructure and outdated technology.



- 13 -
3.08    Staiff-in  Imbalances.  The university production of physicians during
the last years has greatly exceeded the demand by major public health care
providers (MOH and IESS) and the private sector. As a result, supply of
doctors in the cities is abundant, their services have become relatively
inexpensive, and health services have developed physician-intensive staffing
patterns. In addition, the rapid increases in enrollment have affected the
quality of medical education negatively. This has mostly affectel the field
of basic health care because the general and family-practice fields are
particularly unattractive and usually filled by unqualified or inexperienced
doctors (for example, recent graduates who perform an obligatory twelve
months' civil service assignment).
3.09    Due to relatively low salaries, the nursing career is relatively
unattractive, which has led to an acute shortage of graduate nurses. While
midwives are also in short supply, other types of assistants and auxiliary
personnel for the medical field and for dentistry simply do not exist.
Nursing personnel, graduate or auxiliary, are generally capable in hospital
settings; in recent years, nurses have also been trained for public health and
community work.
3.10    Inefficiencies in Health Exoenditure.  Allocative inefficiencies
affecting the public health sector. MOH policies, which ostensibly aim at
strengthening the delivery of primary health care services, are not supported
by the necessary resource allocations. Instead, hospitals continue to receive
the largest share of public health resources: approximately four-fifths of
MOH expenditures are for hospitals benefiting the urban middle class, while
most of the unsatisfied basic needs are concentrated in nrral and peri-urban
areas. In addition, poor planning and programming in MOH have caused over
investment in hospitals and exacerbated the underfinancing of recurrent costFl.
In most cases, rehabilitating and reequipping smaller, underutilized existing
hospitals would have been more cost effective.
3.11    Inefficiencies in program operations are widespread throughout the
system. Even thought personnel costs absorb the largest share of the MOH
budget, the increase in the w&,e bill is due to overstaffing rather than to
growth in the level of remuneration. Overstaffing and limited funding have
led to low salaries, which further reduce incentives among health workers. In
1989, physician salaries averaged less than twice the minimum wage, one of the
lowest ratios in Latin America. Managers' salaries, which are only marginally
higher than those of physicians, fail to compensate for the additional
management responsibilities. Low and falling pay levels until 1989, combined
with decreasing resources for other operating inputs, resulted in the
deterioration of working conditions as well as in the decline in productivity
and the quality of care in public health facilities, which apparently have not
recovered despite recent salary increases.
3.12    Inefficiencies in the supply of pharmaceuticals (para. 3.07) are
related to two health expenditure issues: subsidies and price controls for
pharmaceutical products. The Government provided until recently a subsidy to
all companies importing pharmaceutical rroducts. Subsidies operated by
providing a preferential exchange rate of 600 sucres per dollar to importing
firms. It is estimated that the tota' value of that subsidy amounted to
approximately US$70 million per year. This subsidy represented a major drain



- 14 -
of public resources, since the main beneficiaries were private producers and
exporters. The magnitude and importance of the subsidy is better appreciated
when comparing its total value with the total amount allocated per year for
the provision of health services under MOH (about US$120 million). In October
1991, the Government announced its plans to eliminate this subsidy as part of
the standby arrangement with the IMF.
3.13    The Government also controls the pharmacist's purchase price and the
price to the public. The wholesaler has a 16 percent mark-up on the
pharmaceutical company's selling price, and the pharmacist has a 25 percent
mark-up on that price. If the pharmacist buys directly from the
pharmaceutical company, the price paid is 16 percent on top of the company's
selling price to the wholesaler. Tiere are no taxes on pharmaceuticals.
Price increases are granted for individual pharmaceuticals following an
application by the producer. However, increases can take several years to
take effect. The experience of numerous countries indicates that price
controls introduce price distortions, since they do not allow any change in
the price of a product if production costs are either lowered or rise in
subsequent years. Data from different developing countries also indicate that
price controls may cause: severe disruptions of pharmaceutical supply systems
and shortages of adequate supplies, affecting mainly low-income groups who
rely on public health services; decreases in the raze of new foreign
investment in the pharmaceutical sector; and a decline in the growth rate of
the local pharmaceutical industry.
3.14    Weak Manaaerial Capacitv in MOH and other sectoral acrencies. at the
Central. Provincial and Local Levels.  Management weaknesses limit the
implementation of policies and programs and constrain sector development.
Execution of internally and externally funded programs is delayed or carried
out only partially because implementing institutions lack capacity and
sufficiently qualified staff. For example, capacity utilization of the food
plant is low so food supplementation reaches a small part of the target
population. Physicians seldom receive managerial training but are frequently
in charge of major health programs. Those who receive management training do
not stay long in their positions due to low public sector salaries. Lack of
professional managers and poor management practices result in sector
institutions with no capacity to plan, execute and evaluate programs
effectively and efficiently. Weak logistical support systems disrupt the flow
of drugs, supplies, and spare parts. Personnel policies do not encourage
productivity, and staffing patterns do not match health care service needs.
Cost data is seldom used, even when available, and lags in the availability of
information on service statistics severely limit planning and control of
service programs. Additionally, investment planning is not linked to
budgeting of recurrent costs.
3.15    Managerial weakness at the provincial (MOH) and regional (IESS)
levels exists in the areas of leadership, supervision, management information
systems, budget control, and cost accounting. Managers at the
provincial/regional and lower levels have little authority to plan, organize,
staff, direct and control the health programs for wnich they are held
accountable. The combination of external assistance, supply credits, and
local political demand led in the past to excessive capital expenditure on
hospitals, which was not adequately complemented by hospital staffing and



- 15 -
plant and equipment maintenance, thereby creating a serious imbalance at all
service levels betwaeen planned programs and available resources.
Institutional capaciLy for delivery of basic sanitation services in rural
areas is also weak. The Ecuadoran Institute for Sanitary Works (IEOS), the
government agency responsible for this subsector, although sufficiently
staffed, has not coped with needs and has not auv-essfully sustained the
operation of existing water supply and sanitation services.
3.16    The current Government has strengthened MOH's planning, programming,
regulatory, and control capacity. Some of MOH's policies have required
revisions to overcome lack of targeting, commitment and sustainability.
However, the financial subsystems of MOH are plagued by a series of
deficiencies. Budgets are carried over on a continuing basis because of long
delays in approving the following year's budget. In addition, MOH does not
have decision-making mechanisms that are responsive to operational needs. For
example, staff remuneration, which consumes about four-fifths of financial
resources for operations, is centrally determ.!.ned and financed without taking
into account changing local conditions. Poorly defined resource allocation
mechanisms, as well as poor management controls and accountability contribute
to haphazard decis.on-making.
3.17    In MOH, the locus of decision-making rests with the Minister and the
central administration. The provinces are responsible for staying within
allocated budgets, providing timely information, and managing material and
human resources. However, little authority has been delegated to them to
carry out the assigned functions: the central administration determines
numbers and types of personnel slots; appoints rural physicians; and approves
and arbitrarily increased or decreased budgets. In recent years, there has
been much talk about decentralization; however, the implementation of a
decentralized model for the provision of health services is severely limited
by weak administrative capacity at both the central and provincial levels, as
well as the lack of clear operational guidelines for each of them. In
addition, community participation has been reduced to a minimum: after being
enlisted with promises that were never fulfilled, the degree of apathy to new
proposals could be substantial and will require special effort to overcome.
3.18    Lack of Intrasectoral Coordination.  All of the sectoral institutions
operate independently of one another with only nominal coordination and
without much control or guidance from a directing institution or coordinating
body. The National Health Council (Conselo Nacional de Salud - CNS),
ostensibly in charge of intrasectoral coordination, is inoperative. its
infrequent sessions are attended by low-level staff who discuss matters of
secondary importance. Lack of coordination among multiple and diverse service
providers, including those in the private sector, results in unnecessary
duplication, fragmentation, and inefficiency. These deficiencies are most
acutely felt at the planning and policy level, particularly in the areas of
capital expernditure planning and population served. Wide disparities also
exist among sectoral institutions in personnel payment systems, equipment
patterns, and treatment protocols. As a result, indicators of performance and
outputs are not comparable.



- 16 -
B. Government Sectgral Strateov
3.19    The Government has been actively engaged in a sectoral dialogue with
the World Bank and has issued several policy statements where priorities in
the entire social sector have been identified. Improvement of coverage and
quality of basic health services are among the highest priorities. To achieve
this objective, a basic health program has been designed to provide an
integrated package of services and strengthen the organization and management
of service delivery. The basic package of services targeted to the poor
includes prenatal care, child delivery, and postnatal controls, as well as
basic care for adults; immunization; health education; nutrition education,
surveillance, and food supplementation; and family planning services.
Physical expansion of the basic health network and institutional development
of MOH management, planning, and administrative capacity have also been
proposed to implement the GovernAment's program. While enhanced emphasis of
basic health services under this program appears to have gained political
acceptance, it has not yet been implemented on a wide scale and requires
further strengthening.
IV. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Assistance Strateov
4.01    Several World Bank studies stress the importance of social sector
programs in alleviating poverty, and also emphasize the need for enhanced
public responsibility in the social sector and for improved public sector
management. The proposed project forms an integral part of the Bank's
strategy for country assistance, which recommends several fundamental changes
in thr economy, including: (a) a redefinition of the role of the State,
devoting greater attention to areas of clear public responsibility such as
social welfare; and (b) replacing the existing protectionist trade regime and
the inefficient and constraining labor market policies with a set of economic
incentives that are likely to stimulate economic diversification and a greater
outward orientation of the country. The Bank strategy supports Government
proposals for the social sector and includes in its core lending program a set
of projects for poverty alleviation in the social sectors.
4.02    The Bank strategy for the social sector aims at: (a) giving priority
to social sector programs as the instrument for poverty alleviation;
(b) establishing efficiency and equity in public social expenditures;
(c) strengthening public sector decision-making and management; and
(d) enhancing effectiveness of specific social programs. The basic means for
addressing the issues identified are: (a) strengthening the budgeting process;
(b) decentralization of social programs and project implementation;
(c) reinforcing social sector staffing; and (d) fostering the role of the
social sector in promoting economic growth and efficiency. The priority
social sector programs selected for support include basic education, training
for poor adults, basic health and nutrition, and investment funds for social
assistance and infrastructure. The Government has presented to the Bank
project proposals for the first three.
4.03    The Bank produced a 1986 population, health, and nutrition sector
report that provided a comprehensive description of the sector, including



- 17 -
demographic, epidemiological, and nutritional profiles, sectoral resources and
programs; and a subsequent 1990 social sector report analyzed social sector
finance, efficiency and equity. With the exception of these two reports, the
Bank has not had a major involvement in the health sector. The preparation of
a proposed health and nutrition project has been supported by a Project
Preparation Facility Advance (PPF-110-EC) of US$372,000 which was approved on
May 29, 1987, in response to a proposal for a project in the sector stemminig
from the PFnk's PHN sector review.  Original project scope and objectives were
redefined in 1990 to meet the country's needs and priorities as analyzed in
the social sector study. More recently, on August 9, 1991, the PPF Advance
was increased by US$700,000 (PPF-ll0-l-EC) for supporting ongoing project
preparation activities included in the basic health care and sector policy and
institutional development components; pilot testing of the MOH's basic health
care, sanitation, and local health systems initiatives; and financing
information workshops and dissemination activities to give broader exposure to
the health care program to be adopted.
B.  The Role of Other Bilateral/Multilateral Aaencies
4.04    The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has bee.1 the
principal source of external financing for Ecuador's public health system in
the past decade. At present, there are eight health-related projects financed
by international donors. The largest of these projects is a five-year, child
survival project funded by USAID and MOH, which started in 1989. With a
budget of approximately US$28.3 million, she main objective of the project is
to reduce infant mortality in eight provinces that account for 70 percent of
the country's population. This is being done _.hrough the development of
special programs targeted to infants and pregnant women. The project, which
is also trying to increase the participation of the private sector in these
efforts, has had implementation delays. USAID has also sponsored rural water
and sanitation activities through an on-going, four-year, US$4 million project
with IEOS. A new USAID-financed project, amounting to US$10 million, has been
recently signed to support improvements in the delivery of family planning
services through NGOs. Another child survival project is being funded by the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) over the 1991-93 period. This US$3
million project will finance health and nutrition interventions focused on
improving child welfare.
4.05    In 1990 the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
began funding a four-year maternal health care and family planning project.
The project aims to increase coverage and strengthen maternal health care and
family planning programs, as well as to train staff and improve management
capacity for the delivery of these services. The total project cost is
US$15.5 million. Maternal and child care is the focus of a project financed
by the World Food Program (PMA), which will provide food supplements to
pregnant and breast-feeding women as well as to their children. The total
cost of this five-year project, which began in 1991, is US$19 million.
4.06    The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the Government of
Holland are sponsoring a four-year project to strengthen the pharmaceutical
supply system in the public sector. This project, which was initiated in
1991, has a total cost of US$1.5 million. Finally, a US$2.8 million project
that aims to expand the coverage and improve the quality of dental services,



- 18 -
particularly in rural and peri-urban areas, began to be implemented in 1991.
This project is being funded by a debt-for-health swap mechanism and by
contributions from both local private organizations and the Government of
Canada.
C. Lessono From Past Experiences
4.07    Since the proposed project would be the Bank's first free standing
health and nutrition operation in Ecuador, the review of past experience
covered 38 Bank-financed health sector projects completed in other countries,
and 34 SARs, PCRs, and Audit Reports on nutrition and sanitation projects in
LAC, Asia, and Africa 1/ 2/. In addition, an effort was made to review
Bank experience in Ecuador in other sectors.
4.08    In general, a number of Bank-financed health projects have been
affected adversely by the following factors:
(a)  Lack of borrower's full commitment to the project, leading to lack of
compliance with loan covenants which is aggravated whenever there is
a change in the national government and/or in local staff, often
leading to a change in priorities;
(b)  An overly ambitious and complex design, which overloaded
institutional capacity for project coordination and implementation.
This was particularly a problem for primary health care projects
located in rural areas, where inadequate or undependable
communication systems further hindered coordination and managerial
staff was the weakest;
(c)  Lack of attention in project design to sociological factors, such as
beneficiaries, characteristics, traditions, and values, which could
contribute to institution-building and increased community
participation;
(d)  Lack of organizational design that lends itself to hasty decisions,
throwing the project into a quagmire of bureaucratic delays. A
number of projects tried to counter this problem by creating a
special project implementation unit in the Ministry of Health. While
this expedited decision-making, it also led to communication
problems, jealousies among agencies, and lack of cooperation from the
regular public sector staff;
(e)  Poor quality and delays in construction of health facilities as a
result of lack of supplies, inexperienced contractors, and
11/Smwoss  hMU  MWSg. PCRate.  d APt Rqww o k-ith pfjo  In LAC. Ash ad Ahi;, (U WotUd BDk    a lauba. C   Orf  A   _bg mamll
kellmtcfoit oU oterniam fAm Ad= an,wm by Midl B_dswt -SW Cbfr  .  Ci wisC (It"e
No: 409X). aId                    anlb  and   r  fa 199 1 ) ti ,fo  pera ao e: Cn i dv slt alv  widu us?t _m biitv of _
end bEith    in CeAs  Annum ad Afdt  by 7ba B=U% Pmbbo   of _elomim by Pder Bow" Reouraa   sts a    n l k-tlh smar of dme
gMf by adam Wadia aid MMW  Th1   ad ei oDm Of low  w jU    in d   wk by C.R. Willapper.
at Sourna  lhds: (D) 34 SAa, PCRs ad AudIt Rqmw o mtatido   m _   pia  In LAC. Ash. and Afkih  () Woli d w ank upa inhdi  A b _
Inb    by P. hm LO1Wm  NWult*Ia id kbeRh mmem In latin A_uke by <hv P. Pfe5,  aid CMh C. O,1K  FlA Intind ewitath of B
fiod ad moitt insame by Phlip Mwusn 1 usn   in b b K. S*Inw  ad Malunritie Aim an be d4n? by Aim Bwso



- 19 -
inappropriate building designs for the project area. These problems
were often exacerbated in rural areas where contractors were
frequently reluctant to work and supplies were more difficult to
obtain due to difficulties related to the remote and isolated
location of the health centers. In large projects, the construction
component often overshadowed all other project components in terms of
planning, budget allocation, and supervision;
(f) Inadequate staffing to operate health facilities in rural areas where
working and living conditions are often severe and isolated. Several
previous projects have noted a high level of job dissatisfaction and
job desertion among those health professionals working in rural
areas;
(g) Failure to establish a strong, long-term monitoring and evaluation
system with which to assess the full impact of the project. This
system should lend itself not only to evaluation of the number of
physical achievements, but also to evaluation of the long-term,
distributive impact the project has had on general welfare;
(h) Lack of project sustainability on termination of the Bank loan as a
result of the borrower's inability or unwillingness to finance
recurrent costs. In previous primary health care projects, financing
of recurrent costs associated with maintenance of health centers in
the more remote areas has been a serious problem.
4.09    On the other hand, successful Bank-financed primary health care
projects were characterized by built-in flexibility, allowing review and
revisions as the project progresses; involvement of highly-qualified staff;
careful attention to field supervision, particularly in rural areas; strong
project leadership; and a significant level of public respect for the
government.
4.10    In nutrition, successful projects were those that:  (a) were
integrated across various sectors, particularly with health-related
interventions; (b) incorporated a number of different strategies; (c) were
located in areas with a high population density and a high level of
administrative capacity; (d) utilized local resources, including both food and
personnel; (d) were designed on the basis of relevant and recent nutritional
data for the geographical region; (e) carefully targeted the population to be
served; (f) recognized the importance of maternal nutrition on child health;
and (g) established during project design a system for undertaking nutrition-
related impact evaluations.
4.11    Other lessons from past experiences directly related to project's
nutrition component are:
Nutrition education: Nutrition education focusing on breast-feeding,
weaning foods, dietary management of diarrhea and other infectious
diseases, delayed solid food supplementation, and increased frequency
of feeding have been successful in improving the nutritional status of
targeted groups in previous Bank projects. Successful breast-feeding
promotion programs have been found to reduce diarrhea morbidity.



- 20 -
Successful programs include media campaigns targeted to the general
public, as well as training for health personnel, changes in hospital
routines, and active discouragement of infant formula use. In general,
nutrition education has been most effective when it has focused on
changing behavior and when the messages and materials were developed
with and tested on intended beneficiaries using social marketing
techniques.
Growth monitoring: Growth monitoring has been used to target food and
other health interventions most effectively when children under age
three are monitored, when it is undertaken with educational and/or
follow-up programs, and when it involves parents. Weight gain is a
more useful indicator for nutrition education and therapy than the
classification of a child as malnourished or well-nourished based on
his/her weight.
Food surolements: The use of food supplements has been found to be
most beneficial when two sets of conditions are met. First, the food
should be accompanied by nutritional counselling and growth monitoring.
Second, the food rations themselves must be acceptable to the recipient
population, be of sufficient quantity to meet nutritional objectives
(allowing for some leakage), and should facilitate self-targeting
within the household. It is also desirable that the food products
distributed are locally produced and that the program target population
groups with the greatest nutritional needs (i.e., children under the
age of three as well as pregnant and lactating mothers).
Micronutrients: Successful micronutrient supplementation programs have
targeted sizeable population groups for obtaining economies of scale
and used a product that can be produced in large quantities. The
products used for micronutrient supplementation have been carefully
chosen so that the taste, odor, and appearance of the food is not
altered when the micronutrient is added and to ensure that the
micronutrient will remain stable during storage.
4.12    Experience has clearly demonstrated that successful water and
sanitation projects respond to effective demand, as indicated by the
community's willingness to participate and contribute. To this end, several
Bank projects have involved the community in constructing water and sanitation
facilities and introduced cost-sharing schemes for ensuring the financial
sustainability of the installed systems.  In some cases, the impact if the
cost sharing schemes has been limited because the user fees, which many
communities have been willing to pay after they have been involved in the
construction of the facilities, were not set high enough to cover maintenance
costs. Increased community's willingness to pay for water and sanitation
services is related to perceived economic and social benefits such as time
reduced fetching water, available water in the household, and privacy of
sanitation facilities. Institutional failure has been the most frequent and
persistent cause of poor performance of projects in this sector. Strong local
organization is therefore needed to oversee the continued operation of the
installed facilities, particularly for ensuring appropriate fee collection and
infrastructure maintenar.ce.



- 21 -
4.13    Considering these lessons, the design of the proposed project (para.
5.05-5.44) emphasizes a number of characteristics. First, while addressing
fairly complex issues, the project components have a simple, straightforward
design, addressing a first slice of basic health care investment requirements
in the Ecuador health sector (paras. 5.07, 5.18, 5.26 and 5.35). Second,
flexibility has been instituted in the project by providing PPF financing for
pilot testing organizational and service delivery strategies that can then be
adjusted to local coauditions and replicated on a national scale during project
implementation, particularly at the comprehensive mid-project review. The
gradual incremental approach adopted for expanding the coverage of basic
health and nutrition services in rural and peri-urban areas across the country
would also serve to operationalize further and fine tune the design of
services during project implementation (para. 5.06). Third, to facilitate
project decisions, a Project Coordination Unit has been created for project
preparation and would continue during project implementation (paras. 7.02 to
7.04). The Unit would be fully integrated into the MOH management structure
and make all decisions by consensus to ensure the full involvement of the
regular MOH departments and provincial and local levels in project
implementation decisions. Also, coordination mechanisms have been established
with other donors, particularly PAHO, IDB, USAID, and UNFPA, to avoid
duplication of effort and develop complementarity in the implementation of
respective projects. And finally, increased community participation would
enhance effectiveness of basic health interventions and of infrastructure
maintenance, including that of water and sanitation (paras. 5.08, 5.14, 5.32
and 5.33).
4.14    For projects in other sectors, the need to assure that the Government
of Ecuador will be able to meet counterpart funding obligations is the most
frequently mentioned among project implementation issues. It should be
emphasized, however, that this is related to both project objectives as well
as the more general matter of budget processes and priorities. The proposed
project, through its institutional strengthening component, would finance
technical assistance and training to improve the budgeting and planning
capacity within MOH at the central, provincial, and local levels. In
addition, the project would include annual sector reviews and project budget
reviews during supervision (para. 5.03). Also, continuity of project
implementation has been hindered by changes in governments. However, the
Government has empha'-.zed the long-term perspective of the proposed project
activities and political leaders outside of the Government have shared project
objectives. In addition, flexibility of project design would facilitate minor
adjustments needed for assuring continuing support.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
5.01    The proposed project has been prepared based on the Government of
Ecuador's community and family health care program, and on the conclusions of
Bank Report 8935-EC, "ECUADOR: A Social Strategy for the Nineties," which the
Government and the Bank agree should serve as the centerpiece for developing
the Bank's social sector lending program in the country. The lessons learned
from past Bank-supported project experiences were also taken into account in
designing the proposed project (para. 4.07-4.14). Dialogue with the social



- 22 -
sector ministries has continued since the beginning of the present Government
in 1988. A First Social Development Project on Education and Training was
approved on December 17,1991. In the health sector, progress has been
achieved with MOH toward defining policies and programs. The Government is
committed to the proposed project, in particular to increased emphasis on
basic health care, and the project's underlying concept has been shaped
through extensive dialogue. Project preparation was conducted during 1990/91
by MOH under PPF 110-EC and more recently under PPF 110-1-EC. Appraisal was
completed January 24, 1992; a post-appraisal of the basic sanitation component
was completed March 6, 1992. Negotiations took place in Washington D.C.
during June 1-4, 1992. At negotiations, the Government delegation was headed
by Dr. Plutarco Naranjo, Minister of Public Health, and included
representatives of the Ministries of Health and Finance.
B. Proiect Obiectives. Rationale and Domain
5.02    Prolect Obiectives.  The proposed project would support the
Government's planned development and investment programs for the expansion and
strengthening of basic health and nutrition services, including basic
sanitation. More specifically, it would: (a) expand gradually basic health
care, nutrition, and sanitation coverage to reach the poorest population
groups; (b) improve the quality of basic health care services already provided
to the poor; and (c) strengthen decision-making and management of public
institutions involved in the delivery of basic health, nutrition, and
sanitation programs.
5.03    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project is targeted
towards the poorest sectors of the population, particularly women and
children, in rural and peri-urban areas across the country. Financial and
technical support from the Bank would assist in addressing issues of low
coverage and poor performance of basic health care, nutrition and sanitation
programs, limited capacity to implement programs and projzcts, and ineffective
resource allocation processes. Two major policy impacts of the project would
be establishing priority of primary health care services and strengthening the
MOH's planning and budgeting process. The latter would be pursued in close
conjunction with similar efforts in the education sector. The social sector
study and other Bank economic studies have identified Ecuador's budgeting and
decision-making problems and this project would provide sector-level
experience to support the overall budget reform measures being pursued at the
macroeconomic level. The project would: (a) strengthen project implementation
capacity, using existing staff of the agencies involved; (b) provide enhanced
project supervision, which would include sectoral budget reviews; and (c)
finance technical assistance to strengthen decision-making and budgeting
processes.
5.04    Proiect Domain. MOH has formulated a long-term health sector
development plan for the entire country that is serving as a framework for the
involvement of international donors in the sector. To this end, MOH divided
the country into 195 local health service areas according to a poverty
taxonomy that considered geographic, demographic, socioeconomic and niealth
criteria (Annexes 4-5). Of this total, 130 areas were identified as
comprising the most underdeveloped communities in the country, and thus the
target for the long-term health sector development plan. On the basis of the



- 23 -
proposed plan, MOH prepared a medium-term investment program covering the
poorest 71 areas (MOH would expect the remaining 59 areas to be covered after
experience gained in the implementation of the proposed investment program
permits a clear assessment of the long-term implementation capacity in the
sector). The medium-term investment program has been divided into two parts,
the first of which constitutes the proposed project, and covers 40 areas 'see
Annex 4-1); the IDB is considering covering the remaining part of the
investment program under a project to be implemented beginning no earlier than
1994. To begin project implementation, eight areas in six provinces (Azuay,
Chimborazo, Guayas, Loja, Manabi, and Pichincha) would be covered during the
first two years. In the following years of project implementation, an
additional 32 areas would be covered. While an initial definition of these
areas appears in Annex 4-1, their precise location would depend on the timely
beginning of the IDB project. The mid-term investment program, in the
selected areas covers a target population of approximately 3.2 million
Ecuadorans, including underserved indigenous groups, representing 30 percent
of the total population in the country. Of these, 70 percent live in rural
and 30 percent in urban areas. The mid-term investment program would cover 65
percent of the total population included under the development plan, and the
proposed project 38 percenc. The Government furnished the Bank a copy of
Presidential Resolution No. 3292 dated April 29, 1992, establishing the local
health service areas (para. 9.01), (see Action Plan, Annex 11).
Table 5.01: Health Develogment Plan and Investment Proaram
NMuber of Areas/
Population Served                Plan        Program         Project
PROVINCES                           20          16              --    (6)
HEALTH SERVICE AREAS               l,5          71              40    (8)
POPULATION (millions)              5.3         3.2             2.0   (.4)
-he numbers for the first two years of project implementation appear in
parentheses.
C.  Main Features of the Prolect
5.05    The proposed project would pave the way for the introduction of
critical efficiency and equity reform measures in Ecuador's health sector.
The focus of this project is establishing primary health care as the MOH
priority with an emphasis on preventive care at the community level. During
project preparation, MOH in cooperation with PAHO revised and modified the
orientation and content of its primary health care programs, as well as the
mechanisms for delivering them. An integrated primary health care program was
formulated to improve health, particularly infant and child survival and
maternal health, and reduce the prevalence and severity of the most common
diseases in project areas, considering the family as the basic unit to be
targeted. Additionally, procedures detailing the type and quantity of



- 24 -
services to be provided were prepared. In designing the project, MOH applied
two principles: first, for basic health care to be effective it must address
peoples' health needs with timely and effective services within a context that
recognizes the important role that both the family and the community play in
health care; and second, for basic health care services to be efficient,
health resources must be adequately organized for delivering well-defined
interventions. Implementation and sustainability of this project would depend
on strengthened decision-making and management at MOH and its affiliate
institutions.
5.06    The proposed project would have four components.  The first is a
basic health care component that would support MOH in strengthening the
organization and use of resources for delivering primary health services. The
second, a nutrition comoonent, is geared to improve overall nutritional status
of pregnant and breast-feeding women, and children under the age of three. A
third component, basic sanitation and safe water, would improve access to safe
water and latrines in select rural areas. The fourth component, aimed at
nolicv and institutional strenatheninc, would assist MOH in strengthening its
planning and management capacity. Due to the complexity of some of the issues
addressed, instead of attempting to address all of them fully from the
beginning, the project is designed to support initiation, and/or development
and pilot testing, of some policy and operational reform measures in the
fields of: delivery mechanisms for nutrition and safe water and basic
sanitation services; health care decentralized organization and management;
supply systems for pharmaceuticals and other medical inputs; cost recovery for
pharmaceuticals; budgeting and programming; and incentives for primary health
services workers (para. 5.22-5.25, 5.26, 5.04, 5.09, 5.15-5.16, 5.36-5.41).
This gradual incremental implementation approach chosen for the project is one
of the features giving the project the desired flexibility (paras. 4.13 and
4.14) as to allow the Government to test and fine tune policy, service
delivery, and institutional reform measures in a limited number of areas
before introducing them in the rest of the country.
D. Detailed Project Descriotion
BASIC HEALTH CARE (Annexes 4-7), US$69.8 million, including contingencies, 68
percent of total project costs.
5.07    This component is aimed at increasing the capacity of primary health
care programs to provide, in an efficient manner, appropriate care for main
health problems (about 80W of them) near the residence of potential users.
Actions are targeted to the poor, especially to families with high health
risks, and focused on the health problems whose solution at the basic health
care level have a greater impact on health status. The proposed basic health
care program would improve health, particularly infant and child survival and
maternal health, and reduce the incidence and severity of the most common
diseases in the project areas. The project would focus on providing care to
the family as the basic unit to be targeted at the community level and would
reduce emphasis on curative care administered to individual patients at
hospital facilities. Priority would be attached to the provision of services
that integrate health promotion, disease prevention, early detection and
treatment interventions, both at ambulatory centers and local hospitals, as
necessary parts of a comprehensive health program. A referral system would be



- 25 -
used to handle more complex problems. The health problems to be addressed and
the corresponding specific goals are described in Annex 6. Interventions
would include pre-natal, delivery and post-partum care; promotion of
reproductive care, including family planning services; child development,
including vaccination and nutritional control and supplementation; and
prevention of waterborne and acute respiratory infections, including cholera
(see Annex 6 for a detailed list of activities).
5.08    Outreach activities would be undertaken by basic health-care teams
comprised of 1-2 physicians, a dentist, 2-10 nurses and auxiliary personnel,
which includes community health assistants to be trained after being chosen by
the health team from candidates presented by the community. Each health team,
which would be based in a health subcenter, would be responsible for about 600
families. The health team would visit each family at least once every 12
months. During this visit, the health team would assess the family's health
and nutritional risks and their medical needs, and would work with the family
on a basic follow-up plan, particularly for pregnant and lactating women and
children under the age of three. This visit would be followed by at least
four yearly visits (depending an the needs of the family), typically made by
the community health assistant, although a physician or a nurse would visit
when necessary. In his/her visits, the health assistant would: monitor
individual and environmental risks factors as well as changes in habits and
behavior; provide education on health promotion and disease prevention;
administer simple treatments; and refer the family members to the proper
health facility when needed.  Active community involvement in the basic health
care program would be sought. The communit~y health assistant would become the
principal nexus between the community and the health system, ensuring that the
delivery of health services is consistent with the beliefs and values of the
community, particularly in areas with a large concentration of indigenous
population. A decentralized organization with increased capacity for solving
basic health problems is proposed as the means for delivering the program.
NGOs could play a substantive role undertaking reaponsibilities in some of the
local health service areas (para. 5.09).
5.09    Organization of Health Networks.  The delivery channel for the
integrated primary care program package would be an improved network of local
health service areas, similar in nature to those implemented in other
countries in the region under Bank loans (e.g., Ln. 2061-BR, Ln.2447-BR,
Ln.2699-BR). The organization of resources into health areas is a strategy to
improve efficiency, effectiveness, and access to basic health services, as
well as to decentralize health care administration. Health areas, identified
by the MOH during project preparation (para. 5.04), are well-defined
geographic regions within which health care delivery facilities of different
levels of complexity would interact with one another both functionally and
administratively for the provision of household, ambulatory, aad first-level
hospital care to well-defined groups of families or population groups at the
local level. The health areas would complement the MOH's central and
provincial levels, assuming increased responsibility as the new primary-level
administrative units of the system for the physical, human, and technological
resources in a region, including health subcenters with their outreach teams,
health centers and first-level hospitals. A detailed description of the
functions and content of ambulatory and basic hospital care to be provided in
each health facility as well as average staffing patterns in each health



- 26 -
facility, within an area is included in Annex 7. About 40 health areas would
be organized under this project. Recently, a Directorate of Basic Health Care
Services was created at the MOH's central level to assist in the
implementation of the integrated primary health program, and piloting of three
local health areas has started under PPF-110-1-EC funling. At least one of
the areas to be developed during the first two years of project implementation
would be under the management of an NGO.
5.10    The proposed structure of the health areas would depend on:
population distribution and its characteristics, territorial boundaries, and
the existing access to health facilities, including their number and the
complexity of services offered. Four types of area modules have been defined:
the rural module; the small urban module; the intermediate urban module; and
the metropolitan module. A rural module would cover a population of 30,000 to
50,000 inhabitants, with 5 to 7 health subcenters and one local hospital;
professional staff would make periodic visits to the small communities that
lack subcenters. A small urban module would cover typically about 15,000 to
25,000 mostly poor residents in small cities with populations of 35,000 to
70,000; it would have 2 to 4 health subcenters and one local hospital. An
intermediate urban module would cover some 25,000 to 40,000 primarily poor
inhabitants in mid-size c-ities (population about 100,000) with 4 to 6 health
subcenters and one health center (general medicine, emergencies and mother-
child specialties); patients would be referred to city first or second-level
hospitals as required. Each metronolitan module would cover a population of
60,000 to 70,000 inhabitants in Quito and Guayaquil, with 6 to 8 health
subcenters and one metropolitan health center that would provide 24-hour
emergency and maternity services, general medicine, and specialties in mother-
child care and other fields. Headquarters for each area, where management
tasks would be performed, would be located at the facilities of the respective
highest complexity area unit. For the delivery of basic health care under the
decentralized network organization proposed, the project would support:
(a) improvement of health facilities; (b) improvements of the staffing of the
health networks; and (c) provision of pharmaceutical and other medical inputs.
Annex 7 provides additional details on each of these modules.
5.11    Imvrovement of Health Facilities.  In assisting MOH to set up local
health service areas for the delivery of the primary health care services
package to the 2 million project beneficiaries, the project would finance:
(a) constructing, furnishing, equipping and maintaining about 7S new health
subcenters (26 rural and 49 urban), about 8 new health centers, and about 5
metropolitan centers; (b) upgrading, rehabilitating, repairing, complementary
equipping, and maintaining about 130 existing health subcenters (70 rural and
60 urban), about 9 existing health centers; and (c) upgrading, rehabilitating,
repairing, equipping, and maintaining about another 12 existing local
hospitals. The project would also finance 7 ambulances and 32 vehicles to
transport patients, and the establishment of a maintenance system for
infrastructure and equipment. Based on agreed poverty criteria, Government
and the Bank have identified the health service areas to be developed under
the project (paras. 5.04 and 5.09). Geographic areas and sites for physical
infrastructure development during the first two years of project
implementation have been agreed. Durina neaotiations. assurances were
obtained that site selection for infrastructure develonment and rehabilitation



- 27 -
nroqrams du inQ the remaininD  Xears would be Presented for Bank review -rior
to i.Llementin-Q the corremoondina investments (nara. 9.02a).
5.12 Health Networks Staff Ma. Two new types of staff for the delivery of
health care services would be developed under the project: a community health
assistant and a dental assistant. On the basis of the patterns and average
quantities presented in Annex 7-1, staffing of the health networks that would
deliver improved services to 2 million beneficiaries would require a total of
about 4,900 health personnel, distributed among i.,300 physicians and dentists,
2,000 nurses (and nursing and dental assistants), 300 medical technicians, 700
community health assistants, and 600 administrative staff, including facility
directors and area coordinators. The total represents about 16 percent of the
present staff of MOH. Given existing overst.ffing in the sector, reallocation
of ex4stirg positions at MOH would be desirable to satisfy the project
staffing needs. However, because of professional profiles, geographic
location and institutional and legal conqtraints, redeployment cannot be fully
relied upon. It would, anyway, be used to the fullest extent possible. Thus,
about 2,000 existing MOH staff are already assigned to activities of primary
health care; another 1,300 would be assigned through redeployment of existing
MOH staff and the remainder 1,600 would be incremental staff under the project
(see Annex 7-4, and Action Plan, Annex 11). Durina neaotiations. assurances
were obtained that the Government would imolement the annual programs and
timetables soecifvina levels of new and redeploved staff aareed with the Bank
(9.02b). The project would finance salaries of about 1,600 incremental staff
for basic health service facilities and area offices (including supervision
personnel) and expenses associated with incentives for currently allocated
staff and redeployment of staff. Incentives, monetary and non-monetary, would
be based on performance measured in accordance with project objectives.
5.13    Staff development for appropriate implementation of the basic health
care program at the different facilities within local health service areas
would require a significant training program for existing and new staff (see
Annex 7-2). The loan would finance (a) pre-service and in-service training
for about 4,500 staff, including community health workers, dental assistants,
supervision personnel, medical technicians, and selected administrative
personnel; (b) training equipment and materials; and (c) preparation, printing
and distribution of manuals and other printed materials.
5.14    To enhance community participation in health care delivery programs,
public campaigns would be directed to informing and motivating the general
public about changes in health services and on how to adapt the demand for
health services to the new delivery structure supported by the proposed
project. These campaigns would also promote increased community participation
in the organization and delivery of health services at the local level.  To
this end, the project would fund the design and undertaking of campaigns to
widely disseminate information regarding the proposed changes in the health
services delivery system, and the production and distribution of informational
materials.
5.15    Pharmaceuticals and Other Medical Supnlies.  In view of the
Government's commitment to implement policy changes in the area of
pharmaceuticals (para.3.12), the project would finance the procurement and
distribution of generic drugs included in the country's basic drua list (see



- 28 -
Annex 7-6) to satisfy needs of users of MOH facilities in project areas.
Basic medical supplies would also be financed under the project. A detailed
list of drugs and medical supplies to be procured under the project has been
prepared, reviewed during appraisal, and incorporated in the project files.
The list includes essential drugs to address causes of childhood and maternal
mortality and morbidity and communicable diseases, such as cholera and
tuberculosis, as well as other drugs for clinical purposes. Following Bank
guidelines, CEMEIM, on behalf of MOH, would act as a procurement agent, and
distribute drugs and other consumables to health facilities in project areas.
The NIH would be in charge of assuring the quality of delivered pharmaceutical
products. CEMEIM has experience in the procurement and distribution of drugs
and other medical supplies, and the NIH in quality control of pharmaceuticals
(para. 2.10). However, to strengthen the capacity of CEMEIM, NIH, and the
local health service areas's facilities for procuring, distributing, and
dispensing pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies, the project, in
conjunction with the ongoing PAHO/Government of the Netherlands Project (para.
4.06), would provide technical assistance and training on: (a) selection;
(b) procurement according to Bank guidelines; (c) quality control; (d) stock
management; (e) accounting; (f) cost recovery; and (g) prescription and
dispensing practices. During the First two years of project implementation,
the distribution of drugs and other supplies would correspond to two months of
operation in urban and peri-urban health facilities, and to four months in
rural health facilities. The adequacy and the effectiveness of these
procurement and distribution arrangements would be reviewed during the
project's mid-term evaluation and modified as necessary (para. 7.06).
5.16    Consistent with existing Government policy, those drug products
included in two of NOH's pharmaceutical programs (MEGRAME --only for children
under 5 years of age-- and High Risk Diseases) would be distributed to users
free-of-charge; remaining products of basic drug list would be sold under a
cost-recovery scheme to be established in project areas (see Annex 7-7, and
Action Plan, Annex 11). Monitoring of the scheme during the first two years
of project implementation would provide bases for adjusting cost recovery
policies and doing the corresponding financial projections for the remaining
years of the project. During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the
Government that generic druas not included in the two MOH free-of-charge
pharmaceutical programs would be sold to users under a cost-recovery scheme in
the different facilities of 1roject areas. so that by mid-teri review 30
percent of total basic drug costs would be recovered through user charges and
35 oercent during the May 1996-December 1990 period (opara. 9.02c). It is
likewise expected ;hat attempts would be made to recover 40 percent by the end
of the project.
5.17    Studies to assess (a) alternative procurement and distribution
methods for drugs and other medical suppAies, including the private sector,
and (b) the impact of the Government's price control policies for
pharmaceuticals would be completed by the end of the first year of project
implementation (see Action Plan, Annex 11). The first study would focus on
the internal efficiency of CEMEIM; the current procurement procedures being
used by public and private providers; and alternative procurement and
distribution methods, including proposals made by ASOPROFAR, the association
of private producers of pharmaceuticals. The study would contain
recommendations about necessary legal and institutional changes, and



- 29 -
estimations of cost savings from proposed changes. The second study would
analyze the effects of price control policies on:  the price structure for
pharmaceuticals; the Government's quest to provide basic drugs at lower cost;
the adequacy of pharmaceutical supply systems; the rate of new foreign
investment in the pharmaceutical sector; and the growth rate of the local
pharmaceutical industry. On the basis of this analysis, the study would
prepare recommendations on policy reforms and alternative cost containment
strategies in the pharmaceutical field.  During negotiations. assurances were
obtained that Government would undertake studies in the areas of drug
o rocurement and oricinci.  The results of these studies would then be reviewed
with the Bank and agreed recommendations would be carried out as aoprooriate
(nara. 9.02d).
NUTRITION (Annex 8), US$6.4 million, including contingencies, 6 percent of
total project costs.
5.18    Building on PAAMI experience, nutrition interventions to be financed
under the project would be an integral part of the basic primary health care
package to be provided in health facilities of project areas.  The integration
of health and nutrition interventions for groups at highest risk proposed for
the project is considered to be a cost-effective approach for addressing
Ecuador's twin problems of poor health and malnutrition among children and
pregnant and lactating mothers because children who are born malnourished are
more susceptible to childhood illnesses like measles, whooping cough,
respiratory infections, and diarrbeal disorders. The aim of the nutrition
component would be to improve the overall nutritional status of pregnant and
breast-feeding women, and children under the age of three, by supporting:
(a) nutrition education and promotion; (b) growth monitoring and counselling
to those in need; and (c) provision of food supplementation and
micronutrients.
5.19    Nutrition Education and Promotion.  The objective of this activity
would be to improve nutritional practices among the general population,
particularly changing behaviors with respect to breast-feeding and infant
feeding, dietary quality, and hygiene. To this end, the project would first
support training for health personnel so that they would become effective
disseminators of nutritional messages. A local professional team previously
trained in lactation management in an international center would be in charge
of this activity. Once trained, health workers would provide nutritional
counselling as part of routine health care to be offered at local health
service area facilities and at the household level. The project would
finance: 36 workshops for health workers, 24 in the second year of the
project, and 4 annually in the remaining years of project implementation; and
72 additional follow-up workshops to reinforce the first set of workshops, 24
annually beginning in the second year of project implementation. Second, the
project would support the development of nutrition-related messages and
materials, including mass media campaigns. A professional social marketing
firm in consulLation with the MOH advisory group on infant feeding would be in
charge of nutrition education strategy development and implementation; the
experience acquired by MOH in implementing a cholera-related education
campaign would be taken into account in designing the campaign. Included
among the themes of the campaign would be information on breast-feeding and
infant feeding, dietary quality, and hygiene. To support these two



- 30 -
activities, special educational materials would be developed by MOH for
distribution to the general public.
5.20    Under this strategy, emphasis would be placed on the dissemination of
information on appropriate breast-feeding practices to both health personnel
and the general population. Although breast-feeding practices in Ecuador are
better that in other similar Latin American countries, the general consensus
within MOH is that the practice is declining among women within urban areas
and in the middle- to high-income groups due to inadequate hospital practices
(e.g., lack of or inappropriate counseling by health personnel) and the
incorporation of women in work activities outside the household. To promote
breast-feeding among lactating women, health personnel would be specially
trained during the implementation of the training activities indicated on
para. 5.19, and the nutrition-related media campaigns targeted to the general
population would include messages about appropriate breast-feeding practices.
Additionally, breast-feeding practices of mothers with children aged one,
three, and six months would be monitored as part of regular nutritional
surveillance in local health facilities.
5.21    Growth Monitoring.  Growth monitoring, when used to target
counselling and other support, is one of the key interventions for improving
the health of children. Likewise, monitoring the nutritional status of
pregnant and lactating mothers is an essential intervention for identifying
beneficiaries of food supplementation programs, and reducing infant mortality.
The project, therefore, would focus on strengthening the capability of MOH
personnel for growth monitoring and counselling to these target populations.
Health personnel would be trained in this skill during the workshops listed in
para. 5.19 and would be required to monitor routinely children and women as
part of the delivery of integrated primary health care services. The project
would finance the procurement of scales and measuring tapes, as well as the
design and production of growth cards for children and pregnant women. WHO
growth monitoring norms would be used to detect malnutrition among children
under 3 years of age (defined by weight gain or lack thereof), and the Rosso-
Mardones norm would be used to identify malnutrition among pregnant women
(i.e., women with weight-for-height under 95% of standard weight at the
beginning of the pregnancy and less than 120% of standard weight at the end of
the pregnancy are classified as underweight or malnourished). During
preparation of growth cards specific recommendations on weight gains would be
reached. In addition, the project would ensure that the collection, analysis
and use of nutrition-related information be compatible with the requirements
of the Nutritional Surveillance System (SISVAN), currently being implemented
by CONADE with UNICEF support for nationwide monitoring and evaluation of
nutritional status (i.e., two standard deviations of weight-for-age would be
used as the cutoff to define malnutrition).
5.22    Provision of Food SuDilements and Micronutrients.  A pilot food
supplementation scheme for all children between 6 and 36 months of age and
pregnant and lactating women in project areas would be established. In
supporting this activity, the overall objective would be to evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of food supplementation on health services use by the poorer
segments of the population, who are at most risk of malnutrition. To this
end, the project would support the undertaking of an evaluation study during
the third year of project implementation (see Annex 8 and Action Plan, Annex



- 31 -
11).  During neaotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would
undertake the evaluation otudy, review with the Bank the corresnondinc
recommendations  and carry out as aonronriate the measures agreed with the
Bank (para. 9.02d). If the pilot experience is successful, the proposed food
supplementation scheme would continue to operate in project areas and
eventually would be replicated in the entire country. Under this scheme, each
beneficiary would receive a low-cost food product according to a programmed
schedule of visits to local health facilities. The cost per beneficiary per
year would be about US$9.60. During these visits, participants in the food
supplementation scheme would receive other services, such as immunizations,
early detection and treatment of diseases, and health and nutrition education.
5.23    A second complementary targeted food supplementation scheme would
also be supported to substitute for PAAMI in project areas, with the idea of
expanding it to the rest of the country. Under this scheme, food packages
(see Annex 8) would be distributed to those children between the ages of 6 and
36 months as well as pregnant and lactating women identified as malnourished
through routine growth monitoring activities in health facilities until they
overcome the problem (para. 5.21). Once recovered, beneficiaries would
graduate from this scheme. The distribution of these packages, like those of
the pilot scheme (para. 5.22), would take place at local health facilities.
The cost of six packages to be distributed per year to malnourished pregnant
and lactating women is estimated at about US$33. The cost of six annual
packages for malnourished children between 6 and 36 months of age is estimated
at about US$18.60. The mix of food products included in the packages is
justified by its balanced contribution of nutrients, and it would not have a
negative impact on breast-feeding practices because none of the food products
to be distributed to lactating mothers can be tolerated by children under the
age of six months. In addition, therapeutic feeding of malnourished children
under six months of age would be included in the basic maternal and child care
program. The project would support a study to evaluate the impact of the
targeted scheme on the nutritional status of women, and the possibility of
adjusting the size and/or changing the mix of food products included in the
packages, starting on the second year of project implementation (see Annex 8,
and Action Plan, Annex 11). Durina necotiations assurances were obtained that
the Government would undertake the evaluation study. review with the Bank the
corresoondina recommendations. and carry out as annrooriate the measures
agreed with the Bank (oara. 9.02d).
5.24    A registry would be set up by MOH's Nutrition Division in each
facility for monitoring program beneficiaries and for stock control.
Effectiveness of the two schemes in achieving their objectives in the project
health areas would be closely monitored and studied consistent with the
methodologies of the evaluation activities described in para. 5.21. The
existing NOH's food production plant could play an important role in producing
inputs for these schemes if its operation performance improves. A
prefeasibility study prepared by the Government and presented to the Bank
recommends involving the private sector in operating the food production
plant.  Durina neaotiations. assurances were obtained that the olant could be
an eliaible suDolier of food sunolements only after it is orivatized (para.
.202e)o
5.25    In addition, the project would fund the establishment of a program



- 32 -
for the distribution at local health facilities of micronutrients to pregnant
women and children between the ages of 6 and 36 months. Feasibility studies
would be conducted to deterrine whether food commodities can be fortified with
the necessary micronutrients and to determine whether alternative food stuffs
should be included in the food supplementation schemes (see Action Plan, Annex
11). It is expected that the studies would be undertaken during the first
months of project implementation. If fortification is deemed infeasible,
iron, folic acid and vitamin C tablets would be distributed under the project.
To monitor anemia status in project areas, the measurement of hematocrit
levels in all pregnant women and children at risk under two years of age would
be undertaken as part of regular activities at local health facilities. The
measurement would take place during the first pre-natal consultation, and
would be repeated before delivery in cases where anemia has been diagnosed.
For children under two years of age, one measurement would be undertaken
during the second year of life. Durina necotiaticns. assurances were obtained
that the Government would carrv out the ricronutrient sunplementation
evaluation according to the timetable aareed with the Bank. would review the
evaluation with the Bank and aaree^: recommendations would be imDlemented
(para. 9.02d). The proposed project would not support goiter-related
interventions since MOH's efforts in this area are already fully supported by
the Government of Belgium. It would also not support vitamin A-related
interventions because vitamin A deficiency is not a widespread problem in
Ecuador.
BASIC SANITATION AND SAFE WATER (Annex 9), US$13.2 million, including
contingencies, 13 percent of total project costs.
5.26    This component would assist tbo country in establishing a system to
improve access to safe water and sanitation facilities (mostly latrines) in
rural areas. The improvement of basic sanitation services is a necessary
complement to the provision of primary health care and targeted nutrition
supplements for achieving reduced mortality and morbidity in project areas.
However, successful world wide and regional experiences in this area are
limited, and current institutional capacity in Ecuador for delivery of basic
sanitation services in rural areas, as in many other countries, is weak
(paras. 2.22, 3.15, and 4.12). Accordingly, the basic sanitation component of
the project is designed as a pilot that would tesL alternative decentralized
organizational forms for delivering services. Based on the experience gained
reforms in the institutional structure and capacity for provision of basic
sanitation services would be implemented emphasizing the sustainability and
the effective use of facilities. The component would be directed to rural
areas because they (45 percent of the national population in 1990) suffer from
the highest deficits in water and sanitation (water supply coverage is about
35 percent in rural areas as compared to about 75 percent in urban areas);
also, Bank Loan 3285-EC for Municipal and Infrastructure Development is
assisting in the provision of water and sanitation in urban areas.
5.27 To test decentralized implementation, responsibilities for executing
activities would be at the provincial level. Each of the six provinces would
have a responsible executing agency. In four cases --Azuay, Chimborazo, Loja,
and Pichincha-- this would be the Provincial Directorate of IEOS. In the
province of Guayas, the implementing agency would be the Provincial Health
pirectorate of Guavas (CPSG).  In Manabi, it would be the Centro de



- 33 -
Rehabilitaci6n de ManabI (CRM), a regional developme.at corporation. Execution
of agreements with IEOS and CRM would be a condition of effectiveness (Dara.
9.0Lb). During the first three years of project implementation, several
institutional models for providing decentralized basic sanitation services
would be tested (one model per province). The four models proposed (see Annex
10) differ mainly in the role of IEOS. One model preserves its role as direct
implementer of most tasks. The other models focus the role of IEOS on
coordination, supervision, facilitation, and technical support.
Implementation of major tasks, including promotion, community organization,
construction supervision, and health education would be assigned to NGOs,
private fixms, and other specialized organizations.
5.28 Technical solutions under the component would vary according to
socioeconomic as well as other local conditions. Two basic service levels
would be applied for water supply systems: (a) communities of 250 to 1,000
inhabitants would receive improved wells, handpumps, and simple gravity
systems with communal taps; and (b) communities of 1,000 to 2,000 persons
would receive gravity systems, wells with submersible pumps, and, in limited
cases, systems extracting surface water by pumping. All would have
distribution networks connected to communal standpipes or house connections.
Prototype designs for seven basic technological options have been prepared,
ranging in cost from US$16 to US$84 per capita. Latrines would be either VIP
(ventilated improved pit) or, where an adequate supply of water is available
near the house, the manual discharge, water-seal type. Provisions would be
made in latrine designs for different soil conditions. The average investment
cost for latrines is estimated to be US$12 per capita (US$60 per family).
Durinci negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would follow
the Dreliminarv desians aareed with the Bank for the 20 new and 8 ucaraded
water systems to be constructed durina the first year (para. 9.02f).
5.29   After three years of implementation and under the mid-project review
(para. 7.20), an in-depth evaluation of the provincial-level trials would be
carried out, with the objective of reformulating, as needed, the decentralized
operational structure for delivery of rural water and sanitation services (see
Action Plan, Annex 11). The resulting improved structure would be applied to
the remaining two years of the component (second stage) and to the preparation
of a new large-scale basic sanitation project. If pursuant to the annual or
mid-term reviews to be held for this project, satisfactory action plans are
either not presented or not carried out for the basic sanitation and safe
water component, the Bank may suspend disbursements for such component. To
complement the results of the practical experience in addressing sectoral
issues, an institutional study of the entire rural water and sanitation sector
would be done in parallel (see Action Plan, Annex 11). This study would focus
on IEOS. Its objective would be to develop recommendations on reforming the
public sector's role and performance in this field. The emphasis would be on
creating a smaller, more efficient government agency whose role would be
normative, not operational. The study would be carried out within the first
six months of the project.  During neaotiations. assurances were obtained that
the Government would undertake the sanitation sector institutional study as
well as the evaluation of the models used for the crovincial trials, review
with the Bank the correspondinci recommendations. and carry out as anwronriate
the measures agreed with the Bank (nara. 9.02dL.



- 34 -
5.30   Under this component, the project would finance: (a) construction of
water supply facilities and latrines for 165 communities of between 250 and
2,000 inhabitants in six provinces; (b) upgrading of 42 existing rural water
supply systems; (c) establishment of Provincial Maintenance Centers in the six
provinces; (d) technical assistance and training for staff of IEOS and other
institutions which will be involved in the component, and for the users'
committees, which will administer the facilities; (e) technical assistance for
project implementation and related institutional strengthening, studies of
institutional restructuring and cost recovery, plus an inventory of rural
water and sanitation systems; and (f) equipment, 6 jeeps and 12 motorcycles.
The pilot program is expected to benefit about 172,000 persons, 138,400 of
these with new water supply facilities and 33,600 with upgraded water systems.
All beneficiary families would be provided latrines.
5.31   Cost recovery under the component plays the dual role of signaling
interest on the part of the users and enhancing the prospects for operational
sustainability of investments. Fox water supply facilities, users would be
required to contribute a minimum of 30 percent of investment costs in cash,
labor, and/or local materials. Users in communities electing water systems
with individual house connections would be required to contribute 30 percent
of the cost of a system with communal standpipes plus pay (in cash) the full
cost of the house connection with meter. Monthly tariffs paid by the users
would fully finance the costs of operation, maintenance, and depreciation.
For latrines, users contribution would equal about 50 percent of the
investment cost (see Action Plan, Annex 11). DurinQ negotiations. assurances
were obtained that the Government would follow the cost-recoverv arranaements
aareed with the Bank (nara. 9.02c).
5.32 One of the key criteria for selection of communities to participate in
the project would be their demand for services, as expressed by willingness to
pay according to cost-recovery policies. Communities would be preselected for
investments on the basis of need (priority would be given to areas identified
as having worse-than-average health indicators, as per the overall project),
size and socioeconomic levels (a representative sample of communities with
between 250 and 2,000 inhabitants and with varying income levels would be
selected), and availability of an adequate water source. The preselected
communities would pass through a participatory evaluation of the potential
beneficiaries' ability and willingness to pay for water and sanitation
services. This would determine if water and sanitation are perceived
priorities and, if so, which level of service is affordable. Communities have
been chosen for the first year of project implementation. Durina
neaotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would aoolv the
criteria aireed with the Bank for selection of communities durina the
remainina years (nara. 9.Q2a).-
5.33 Sustainability and effective use of new facilities would be established
through a strong community promotion, organization, and health education
program. These activities would be carried out by extension workers from IKOS
or other implementing organizations during the identification, pre-
construction, construction, ord post-construction stages.  Community
administration committees would be formed and trained to collect tariffs and
perform routine maintenance and minor repairs. The project would finance the
cost of training for extension workers as well as their travel and per diem



- 35 -
costs for visits to the communities. Training of staff would be carried out
through the technical assistance and training program under this component.
5.34   Technical assistance for the component includes 5.7 person-years of
consultants and 18 person-years of local consultant services. The government
has agreed that UNDP/Ecuador would administer technical assistance, training,
and procurement of equipment for the water and sanitation component under a
Management Services Agreement. In addition, UNDP/Ecuador would cofinance the
technical assistance program for about US$500,000. This UNDP contribution
would allow special expertise from the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation
Program (a global technical assistance program) to be provided to support the
execution of this component and to provide assistance for development of the
water and sanitation sector in Ecuador. Submission of a sianed agreement with
UNDP. acceptable to the Bank. for the implementation of the technical ard
training proaram of the basic sanitation component would be a Loan
Effectiveness condition (nara. 9.03c).
SECTORAL POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (Annex 10), US$12.8 million,
including contingencies, 13 percent of total project costs.
5.35    The component closely complements other project components, in
particular the basic health care component, and will enhance the long-term
capacity of MOH and of the health sector for making better use of its
resources and for planning and implementing :mprovements in the sector. The
component aims at strengthening decision-making processes by improving
management and resource allocation capacity both in MOH and in its
decentralized units at the national, provincial, and local levels, and by
contributing to intrasectoral coordination, particularly between MOH and IESS.
The component would also strengthen MOH's capacity to implement project
activities, by financing consultants and other related expenditures for the
Project Coordinating Unit. Activities are grouped under three major areas:
(a) developing the institutional bases for decentralization; (b) staff
development; and (c) studies plus sector monitoring and impact evaluation.
5.36    Develoning the Institutional Bases for Decentralization.  To
consolidate a health care system based on local health service areas in the
long-term would require introduction of sustainable changes of MOHWs
management and operational institutional strategies. Emphasis would be
shifted from central and provincial to local administrative levels, and from
curative care to health promotion and disease prevention interventions.
Strengthening of local organizational, administrative, and financial processes
and concomitant changes required at the central and provincial levels to
ensure efficient and ..ffective operation of facilities would be addressed. To
this end, activities are grouped under three headings: (a) defining
decentralized organizational arrangements; (b) establishing a budget
programming system; and (c) designing a supporting management information
system.
5.37    For defining new decentralized organizational arrangements and
preparing a plan of action for implimentation, this area of the project would
provide about 50 staff-months of technical assistance (2 staff-months of an
international consultant and 4 staff-years of national consultants) that would



- 36 -
support:  (a) review of present MOH's central, provincial, and local
organization, and administrative processes and instruments at each level;
(b) collecting the list of core reforms needed to establish the managerial
capacity needed at each level to implement decentralized service provision and
the corresponding set of legal measures required to enact selected reforms and
promotion of their adoption; (c) development of administrative and operational
instruments, and standardized procedures and norms for the administration of
human and physical resources, as well as preparation of the corresponding
manuals and other informational materials. In-service training for
implementing organizational changes would be provided to the MOH staff
involved in the decentralization process to enable them to handle their
changed or increased responsibilities.
5.38    Establishing a budget programming system for the sector would provide
an appropriate tool for a more efficient allocation of resources, in line with
the priorities set forth in the proposed project. Such a system would have
basic budgetary and cost information flowing from the decentralized local and
operational units to the provincial directorates and the MOH and facilitate
budget monitoring. Responsibilities at the central, provincial, and local
levels would be redefined and implemented to ensure that budget preparation is
initiated at the local level, that allocation of financial resources
(including those that traditionally have been extra-budgetary resources) among
different programs and the country's provinces follow objective and
transparent criteria, and that financial accounting procedures are in place
for monitoring resource use. Technical Assistance (30 staff-months of
international consultants and 8 staff-years of national consultants) would be
financed to design the system and produce the corresponding operational
manuals and complementary materials. Coordination between the MOH financial
directorate and budget authorities outside of MONH (MOF and CONADE) would also
be within the scope of this subcomponent, with MOP and CONADE staff who work
on health sector budgets participating in the training activities. Training
would be conducted for staff from MOH, MOF and CONADE at the central level and
MOH staff at the provincial and local levels.
5.39    To provide the appropriate informational base needed for the
organizational framework discussed in paras. 5.35-5.37 above, a management
information system would be developed. Activities to be supported in this
field are: (a) strengthening of the existing MOH's health information system;
emphasis would be placed on standardizing procedures for the collection of a
streamlined set of data, and for ensuring that information would be used and
analyzed to contribute to sectoral programming processes; (b) development of a
cost analysis system to identify actual service costs at all levels and for
enhancing cost evaluation and control processes; and (c) design and
establishment of a microplanning system for programming of decentralized
services, including aggregation at the provincial level, to be used also in
relation to budgetary processes. Use of combined data from the separate
subsystems for decision-making appears in para. 5.44. Under this
subcomponent, the loan would finance 35 staff-months of technical assistance
(including local consultant services) and equipment and materials (mainly
computers) with corresponding support services (see Action Plan, Annex 11).
Durina negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
prepare the timetables for develonina and establishing each of the subsystems
of the MIS before March 31, 1993 (para. 9.02h).



- 37 -
5.40    Sector Staff Develogment.  Reorienting the health services delivery
system as proposed (paras. 5.07-5.10) requires the introduction,
implementation, and consolidation of significant changes in the size,
distribution, attitudes, and skill of sector staff. This means redeployment
of staff (para. 5.12) and policy changes with budgetary implications (para.
6.03). This subcomponent, therefore, aims at developing sector staff by
supporting a human resources mobilization program that would: (a) identify
staff reassignments in managerial and administrative areas needed in addition
to those presented in para. 5.12; (b) develop personnel management systems;
and (c) contribute to the application of appropriate salary scales, consistent
with the achievement of project and program objectives, with emphasis on the
existence of an appropriate environment for practitioners of basic health
care. Complementary activities that would support further staff development
for the best performers in the medium-term are: (a) an in-service training
program mainly for staff involved in (i) administration, management, and
finance of basic health care services, and (ii) implementation of the policy
and institutional strengthening project component; (b) a long-term continuing
education program for upgrading sectoral human resources, with involvement of
universities and other specialized institutions.
5.41    The loan would finance the training of staff, particularly at the
local level. This training would include (a) short-term scholarships for
about 100 managerial staff; (b) in-service training for about 600
administrative staff; (c) continuing education workshops for about 100 staff
working 1i the management information system area; and (d) training equipment
and materia.s.
5.42    Studies and Sector Monitorinc and Evaluation.  This subcomponent
would enhance institutional changes in the long-run for the delivery of KOH
health services by financing studies on priority issues especially in terms of
improving resource allocation. The three areas of analysis agreed are:
(a) user fees-for-services and the role of cost-recovery and alternative
payment mechanisms in sectoral finance and resuurce allocation, respectively;
(b) rehabilitation of the hospital system and the respective financial plan;
and (c) interinstitutional coordination between MOH and IESS (see Action Plan,
Annex 11). In addition, studies using MIS information to assess sector
programs and their general impact would also be undertaken.
5.43    While cost-recovery would be used in specific project activities
(para. 5.16 regarding drugs and para. 5.31 regarding water systems), there is
little knowledge on how cost-recovery mechanisms could be introduced in the
delivery of other services under the project. Proposed studies would, on the
basis of LSMS information, assess the impact that alternative fee schedules
for different services would have on the use of these services by different
social/income groups, and the impact on sector finances. The studies would
then make specific recommendations regarding the fees to be used. In
addition, proposed studies would assess different payment mechanisms that
could be introduced for providing incentives to providers for improving
quality of care, particularly in underserved areas, limiting cost escalation,
excessive allocation of resources to ourative care, and use of inappropriate
medical technology. Although effectiveness of the hospital system is poor
(para. 3.05), a comprehensive diagnostic of the situation, including physical,
human, financial, and managerial resources, does not exist, either for
I .. .              ..          



- 38 -
individual hospitals or the system as a who      The project would finance
studies required to fill this gap specifically to develop recommendations
about how a deeper crisis could be prevented. In the area of coordination
between MOH and IESS, studies related to the production, financing, and
delivery of health care services would be undertaken, especially focusing on
identifying areas where MOH and IESS can make specific agreements for joint
actions and other types of collaboration.
5.44    To monitor sector performance and more particularly project program
performance, the project would finance the development of mechanisms for using
data generated under the MIS (para. 5.34) and for promoting the flow of
monitoring information through the appropriate institutional channels. Impact
evaluation would also be financed using MIS data and information from the
Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS), performed by the National
Employment Institute (INEM) under Bank Loan 3425-EC for the First Social
Development Project (see Annex 10-1, and Action Plan, Annex 11). Budget for
activities under the subcomponent is US$1.7 million, of which US$500,000 would
be contributed from a technical cooperation grant from IDB.   Durina
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would undertake the
studies. review with the Bank the corresoondina recommendations. and carry
out. as annro=riate. the measures aareed with the Bank (nara. 9.02d).
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Proiect Costs
6.01    The estimated cost for the proposed MOH medium-term health sector
investment program, covering 16 provinces and 71 health areas would be US$160
million to be spent over a seven year period. The Bank's proposed project
covers 40 health areas at _n estimated cost of US$102.2 million equivalent,
or about 64 percent of the total estimated cost of the medium-term investment
program (Annex 14). The IDS would finance the remaining portion of the
investment program beginning in 1994, at the earliest (para. 5.04). Annex 16
includes a summary of the full investment program and proposed financing
arrangements.
6.02    The total project cost includes physical and price contingencies, and
taxes and duties of US$6.5 million. An estimated US$31.4 million would be
foreign exchange. Investment costs amount to 56 percent of base costs and
incremental recurrent costs amount to 44 percent of base costs. Project costs
were estimated at January 1,92 price levels and include physical contingencies
of 6 percent for new construction and 10 percent for civil works
rehabilitation, and 5 percent for equipment, furniture, and vehicles. Price
contingencies were calculated at 3.7 percent per year for 1992-97.
6.03    Estimated construction costs for the project area are based on unit
prices derived from current contracts and costs analyses for similar standards
of construction in corresponding health facilities. Estimated health center
rehabilitation costs were calculated based on a study, done on a sample basis,
of rehabilitation requirements. Estimated unit costs of medical,
odontological, and office equipment, furniture and vehicles are based on local
market prices. Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on
current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost estimates for training,



- 39 -
salaries, travel allowances, and other operating costs are based on current
costs or costing standards used by MOH.
Table 6.1: Ecuador - Second Social Develolment Proiect.
Health and Nutrition
Estimated Proiect Costs
(In millions of US$)
Summary Accounts              Local     Foreicn    Total
Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                  9.1        5.3      14.4
B. Furniture and Equipment      3.0        9.0      12.0
C. Vehicles                     0.6        0.8       1.4
D. Studies and Tech. Assist.   6.3         3.1       9.4
E. Public Campaigns             0.9       0.6        1.5
F. Training                     5.7        0.9       6.6
G. Incentives                   3.1        0.0       3.1
H. Purchasing Agents & Audits  0.1         1.3       1.4
Subtotal                    28.8       21.0      49.8
Recurrent Costs
A. Human Resources             21.6        0.0      21.6
B. Pharmaceuticals & Supplies  3.9         4.7       8.6
C. Food Program                 2.5        0.6       3.1
D. Maintenance                  3.8        0.4       4.2
E. Other Op:rating Costs        1.1        0.4       1.5
Subtotal                    32.9        6.1      39.0
Total Baseline Costs        61.7       27.1      88.8
Physical Contingencies    0.8         0.9       1.7
Price Contingencies        8.3        3.4      11.7
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS         70.8       31.4     102.2
B. Incremental Recurrent Costs
6.04    During the implementation period, tho project would add an average of
about US$6.4 million per year to the recurrent expenditures budget of MOH.
Annual incremental operating costs generated by the project at completion are
estimated in 1992 prices at US$12 million. This increase, which includes
contingencies, represents about 10 percent of the latest estimated NOH budget
for year 1991. The incremental operating costs would be generated by
incremental salaries for health workers, purchase of medicines and medical
supplies, office supplies, and operation and maintenance of civil works,
medical and office equipment ai2d vehicles. In addition, recurrent costs would
be generated by the establishment of a civil works and equipment maintenance



- 40 -
system within MOH and distribution of food supplementation to pregnant and
lactating mothers and children under 3 years of age. While the proposed
changes would be substantive, implementation is feasible with a modest
increase in the sector budget of about 0.5 percent of the total public budget
and an internal reallocation of 5 percent of the sector budget. Cost-recovery
and other recommendations in the area of pharmaceuticals could provide
additional resources.
Recurrent Cost Financing
(in USS millions)
Year
92      93    94    95    96    97    98  Total
Total Cost              1.4     3.2   5.1   6.5   9.1  11.9   7.5 a/ 44.7
Bank Financing          1.4     3.2   3.1   3.9   5.5   2.6   1.5    21.2
Government Financing    0        0    2.0   2.6   3.6   9.3   6.0    23.5
a/ Final year of project consolidation includes only six months of
expenditures.
C. Financing Plan
6.05    The project would finance a portion of the health sector investment
program through a proposed Bank loan of US$70 million. The UNDP/Ecuador would
contribute US$500,000 to cofinance technical assistance for the water and
sanitation component of the project. Execution of a grant aareement with
UNDP. would be an effectiveness condition ;n,,ra. 9.03c).  The remaining
US$31.7 million would be financed by the Government of Ecuador. The loan
would finance about 72 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and
duties, resulting from financing 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures
and 55 percent of local expenditures. To facilitate project start-up
activities, such as those related to consultant employment and preparation of
technical and bidding specifications for computer and office equipment, and
health subcenter and center construction, the Bank would authorize retroactive
financing of up to US$5 million equivalent to help cover eligible start-up
expenditures made on or after January 24, 1992.
6.06    There is a commitment from the Government to ensure that this
expansion is effected; however, significant increases will be required to the
MOH budget.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that. in order to
ensure that MOH is oronerlv resource.i. the Government and the Bank would
undertake an annual review- during the third auarter each Year. of MOH budaet
and oroiect ex3enditures oroposals for the forthcomina year. During the
review, the Government would grovide assurances that the overall level of
budget resources allocated to oublic health 2roarams would suffice to finance
adequatelv: (i) the protect year-b-y_ear. including incremental recurrent
exnenditures: (ii) MOH exnenditures reauired to ex=and activities similar to
those of the oroiect beyond the 40 local health service areas covered by the
proiect, if MOH onto for such excansion: and (iii) amounts oer year no less
than those exoended by MOH in 1991. Each such review would conclude with the



- 41 -
finrAlizati.on of %.n- annual plan of acqtion to be- carried out-by the-Borrower
during the yegr_ oediately subsea.,ent to the review (Iara. 9.02i).
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Organization
7.01    The project would be undertaken within the legal and organizational
framework of Ecuador's MOH. The project organization would have three levels:
the central level, represented by MOH, which would have overall responsibility
for project coordination and implementation; the provincial level, represented
by the Provincial Health Departments (or the alternative provincial
institution for the water and sanitation component), which would be
responsible for assisting in executing the project in their respective
Provinces; and the local health service areas (community organizations in the
case of the water and sanitation component), which would be responsible for
the production and delivery of primary health care services (see Annex 12 for
a detailed discussion of the roles and responsibilities of each of these three
levels).
B. Proiect Management and Coordination
7.02    Project implementation would be carried out within the existing
organizational structure of MOH through units whose operational and
administrative responsibilities are directly linked to project components (see
Annex 12). Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Minister of Health who would be supported in general policy development
and institutional coordination by a Committee of Directors of MOH. To assist
in the oversight of project implementation, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
was established by redefining the organization and functions of the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) (see para. 7.03). It is anticipated that the PCU, with
additional resources, would also be in charge of coordinating implementation
of the remaining portion of the Investment Program to be financed by IDB.
7.03    The PCU would be staffed by a Coordinator and consultants, both local
and international (see Annex 12). The Coordinator would report directly to
the Minister of Health. The PCtU would serve as the :inkage between the
project and other MOH units responsible for technical programs as well as with
Provincial Health Departments and MOH's autonomous agencies, such as CEMBIM
and IBOS. The PC: would employ technical consultants that would support and
monitor technical execution of project components, and an &fninistrator that
would manage and coordinate procurement, consultant contracting, accounting
and financial aspects of the project. Technical specialists would be
contracted to work in the areas of basic health care and nutrition, safe water
and sanitation, infrastructure, and institutional strengthening. The
Government furnished the Bank a copy of Ministerial Resolution No. 14107 dated
May 15, 1992, establishing the PCU (para. 9.01).
7.04    The PCU would assist, coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the
activities of the following participating entities:
(a) The newly established Directorate of Basic Health Care Services at
the central level, Provincial Health Departments, and Local Health



- 42 -
Service Areas for the implementation of the integrated primary health
care program;
(b) The Planning and Personnel Directorates, Provincial Health
Departments, and Local Health Service Areas in the hiring and
redeployment of health service personnel;
(c) The Personnel Directorate, School of Public Health and Universities
of Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca, Provincial Health Departments and
Local Health Service areas for the delivery of specialized training
of basic health personnel;
(d) CEMEIM for the implementation of the pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies program;
(e) The Nutritional Directorate and Local Health Service Areas for
implementation of the nutrition component;
(f) The Provincial Health Depa.:tments, IEOS offices at the provincial
level, and selected NGOs for implementation of the sanitation
component; and,
(g) The Planning and Budgeting Directorates at the central level, the
Pror,incial Health Departments, and the Local Health Service Areas for
implementation of institutional strengthening activities.
7.05    The PCL is deemed an appropriate mechanism to ensure efficiency in
project implementation while retaining implementation authority in the
respective line and staff departments of MOH. Financing of the PCU's
activities is included under the respective institutional strengthening
activities of each component, and includes funds (US$200,000 equivalent) for
paying regular MOH staff for their incremental work on the project to the
extent not covered by their salaries. Durinc' neootiations. assurances were
obtained that the PCU would be oermanentlv staffed for the duration of the
oro-lect (para. 9.021).
7.06    Procurement ImDlementation Procedures.  The PCU administrator and
his/her staff would manage and coordinate procurement of goods and services
with support of procurement agente. Procurement for health facilities design,
construction, and supervision would be done individually or in packages of 1-5
health facilities by procurement agents, by the provincial offices of IEOS or
by the Provincial Health Departments. Medical and office equipment and
furniture for the health facilities would be procured by the PCU with support
from a procurement agent; whenever possible the distribution would be included
as a service to be provided by suppliers. Vehicles would be procured at the
central level. Procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other
medical supplies would be carried out by CEMNIM during the first two years of
project implementation; at the project's mid-term review, CEMEIM performance
would be assessed in conjunction with alternative procurement and distribution
arrangements, and a decision made on the arrangement to be used for the
following years of project implementation. Procurement of low-cost office
supplies would be done by the Provincial Health Departments and health centers
and subcenters. The health facilities would also manage a small budget for



- 43 -
routine maintenance of buildings and equipment, as well as for furniture
repair. Training programs would be contracted with local universities and
private institutions who would receive support from available MOH trainers.
Training materials would be developed by MOH and the universities with
specialized technical assistance. Procurement and distribution of food would
be done by procurement agents through LCB. Procurement of equipment and
materials f   the water and sanitation systems would be done by UNDP or the
provincial offices of IEOS/Provincial Health Departments/selected NGOs,
assisted by UNDP, in accordance with the corresponding model chosen (paras.
5.27 and 5.34). Training of community organization promoters and the Juntas
de Administraci6n would be undertaken by IEOS staff with technical assistance
support. Technical assistance would be contracted by a procurement agent.
C. Procurement
7.07    Procurement for civil works, goods, and services would be done in
accordance with Bank guidelines, using standard bidding documents based on
Bank models. The Government has recently enacted new procurement legislation
that resolves past disagreements regarding the precedence of Bank procurement
guidelines over local legislation. The loan agreement for this project would
contain explicit provisions dealing with points of difference, either in
substance or interpretation, between Bank guidelines and Ecuadoran
legislation. For efficiency in implementing procurement in compliance with
Bank procurement policies and procedures, the executing agency would retain
the services of UNDP/Ecuador as a procurement agent/technical assistance
agent. PARO would act as a technical assistance management agent mainly for
the basic health care and nutrition components.  Procurement and distribution
of food products and micronutrients would be done, with the assistance of the
procurement agent, through LCB. The selection and appointment of consultants
for studies and technical assistance would be consistent with the August 1981
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. MOH has
already had positive experience using multilateral agencies to support them in
implementing several programs, including the Bank's PPF 110-EC and PPF-ll0-l-
EC. The contractina of procurement agent, and technical assistance management
agents. would be a condition of effectiveness (oara. 9.03a). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would contract the
agents agreed with the Bank. and which would assist the Government in the
draftina of bidding documents. acceptable to the Bank (rara. 9.02k).  Project
cost breakdown by procurement method are summarized in the table below.



- 44 -
Procurement Arrangements 1/
(US$ million)
Category                       IC8        LCB      Other           Total
Civil Works                               12.0     5.0 2/            17.0
( 7.2)   (3.0)            (10.2)
Goods
Vehicles                    1.6                                   1.6
(1.6)                                (1.6)
Other Equipment             8.7         2.4      .5              11.6
(8.7)      (2.0)    (.4)            (11.2)
Furniture                                  2.3      0.5 2/           2.8
(2.1)    (0.4)            (2. )
Studies and Technical                              13.7 3/          13.7
Assistance                                        (13.7)           (13.7)
Training                                            7.4              7.4
(7.4)           (7.4)
Materials                                        1.4 2/
Services                                         6.0 3/
Pharmaceuticals and Medical   7.0          1.8      1.0 2/           9.8
Supplies                       (3.5)      (0.9)    (0.5)            (4.9)
Food and Micronutrients                    3.5                       3.5
(2.2)                     (2.2)
Operating Costs                                    31.3 4/5/        31.3
(12.9)          (12.9)
Incentives (one-time bonuses)                        3.5 5/           3.5
(3.5)           (3.5)
TOTAL                         17.3        22.0     62.9            102.2
(13.8)     (14.4)   (41.8)           (70.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts estimated to be financed by the
Bank.
2/ Shopping
3/ Specialized services
4/ On a declining basis
5/ Does not involve procurement
7.08    Civil Works.  It is expected that about 109 urban and 96 rural health
subcenters, and 34 urban health centers and local hospitals would be repaired,
refurbished and built. Aleo the safe water and sanitation program would build



- 45 -
water systems and latrines for about 165 communities (para. 5.22). Because of
their typically modest size and scattered locations, it would not be efficient
to procure these works through international competitive bidding procedures
(ICB). However, any contract for civil works that exceeds the equivalent of
US$1.5 million would be procured on the basis of ICB. Construction, repair,
and refurbishing works costing US$50,000 or less and up to an aggregate of
US$5 million, would be contracted on the basis of price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible contractors. Local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would be used when construction,
refurbishing, and repair works can be grouped in contracts estimated to cost
more than US$50,000. As much as possible, construction of similar types of
civil works (e.g., urban health centers and local hospitals scattered
throughout the country) would be grouped in packages to minimize
administrative costs and to take advantage of contractor specialization.
Individual contract values are expected to cost between US$50,000 to
US$1,500,000. Works to be procured through LCB procedures would not exceed an
aggregate amount of US$12 million.
7.09    Goods.  Equipment and vehicles will be bulk purchased to the extent
possible. Materials and tools for water system and latrine construction would
be purchased in bulk. Packages estimated to cost above US$200,000 would be
procured under ICB. These comprise mostly medical equipment, vehicles
(including maintenance), and computers (including software and maintenance).
Under ICB, local manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference for
purposes of bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Gozds
(including furniture and other equipment) valued at more than US$25S,000 but no
more than US$200,000 would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank, up to an aggregate value of US$4.5 million. Contracts for goods
valued at USS25,000 or less and not exceeding US$1.0 million in aggregate
would be awarded on the basis of comparison of pr:.ce quotations obtained from
at least three eligible suppliers.
7.10    Pharmaceutical products would be procured through ICB.  Other medical
supplies valued at more than US$25,000 but not exceeding US$200,000 would be
procured using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate of
US$1.8 million. Contracts for medical supplies valued at US$25,000 or less
and not exceeding US$1.0 million in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible
suppliers.
7.11    Contracts for printing training materials valued at US$25,000 or less
would be done through local shopping procedures up to an aggregate of US$1.4
million. When the cost exceeds US$25,000 LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be used.
7.12    Prior Review.  All procedures, documents, bid evaluation and contract
awards for ICB procurement would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Civil works procurement contracts above $500,000 would also be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Because LCB bid packages would be too small and
numerous for effective ex-ante review by -he Bank, only the first two LCB
procurement for each of the following would be reviewed ex-ante, regardless of
their value: health center and local hospital construction, refurbishing and
repair, office furniture and equipment, and medical supplies. Also, an ex-



- 46 -
post review of contracts disbursed against SOEs would be conducted during
field supervision on the basis of a 2.5 percent random sampling. The proposed
prior reviews would cover about S0 percent of items subject to procurement
arrangements as presented in the Procurement Arrangements table. This level
would be acceptable given that procurement agents would be used.
D. Disbursemenits
7.13         The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a seven-year
period as follows: (a) civil works, 60 percent of expenditures for new
construction, rehabilitation and repair of health centers and hospitals, as
well as construction, rehabilitation and repair of water systems and latrine
construction; (b) medical, odontological and office equipment, furniture and
vehicles, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; (c) training and training materials, technical
assistance, consultant services, and studies, 100 percent of total
expenditures; (d) public information campaigns, 100 percent of total
expenditures; (e) incentives for redeployed personnel, 100 percent of total
expenditures; (f) pharmaceuticals and medical supplies at a rate of 100
percent until an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million has been reached, and
thereafter, disbursements made at a rate of 60 percent until an aggregate
amount of US$4 million has been reached, the remainder to be disbursed at a
rate of 20 percent; (e) maintenance of health care facilities and equipment,
incremental salaries and operating costs at a rate of 100 percent until an
aggregate amount of US$2.5 million has been reached, thereafter, disbursements
for this category made at a rate of 60 percent until the aggregate amount of
US$10 million has been reached; the remaining funds disbursed at a rate of 20
percent; (h) purchase and distribution of food and nutritional supplements at
a rate of 100 percent until an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million has been
reached, and thereafter, disbursements made at a rate of 60 percent until the
aggregate amount of US$1.5 million has been reached; the remaining funds
disbursed at a rate of 20 percent. PPF 110-SC would be refinanced under the
proposed loan (see Annex 15).
7.14    Proceeds of the proposed loan would b^ disbursed against withdrawal
applications to be fully documented for contracts valued at more than
US$20,000 for consultants and all incremental operating expenditures,
US$100,000 equivalent for goods, and US$500,000 for civil works. Claims for
expenditures of lesser amounts would be disbursed against presentation of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would
be retained by the PCU for periodic inspection by the Bank and by external
auditors. All expenditures and SOEs would be transmitted to the Bank through
the PCU. The Government would set up a Special Account in US dollars at the
State Bank (Banco del Estado) of Ecuador with an initial deposit of US$3.5
million. Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the
required documentation. The closing date of the project would be June 30,
2000.
E. Accounting and Auditing
7.15    Implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts that
would be audited annually by independent auditors, in accordance with



- 47 -
appropriate auditing principles, with terms of reference approved by the Bank.
The audit would include the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures, and
compliance with cost-recovery and procurement objectives. Durino
negotiations. assurances were obtained that audits would be conducted by an
independent crivate auditor acceptable to the Bank (Wara. 9.021).  The MOH is
in the process of developing, with external technical support, a computerized
accounting and financial reporting system for the project. Also, terms of
reference were completed for the contracting of first-year auditors.
F. Status of Protect Precaration
7.16    In September 1991, a preappraisal mission reviewed in detail the
feasibility of the overall health sector investment program, management and
implementation issues, and sectoral issues related to the conditions under
which the program would have the desired eventual impact on increasing the
coverage and the quality of basic health services for the poor. The appraisal
mission, which was undertaken in January 1992, reviewed the major components
of the program and found that, with exception of water and sanitation, all
components were prepared. A follow-up mission finalized work on the water and
sanitation component. As noted before, the basic health care package was
prepared and the project areas selected. Prototype architectural briefs and
preliminary designs of health facilities have been completed. The prototype
designs for all new health facilities that are to go for bidding during the
first two years of project implementation have been adapted to the selected
sites with the support of private consultants. All the facilities to be
expanded and/or repaired, furnished, and equipped during the first two years
of project implementation (8 areas in 6 provinces) have been identified
through an inventory exercise supported by the PPF. Some works have already
been started. MOH has also undertaken a review to determine new personnel
needs in the project areas and the number and type of existing staff that
could be reassigned in the project areas. At the end of the appraisal
mission, as detailed in the Aide Memoire of January 23, 1992, the Bank and the
Government agreed on additional activities to be undertaken before
negotiations. All of them have been completed.
G. Project Monitoring and Sucervision
7.17    overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the
responsibility of the PCU, which will carry out these tasks with foreign and
local technical assistance. Specific tasks include: (a) monitoring of key
project activities to ensure implementation is done according to the agreed
schedule; (b) ensuring that the target population is receiving health care
services; and (c) monitoring timing of budget allocations and expenditures to
ensure adequate and timely use of resources
7.18    In line with project objectives, key indicators would be monitored
annually to track and support improvements in the overall efficiency and
effectiveness of basic health care (see Annex 13, and Annex 10-1). In
addition, selected, well-focused perfornance targets related to improving
coverage, efficiency, and expenditures would be evaluated. Both interim and
final targets would be noted. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government aarees with the taroets and indicators of prolect
oblectives included in the monitoring plan (cara. 9.02m).



- 48 -
7.19    The following are the key indicators and their targets:
(a) increased coverage in designated services (including family planning
programs, pre-natal controls, child delivery by professional staff,
child growth monitoring and development) reaching 30 percent of the
target population in project areas by the mid-project review and 80
percent at project completion;
(b) reduction in infant mortality and maternal mortality of 10 percent by
mid-project review, and of an additional 15 percent upon project
completion, in designated project areas;
(c)  reduced incidence of malnutrition among children under age three in
designated project areas from the present average of 50 percent to 35
percent by mid-project review and to 25 percent at project completion
and similar for pregnant mothers;
(d)  provision of safe water and basic sanitation to 100,000 persons by
mid-project review.
7.20    The results of monitoring would form a central focus in an annual
review of project implementation. This annual review would be conducted
jointly by MOH, MOF, and the Bank. It would assess the previous year's
progress towards achieving expenditures, resource management, and sector
performance targets, and establish targets and schedules for the following
year. Resolution of implementation problems and required adjustments in
project content and targets would also form a basis of the reviews. Durina
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would prenare and
furnish for Bank review, at the end of every six month period during orolect
imolementation. oroi-ect renorrs regardinc: (i) prolect implementation results
and-exoenditures for the or-eceding six months, ad (ii a related review of
achievements and shortfalls based on established olans and obiectives.  The
two reports coverina the prior calendar year shall be consolidated into an
annual report, which shall be the basis of an annual review held by the Bank
and the Borrower in the third auarter of each calendar year durina vrolect
imolementation. Each review shall conclude with the preparation of an annual
plan of action to be carried out by the Borrower during the year followina the
review. A mid-orolect review would be carried out at the beainning of the
fourth year of project implementation to conduct a comorehensive review of all
2rolect comnonents. It would include, in addition. an evaluation of the
effectiveness of orolect inputs in achieving key taraets for imorovina sector
verformance. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would carry out these evaluations (para. 9.02n).
7.21    The project would require more intensive Bank supervision than the
normal 9 to 10 staff weeks per year. This would be especially true for the
first three years, during which the gradual incremental and experimental
approach adopted for expanding the coverage of basic health and nutrition
services, including safe water and sanitation, would permit fine tuning the
design of the service delivery strategy. Supervision arrangements are
therefore expected to result in a requirement of about 20/25 staff-weeks per
year during the first three years of project implementation. In addition,



- 49 -
agencies such as PAHO and UNDP have been contacted to provide additional
support for project supervision (see Annex 17).
H. Environmental Imnact
7.22    The project would have a positive environmental impact as the
coverage of basic sanitation services would be expanided to poor rural
communities. In addition, standard safety procedurea would be followed in the
implementation of civil works, particularly latrine construction, and for the
installation and operation of the medical equipment supplied under the
project. Procedures for safe handling of hazardous wastes and materials
(e.g., disposable needles, blood-contaminated products) would be included in
continuing education programs for health personnel.
I. Impact on Women
7.23    The extension of coverage and the improvement in the quality of basic
health and nutrition services sought by the project would benefit women in a
variety of ways. The delivery of a package of integrated primary care
services would be geared to address the poor health status of women in Ecuador
and to curb maternal and infant mortality through services such as prenatal
care, referral of high risk pregnancies, family planning, and cervical cancer
screening. In addition, the capacity of local health systems to manage
appropriately complications of delivery (the major cause of maternal mortality
as noted on para. 1.09) would be improved by upgrading physical
infrastructure, training personnel, and strengthening the referral network.
The nutrition and sanitation activities would have particular impact on women,
the former one because one of its target groups are pregnant mothers, and the
latter because improved water and sanitation coverage mostly affects the
quality of women's lives in the household. Another important impact derives
from growing labor force participation of women as key health-care providers
(e.g., physicians, nurses, midwives).
VIII. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01    The principal benefits of the proposed project would be increased
human capital accumulation among the poor. This would include low income
rural and urban families that currently lack or have limited access to health
services, who under the project would gain a better chance to improve their
health status. It is expected that project interventions would improve infant
and child survival and maternal health, and reduce the prevalence and severity
of the most common diseases, including cholera. The proposed project would
invest in human capital to strengthen the basis for Ecuador's economic
development, in accordance with the Bank's country strategy. It would help
alleviate poverty into the medium term and contribute to improved income
distribution by targeting basic health and nutrition services to the poor.
Specifically, it would improve the organization and resource base for
delivering a package of integrated primary health care services and for
decentralizing health care administration. Provision of safe water and
sanitation facilities would complement the delivery of primary health care and
targeted nutrition supplements in achieving project objectives. Additionally,



- 50 -
the project would strengthen the capacity and improve the quality of decision-
making, resource allocation, management and evaluation within MOH and its
branches at the central, provincial, and local levels.
B. Risks
8.02    The principal risk involves project implementation, where the
capacity of MOH is weak. This problem may be aggravated by the forthcoming
presidential election and subsequent change of political administration in
1992. The substance of the project components, focussing as they do on
alleviating poverty, is such that they should enjoy continued support from the
Government despite a change in political administration. Intensive
supervision would nonetheless be maintained during the political transition to
ensure clear understanding of and commitment to sustaining the project.
Additionally, the project design incorporates features to overcome
implementation problems that have arisen in earlier projects in Ecuador,
including: (a) the establishment of a small, flexible Project Coordination
Unit, working closely with MOH's different administrative and operational
levels; (b) contracting with specialized international agencies to improve and
facilitate processes of procurement and technical assistance;
(c) incorporation of a gradual incremental implementation approach that
provides the project with desired flexibility; and (d) taking steps during
preparation to build broad and decentralized support for the project among
potential stakeholders and beneficiaries. A second risk concerns the
financial sustainability of the project. Preparatory activities have reviewed
the recurrent cost implications of the project and found that financing is
feasible as long as the Government is prepared to retain a high priority in
the budget for improved basic health services. The project would include
annual sector reviews and project budget reviews during supervision, as well
as a thorough mid-project review. Establishment of cost-recovery schemes
would be part of the project and would contribute to long-run sustainability.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    The Government submitted the following documents for the Bank's
review and agreement: (a) a copy of Presidential Resolution No. 3292
dated April 29, 1992, establishing the local health service areas
(para. 5.04); and (b) a copy of Ministerial Resolution No. 14107
dated May 15, 1992, establishing the Project Coordination Unit (para.
7.03).
9.02    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) site selection for infrastructure development and the
rehabilitation programs after the second year of project
implementation would be presented for Bank review prior to
implementing the corresponding investments (para. 5.11).
(b) the Government would implement the annual programs and
timetables specifying levels of new and redeployed staff agreed
with the Bank (para 5.12).



- 51 -
(c) cost-recovery schemes would be established: (i) for generic
drugs not included in the two MOH free-of-charge pharmaceutical
programs, so that by mid-term review 30 percent of basic drug
costs distributed in project areas would be recovered through
user charges and 35 percent during the May 1996-December 1998
period (para. 5.16); and (ii) for the water and sanitation
programs so as to finance 30 percent of water systems investment
costs, 50 percent of the construction of latrines, and 100
percent of both house connections and maintenance of water
systems (paca. 5.31).
(d) studies would be undertaken in the following areas, in
accordance with the timetables appearing in Annex 11:
(i) drug procurement and pricing (para. 5.17); (ii) food
supplementation schemes (paras. 5.22 and 5.23); (iii)
micronutrient supplementation (para. 5.25); (iv)
institutional arrangements of the sanitation sector (para.
5.29); (v) models used for the water and sanitation provincial
trials (para. 5.29); (vi) user fees-for-services and the role of
cost-recovery and alternative payment mechanisms in sectoral
finance and resource allocation, respectively (paras. 5.42-
5.44); (vii) rehabilitation of the hospital system and the
respective financial plan (paras. 5.42-5.44); and (viii)
interinstitutional coordination between MOH and IESS (paras.
5.42-5.44). The results of these studies would then be reviewed
with the Bank and agreed recommendations would be carried out as
appropriate.
(e)  the food production plant currently owned by the Government
could be an eligible supplier of food supplements only after it
is privatized (para. 5.24).
(f)  the Government would follow the preliminary designs agreed with
the Bank for the 20 new and 8 upgraded water systems to be
constructed during the first year (para. 5.28).
(g)  the Governmeiat would apply the criteria agreed with the Bank for
selection of conmunities for water and sanitation investments
after the first year of project implementation (para. 5.32).
(h)  the timetables for developing and establishing each of the
subsystems of the MIS would be prepared before Narch 31, 1993
(para. 5.39).
(i)  to ensure that MOH is properly resourced, the Government and the
Bank would undertake an annual review, earing the third quarter
each year, of MOH budget and project expenditures for the
forthcoming year. During the review, the Government would
provide assurances that the overall level of budget resources
allocated to public health programs would suffice to finance
adequately: (i) the project year-by-year, including incremental
recurrent expenditures; (ii) MOH expenditures required to expand
activities similar to those of the project beyond the 40 local



-52 -
health service areas covered by the project, if MOH opts for
such expansion; and (iii) amounts per year no less than those
expended by MOH in 1991. Each such review would conclude with
the finalization of an annual plan of action to be carried out
by the Borrower during the year immediately subsequent to the
review (para. 6.06).
(j) the PCU would be permanently staffed for the duration of the
project (para. 7.05).
(k) procurement agent and technical assistance management
agents would be contracted to assist the Government in the
drafting of bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank (para.
7.07).
(1) audits would be conducted by an independent private auditor
acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.15).
(m)  the Government agrees with the targets and indicators of
project objectives included in the monitoring plan (para. 7.18).
(n) the Government would prepare and furnish for Bank review, at the
end of every six month period during project implementation,
project reports regarding: (i) project implementation results
and expenditure for the preceding six months; and (ii) a related
review of achievements and shortfalls based on established plans
and objectives. The two reports covering the immediately prior
calendar year shall be consolidated into an annual report, which
shall be the basis of an annual review held by the Bank and the
Borrower in the third quarter of each calendar year during
project implementation. Each such review shall conclude with
the preparation of an annual plan of action to be carried out by
the Borrower duting the year following the review. A mid-term
review would be carried out at the beginning of the fourth year
of project implementation to conduct a comprehensive review of
all project components. It would include, in addition, an
evaluation of the effectiveness of provision of project inputs
in achieving key targets for improving sector performance.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would carry out these evaluations (para. 7.20).
9.03    For Loan Effectiveness, the Bank would require:
(a)  the contracting of procurement agent and of technical assistance
management agents (para. 7.07).
(b)  the execution of agreements with IEOS and CEM (para. 5.27).
(c)  the execution of a grant agreement with UNDP (para. 6.05 and
para. 5.34).



- 53 -
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - HEALTH AND NUTRITION
ANNEXES 1 THROUGH 17



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BASIC SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS
I. Basic Economic Indicators
As GNP per capita (USS 1988)
B: Income distribution share of household, lowest 201
C: Population below absolute poverty line (percent) 1977-87
;I. Education*
D: Adult Illiteracy rate (percent)
. E: Public Expenditure on Education as S of GNP
F: Public Expenditure on Education as Z of Government
G: Public Expenditure on Education per Student US$-Primary
H: Public Expenditure on Education per Student USS-Scoidhry
I: Public Expenditure on Education per Student USS-Higher Education
III. Health
J: Life Expectancy at birth (years) 1988
A     B   C    D       E       F     G     H       I     J
Argentina        2,520  4.4  19   6.1    1.9    8.9    13   268    408 70.7
Bahamas        10,560  .3.0       10.3   **6.2  17.7   ...   ...  . ... 69.9
Barbados         5,990  7.0        0.7    6.1   17.8   627  .691- 2.604 74.9
Belize           1,490 ...  ..  8.8    ...   15.5   141   363    ... 66.7
Bolivia            570  2.4  85  36.8    0.4   21.3   104   114    ... 53.0
Brazil           2,160  2.0  73  22.2    4.5   17.7   219   246  1.300 65.3
Chile            1,510  4.0  ..   8.9    3.6   15.3   180   158    581 71.6
Colombia         1,240  4.0  70  14.8    2.7   22.4    40    64    322 68.0
Costa Rica       1.690  3.3  34   7.4    4.6   21.6   165   322  1.177 75.0
Dominican Rep.    720  6.0  43  31.4    1.6   10.0    26    31    123 66.0
Ecuador          1.110  2.0  65  10.0    3.5   21.3    81   136    173 65.0
El Salvador        940  5.5  32  30.2    3.0    8.5    96   103    273 63.0
Guatemala          900  5.5  74  45.0    1.8   12.4    54   114    491 62.0
Guyana             420  ...  ..   8.4    9.6    8.1   101    93  2,421 66.1
Haiti              380  ...  80  65.2    1.9   20.6    27    47    547'5.4.7
Honduras           860  6.9  S5  40.5    4.9   19.5   111   176  1,023 64.0
Jamaica          1,060  5.4  80   3.9    5.2   11.0   140   188  2.064 73.0
Mexico           1.770  2.9  49   9.7    3.4   16.2    86    94    989 68.6
Nicaragua          830  3.0  19  42.5    6.2   12.0   271   438  3,150 64.0
Panama           2,130  2.0  30  11.8    5.4   14.3   283   348  1,072 71.9
Paraguay         1.180  ...  S0  12.5    1.5   16.7    45   139    502 66.9
Peru             1,300  4.4  68  18.1    3.3   15.7   158   215    266 62.0
Suriname         2,450  9.0  ..  10.0   10.4   22.8   908   383  2,305 66.6
Trinidad a Tob. 3.350  4.2  39   5.1    5.8   12.3 1,050 1,403  5.521 71.0
Uruguay          2,510  6.0  ..   6.1    3.1   15.0   318   390    669 72.0
Venezuela        3,250  3.0  56  15.3    5.4   21.3   232   137  2,074 70.1
LAC Average      1,860  4.4  54  16.7    4.0   16.6   219 266.4 1202.2 67.0
Reference Groups
Low income         320  ...  65  43.3    4.0    8.5   ..,          ... ... 60.0
Middle income   1,940  4.4  36  26.2    4.4   11.2   ...   ...66.0
High income    17.080  4.7  ..   ...    5.4    3.9   ...   ...    ... 76.0
Sources The LAC Connection, World Bank, LATER, i990.
* Most recent estimates around 1986
** Refers to 1975
... Not available



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
BASIC SOCIOECONOHIC INDICATORS
IV. Health
L: Number of Habitants per Doctor 1984-07
M: Number of Habitants per Nurse 1984-87
Ns Government Expenditure on Health as a percentage of total expend. 1987
V.  Nutrition
0: Intants with Low Birth-Weight (percent)
Pt Daily Calorie Supply per capita
Q: Protein Supply per capita (grams per day)
R: Index of Food Production per capita (1979-81 - 100)
VI. Population
S: Population (thousands) 1989
Ts Population Growth-percent/per year 1980-86
U: Population Growth-percent/per year 1986-2000 (estimate)
V: Birthrate per Thousand Population 1988
W: Deathrate per Thousand Population 1988
L      H      N    0    P      Q    R       S        T    U   V   W
Argentina    374    981  2.1    6 3,210  107  96.9    32,429  1.4  1.1  21  9
Bahamas    1,060    206 13.5        2,652   77 101.5        262  2.0  1.8  25  5
Barbados   1,123    223 11.6    63,199  100  73.0           262  0.3  0.2  17  8
Belize     2,221    496  9.0        2,599   70  91.3        183  1.9  1.7  37  7
Bolivia    1.538  2.477  1.9   12 2,143   56  94.8        7,113  2.7  2.7  42 14
Brazil     1,080  1.205  9.3    82.656   61 111.8   147,399  2.2  1.8  28  8
Chile      1,231    371  6.3    72,579   67 105.0    12,960  1.7  1.3  23  6
Colombia   1.186    627  4.5   15 2,542   56 101.7    31,192  2.1  1.6  26  6
Costa Rica   958    450 19.3   10 2,803   68  86.0        2,941  2.3  2.0  27  4
Dom. Rep.  1,763  1,209 10.6   16 2,477   53 91.5         7,018  2.4  1.8  31  7
Ecuador    2,900  2.684  7.3   20 2,058   49  95.i    10,490  2.6  2.2  32  7
El Salv.   2,82i    934  7.4   15 2,160   53  90.3        5,135  1.3  2.1  36  8
Guatemala  2,184    851  7.6   10 2.307   60  90.0        8,935  2.9  2.8. 40  8
Guyana     6,220    885  5.7   11 2,484   60  77.6        1,023  0.8  0.6  27  7
Haiti      7,179  2,292 11.1   17 1,902   45  95.2        6,382  1.8  1.9  35 13
Honduras   1,511    672 14.7   20 2,068   53  75.1        4.982  3.6  2.9  39  8
Jamaica    2,065    492  7.8    82,590   58 100.1         2,483  1.5  0.5  23  6
Mexico     1,242    880  1.3   15 3,132   81  92.5    86,737  2.2  1.9  28  6
Nicaragua  1,498    534  ...   15 2,495   63  70.5        3,745  3.4  3.0  41  7
Panama     1,000    390 16.7    8 2,446   59  92.1        2,370  2.2  1.6  26  5
Paraguay   1,459    999  5.8    6 2,853   79 107.5        4,157  3.2  2.7  35  6
Peru       1,042    ...  5.8    9 2,246   61  95.5    21,790  2.2  2.1  31  9
Suriname   1,264    276  3.7    . 2,725   67 101.9          397  0.2  0.4  32  7
Trin. & Tob  962    258 15.9    . 3,082   82  71.6        1,263  1.7  1.4  26  6
Uruguay      502    ...  4.8    8 2,648   78 104.2        3,104  0.6  0.6  17 10
Venezuela    701    ... 10.0    9 2,494   66  93.2    19,245  2.8  2.2  30  5
LAC Average  933    657  6.7   11 2,700   69 100.7  *413.600  2.2  1.8  28  7
Ref Groups
L.-income  1,462  1,547  4.2   18 2,384   57 116.4 *2,884.000 2.0  1.9  31 10
M.-income  1,334    ...  6.7   10 2,846   75 100.7 *1,068,000 2.2  1.9  29  8
1.-income    530    168 12.7    7 3,376  101 102.1   *784,200 0.7  0.6  14  9
Sources The LAC Connection, World Bank, LATHR, 1990.
* Refers to the total population
... Not available



Table I
ECUADOR
Public Expenditure In Social Sectors by Ministry and Haln lstitutions
1980-1990
Hillions of Constant 1988 Sucres
Sub-Total                               Sub-Total
Year   Education gj Velfare   Labor  lhealth  Hinistries  SECAP          lEOS  IESS .ki  Inatitut,    Total
1980       186,116    2,956    1.092   27,974   218,538   1.071    6,731   18.758    26,563   215,101
1981       139,137    1,337    1,67?   35,754   180,922   2,106    8,008 . 22,039    32,153  .213,0?5
1982       129,233    4,176    1.274   36,593   171,276   1,524   ,8580   23,513    33.617   204,893
1983       112,345    5.096    1,106   32,971   151.518   1,75S    7,390   21,736    30,861   iB2,378
1984       108.299    2,965    . 807   31.303   143,373   1.012    6,865   18,610    26.487   169,861
1985       110,434    3.614        791   32,251   1417089   1,229    3,808   21,211    26,248   113,337
1986       111,690    4,503        981   31,424   148,600   1,163    7,645   17,539    26,347   17i,947
1987       1'a,lS1    4,552        876   32,298   145,171   2,063   10,941   18,684    31,688   176,865
1958       101,014    3,951    1,024   32,552   138,570   2,344   10,246   17.941    30,531   169,101
1939 cj     86,779   11,117    1i,022.- 36.882   135,829   1.159   10,904   14,187    26,250   162,080
1990 Aj     75,452   13,870    1,27?   40.404   131,000   1,260   18,.474   18,780    38,514   169,514
Sources MinLitry of Pinance, !Presupuesto del lEtado; 1980-1990t Casto Efectiwo'
Miniaterial and lstitutional Budgets
Notoli
g Includes all higher education pxpenditures.
1* Includes health related expendlturesonly.
1 Prowllonal figures..
J4 Coded Budget as of April 30, 1990.                                                                            0 
,31 *- 



Table 2
ECUADOR,
Share of Soclal Expenditureiln CDP and In Total Public Budget (Vh)
total Soclal
Educatlon           Health       Other Social Sec.       Sub- Total'          lnstitutes           Sectors
GDP        P8      CDP    , Ps         GDP         Ps      GDP         PB      CDP        Ps'       CDP        Ps
. ~ ~  - -       ...       ...       -  -- --- -. ..                                                       ......
1970       2.8      19.8       0.5      3.4      n.o.      n.a.        3.3     23.2      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.o.
1980       7.2      SO.6       1.1       7.5       0.2      1.1       8.4  '  56.6         1.0      7.1       9.4      6S.t
1951       5.1      31.8       1;3      8.2        0.1       1.4      6.7      41.3        1.2      7.3        7.8     48.7
1982       4.6      3W.2       1.3       8.5       0.2       1.3      6.1      40.0        1.2      7.9       7.4      47.9
1953       4.2      29.0       1.2      8.5       0.2       1.6       5.6      39.1       1.1       8.0       6.8      41.0
1984      .3.9      28.7      1.1       8.3       0.1       1.0       5.1      38,0       0.9       7.0       6.1      45.0
1995       3.8     24.0       I 1.1     t.3       0.2       1.0       5.0      33.1       0.9       5.9       5.9      39.0
1986       3.1     25.5       1.0       7:2       0.2       1.3       S.0      34.0       0.9       6.0       3.8    .40.0
1987       3.6     26.3       1.2       t.9       0.2       1.3       5.2      35.6       1.1       7.8       6.3      43.3  0
1988       3.2     24.2       1.0       7.8       0.2       1.2       4.3      33.2       1.0       7.3       5.3      40.6
1989       2.7     22.1       1.1       9.4       0.4       3.1       4.2      34.6       0.8       6.7       5.0      41.3
1990       2.3     15.1       1.2       8.1       0.5       3.0       3.9  *  26.3        1.2       7.7       5.1      34.0
Source Soclal Sector Study ebtimate (isee Table 1.1 and Annex 17).
F
.                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table  3                           Page  3 of 15
ACTL W. SIAL SEC=  W1 C?1I  By FnISTRY
Crhou"od C.,.ten4 l9e Lo)
1980                ~~~~~~~~1061                 1082
ftSI   DfTNeET   T=AL    RNTU  DhBT;W   TUrAL               r       D rSQ;  T =TAL
Pie-opl * Prlmi                 11o.s84       0    119,8    1, 111.757    88  111792   9666           87   08,705
"Mdde sehoi                      0.        2,811  8n  92.48   85.252      13  "8,2"       0.457       81   80.488
Higher 8d4etieu                   a.*.     a.&.       n.e.     a.m.     S.*.      a.m.     r.C.     5.5.     n.C.
0ther.                          25670   79.96    21S.8 W04. ,1 7211  JM.112   81.8S   85.808  117.21
1ub-9.1.1                      8147.55   60.278    427.790  201.0   378.380  3110.170  261.02   8W.376  206.404
Eoplopmnt p.om.9S. &
Human P4mwrm.. d.w.lepmnt          875       14        an       "9       130      8an       406      112     2u
Other                            1.s7e      2S7      2.115    1.95    11.299    8.250    1.6a        a"    2.404
Sub-total                        2.2S4      2S1      2.505    2.400    1.438    8.caS    1.96        959    2.924
Nutri*tin & pre,..sion vrrn  _    SW         26        a85    1.007      114    1.120    2.02          9    2,041
Other                            s8.254   10.2      68,896   67.140   13,748   e0.sas   61.762   18.132   81.094
Sub-tc"                         5 88.774   10.816   *U.1 m    ".48   13.419   02.006   U6.766   18.172    8.935
popular prDDie proorma* 81                    1        8s       58G       68      624       877    2.638    8,015
Child pr48eeti-n                 8.016       94      8.110   8,16         90    8,406    2.98        750    8.709
other                            2.a22      00       8.217    2.7S1    3.168    5.918    1.        1.005    2,6SZ
Sub-to"l5.719 ,e                           aoo       6.77e    S.624    3.323    9.947    5.16      4,424    9.5i1
TUrAL                           404.261   91.974    801.215  859.011   58.980  414.961  888.914   88.OS0  892,445
1966                        1964                        1985
FL          Dr*MT     TOrAL    uDW  EVUw   TwAL  rc                D.F.8 w  TOrAL
Pre-mal * Prm_                 V*7.S8         0     87.86   86.776         *   84.786   87.714         2   47.717
Moiddle Rh.el                    74,470      8       74,88    74.0o2       82   74.184   7C.400        7   ".487
Nigher Idu.atlv                   "a..      g.e.      e.G.     ".;.      R.*.     em.8.   40,400    7.712   48.176
Other                            7r.26    28.1*       8.57 O67982   0o.8S    69.46   21.773   16.1S6   8790
Sub~S be                        S 219.801   18.871    287.7.    S.771   20.607  2a8.866  Z9.2s7   24.002  2SS289
LA_
bop.mt  prmo tea a
_bm     moem developmt             NW7       S9        426 tS             114      44JJ     85        59 W74
Other                             I.3        we0      2.122    1,8J6      48    1.=       1.888      100    1,444
Sub-,k"I                          1*68      876       2.8b6    1.669      182    1.88     1.6o0      167    1,s
btriStioa A PFrp.v.9   peagesa    18207     8S8       1.841    1.34        1e    1,J80    1.024       20    1.044
Other                            ",.98    17.5J2    74,06    5.68,   16.310   70,448   5S.172   10.784   72.924
Sub-9e.                          86*2,S   17.4114    78.68    84.972   S .n    71s.796   848.      19,774   78.970
Pei.. p*_1_lem  remr                881.,             1,176    a81       88        647      S"       476     T7
Chi1ld pop.e8Iu,                 81.096     "0        4.000    2,S44      6t    8.479    2.954       881    &8.S
Other                             14'd     *,0Se     *,81    10u1    1.ma    2.678    * .s.          596    4.197
Sob 6to  I                        4.917    6,7m      U.68      4.196    2.606    6.7 9    4.1130%   1.482    6.20
IWIAL                           804,00    48.48     847.8U7   mein    40,19 C            51291.7 6.070   4.896   U?7.866 '"
-                       -                            -        -        -        -_



601A -                                    ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 15
Table 3
(cont'd)
1cFML, SOCM SWr08 Cin T usrmwB
CThouaamd C,aetmt 198 UN)
awe                          16w                         lwef
_moT r DN;mv             A       ntraVM             T bL   nFMMM  V ;W   TAL.
Pee-eatoeS  *Prim'        ~m",                o       n,"s   as.mo          o   8j2s0   10.234          o      ,1
Nddi. SeS                        84,0          a      64,140     .701       17   7970   7.r             as    n,
Hbgor   W1ti                     41,454    7,962      80.410   40,210    4,65   488    11,0    #,a80    40',8s
Ct,...                   1~~~~~~~0.273   11.773  12.048   21.471   18.848   87,028   2.0.1*    6.978   29,104
8u&-t.9o736,4 1     36.&T70  4.        21.W   *8.445  M7.4E2   14,.S   211.734
LAG
__ g1_see         I                41        1S         s        845                u s  J     4        2       an
Other.                            1.42       109       1.01    1.442       21     1.        2.007       8d    2.041
Sub-tote                          2*2        233       2,26    1.787       2      2.009    2,81         a7    2,7
Stse1.ti.a  Pre."aie onweum       1.801       s0       I.=        Su    2J          978    5.518       1,   5.* 4
Other                            82.047    7,697      Va.744   8.3w  *4U7m    78.101   51.089   17.5            ."S710
Sub-totl                          4.104    7.97       72.075   89.38   14.107  74,07    5677   IS0M    74,851
P@eaula, pemble. grvwvu             S1B      219        SU       33         83      269      218       141      888
Chi 1      _ prUtGubw             8,159     448        S.88     8,398      s0    8.456       OM        1"4    8.192
(ther                             2.804    8.774       t.18 IJm          5,097 0   .71      1,46     4.021    5,5so
J b-tot_l                         5* 49    4,01       10.830    6.250    6,191   10.441    4,735    4.        9.041
TgrrAL                       8.48    8278s    8".80  290.82    42,061   MOW    251.075   8,747  517.8f1
19691/                      1990 a/
. ~ ~ ~ ~ nm              ..ie        ,011      _mr~wm              r
PFee   &1 P* w_                   ",9"         a      "8,44   80,187         0   80,157
i"dle Sd_Sl                      54," 0        "4     44,6U4 *0.8    1            80,87
higher Susith)_                   8.472    4.442      85.94    80,1    8.742   84,88
Oth..                             0,08"  *.478        29.88    27.770     .1 WO 87.447
Sub-tol                         18492   1,08         19 4  1.1          18,941  173.,06
W8eyoo0 b_i &
thn Sun,g dov..p..                  828        2              Jll1    * 4           8
0sh.                              i,ma   2w0           aw       1. J2      15    1.51
__-otl104                                    319      288    2.6#         29    1n23
LAMM
1  ~~~~~~~~~~."@                    ff4       2,4S3   2O11   42,"    2,.70
mthltietm A P..io   .g.m-                      -       -2/         -               -R
0th..                                -                 -/                            2  -/
Sub-total                       850.1S   W5.80 844,81    80.851   412.09    NATO7
Pu.isv p.mthk. p                    10        14f9              we         710 * 1
0uSld p..ttlogoi                  82.18       2an       .,I    Cam         837    4.14
0684..                           17,184    4.688      11.M9   22.9110    Sin    35.8011
Sub-total                        10.518    5,049      3S.88?   27.8      4,447   SI,a1
TOTAL                           2MO        47.974    sa.sm   On972        0,47  801.48
f Atomi e      it.e (ppwloii_l floww.1.).
1/ P go    bedgo 418.1fiestm1_ -  ndIf1Sd.
J/ Code bd." to dp i I s0.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 15
Table 4
ACL $=L l1M             D WSV"CUBL  oMTM
ACIWI. WWJ        W   09 m1ft so  UN)WLCD6IT
T029tN       D    _lMf;  nxrAL     TAROA    24Vr_          TAL        F_ T%        DNP;       nw^AL
SMALME                  iLn         4"           m          L24 ; S 7  4f 4       an           2 4    dUT             atX
bet. Ni.                                                                             1
ft1s-malo C"ll*"rsl                  19W         64         2211                                      U19337 n         i          492
Cas-.-. l                             ".  -     -                                            -    -                        -7,  I'm  20 o
0 Slzfln Woeic~wiet                  I&II                   I           10       2141        2,l11,#11
ODMACl                                                                                                  1.4&7        *,6        ,.26
LAO
3U                                   121         460                               46          II3        s24           2          S2
mat.O                                                                                2 4.1.                           O d3
SWA                               22"4          so        2,fUi1      82.2       2,4111      4,TMi      1,0         J,741       0.i,
W-LT
NI.2.1wi                               2         24       211                                             1?i  2       J 2 , f4T 248  492,
tCs.. NIl. Lolde  Car.            218            at6      2 *1          77                   1. 215    7S   4        ,          2.04"
Ms                                1.1.        1.042       2.51       210.3        13.0"      2.         2.*7 2.r2 4           2,8030
11m                                 a"9       7.440        o0           a44     10.3   W      .,4         4"        6.732       9.197
TOTAL                             10.360     24.15       83703       11.419     89.742    8s1.1n       11.4        40.736      82.218
NGMAt#   DNEVW          7TrAL
Uet. Nei5. de
P.6,1mbi culturl                     165        872         a37
co". Cult. ft. owli. Carrion         721       1.109      1.327
0..uasta 81ffoml .a i4....           174         24         1I"
Optc
UI                                    6          61         186
am                        R,M~~~~133      4      2.390
at*. Nei. LaspeIde ZaquSe         1.160          as       1.33
2.   0 2.347     2.
n*t$-                              -l             - tss a2 a
1> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~40
DUA                               Si         43 0         U,



Table 5
ACIAL 'Wff m1' r    lsnrA  IT V9wIN  iwO -at"
rCWA 1* UN
io        IuI        1SW       Itl         1U64      1"s        1"6        196        196       1969       1t9
Pra-ad ml &rtinr                7n.01      69.14     593        51.13      4a.24      4.         4.1       44.4       42.20      4s.s       38.4n
MIMl. sal                      172.10     151.66     134.04      O.1      113.96     112.62     116.48     107.09    104.U      1l1.02      95.28
"I#" UatetIa                     s.4.      a..        &.d.       m.d.       s.d.     139.17     131.39     109.10    292.42     382.6?     360.9
OU .r                           U3.39      60.61     46.61      36.62     465.26     17.84      129.69    122.05      67.20     112.11     12.08
341.50    271.01     242.22     2.0        67.4      478.83     426.43     36.63      6211.9     631.00    622.81
U-
o1_* w*le 
wine Rarnwr   dawlapeat          0.14      0.2n       0.16       0.14       0.15      0.12       O.1        0.10       0.06       0.11      0.10
Ofl.,                            0.79       1.17      0.64       o.7        0.46       0.46      0.61       0.60       0.59       0.49      0."
Saw-otal                         0.113      1.36      1.6        0.66       0.61      0.58       0.70       0.60       0.63       0.60      0.76
SWP                             11.64     2.09      1U.05        7.9        9.61     U1.62       9.68      18.6       17.79       6.U6       .d.
laZtwI  & PrawaeatI. trogm      0.or       0.13       0.24       0.17       0.16      0.11       0.14       0.10       0.U6       0.41      0.40
.                                r7.6      9.67       9.52       6.t7      7.73       7.76       7.3        7.37       6.76      7.18       6.76
sub-total                        T.90      9.1        9.78       6.64       7.ea      7..        7.47       7.47       7.32      7."        7.16
Ms                               "1.90    2.26       2.29       I.9        1.73      0."        1.62       2.63       2.30      2.02       s.d.
Mdla.OW.                        83.94     64.74      86.21      46.68      3."       36.62      29.01     2".8        27.24      20.47     26.61
"d.2AS|bIt                      3.n1       3.6        a.26      2.37       1.78       1.86       1.16       1.46      1.14       0.77      O.S
a-total NsId.=                  87.73     62.9       61.49      49.02      66.32     40.17      31.09      31.23      20.36     2.24       27.2
0.00      0.00
Papler pi maam program           0.66      0.07       0.38       0.13       0.07      0.06       0.06       0.03       0.04      0.0o        0.11
Chld probalw                  1M6.73     257.9      m.96       26.44      244.93    229.26     248.48     226.6      204.23     237.43    242.79
owher                           0.40       0.71       0.33       0174      O.2        0.45       0.64       0.U8       0.64       1.32      2.U
sub-tot1l                      29.19     25.7       274.6      269u.11    248.t9   219.73      246.14     227.1      204.00     2.64      28.
World Bank Report No. 8935-S
0
Fh



-63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 15
Table 6
ECUADOR
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC UEALTH
Expenditure by Program
(z)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989 III
-----------------------------------------------------------------m ---------------------
iCentral Activity, Direction            I    1.9      2.3      1.7      1.6      1.1
land General Administration
Ifealth AdminLstration Zone SI t                               0.6      0.9      0.3   I
Iealth Technical Normative Services     j    1.4      1.9      1.3      7.7      5.5
lEnvLronmental health and sunLtary works I    8.6      -       9.1    16.8    35.5   !
17rovlncial health service adminiatrationl    66.9    70.2    67.7    66.7    47.1   I
ICommunitary budgeted credlts           I    4.2      4.0    19.6       6.3    10.5   I
II
llnvestment in bealth centers           I   17.0    14.4        -        -        _
III
IChild health care and basic                   -      7.2       _
Imedications                            I                                              I
III
ITotal Sector                           I  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   |
I                                       I                                              I 
Sourcet Social Sector Study estimates, based on MinLstry of Finance data.
1/ Coded Budget



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 15
Sources and Notes: Table 1, 4, 5
1).  Gastos de los Ministerios: Fuente: Ministerio de Finanzas,
Presupuesto del Estado; 1980-1988: Gasto Efectivo; 1989:
Presupuesto Codificado a 30 de agosto; 1990: Presupuesto
Aprobado (inicial)
2).  Educaci6n Superior : 1985-L990 : Ministerio de Finanzas,
Presupuesto del Estado (Veise Cuadro 1).  Para 1980-1985
no  es  posible  separa  easte  rengl6n de  "otrosw  en el
presupuesto del MEC.  Se incluyen s6lo las transterenclas
que figuran en el Presupuesto Nacional, pucs algunas,
cuya  cuantSa  no  fue  posible  determinar slno  para el
a fAO 1987, parecen ir directamente al Fondo de Universlda-
des;  en  efecto,  xegCn  la 'Subsecretaria  del  Tesoro
y  el  Banco  Central  del  Ecuador,  Direcci6n  Central
de Estadisticas Preaupuestarias. el total de transferen-
ceas efectivas para Universidades y Escuelas PoLit&cnicas
en 1987 ru6 de s/14'S46.278.000 a comparar con Los
s/13.829'054.000 deL present. cuadro.
3).  SECAP : Direcci6n de Planeaci6n; 1980-1989 : Las "trans-
ferencias de presupuesto" son su valor efectlvo total;
baJo "con ingresos propios" so incLuyen gastos con
cargo al impuesto del 0.5% sobre n6mina, &aperivit
y  "otros";  eL  rubro  so calcul6  por diferencia entre
gasto total y transfeDencias de presupuesto; en 1981
se incluye la contrzpartida del pr6stamo BID; en 1986,88
y 89 se incluyen pr6stamos BEDE.
4).... Ministerio   do   Salud,   Discriminaci6n  ior  programas
1985-1989----Datos de La Direcci6n de Presupuesto del
Minsterio.
S).  IEOS  : Direcci6n do Presupuesto.    En  "transferencias
presupuestales" so incluyen las partidas subvenci6n
fiscal para funcionamiento (No.30-120-L00) y subvenci6n
fiscal pars invorsiones (No.30-200-100); no se incluyon
dep6sitos de otras entidades p4blicas, aportes con
destinacifn especial ni fondos con inter6s regional.
1980-1988  : Transferencia ofectLva;  1989  :      ignacin
original.    El  rubro de gastos  fLna!ciados "con otros



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 15
ingresos"  so  calcul6  por  diferoncia  entre  el  gasto
total y las transforencias presupuestalos.
6).  IESS : Departamento de Control y Evaluaci6n Presupuesta-
ria.     1980-1985  :  Balances  Generales;  1986-1989  :
Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria; 1990 : Proforma Presupuestaria.
Cobertura.  No  so  incluye  : a). El gasto  de los hogares;
b)  El  gasto  publico  financLado  con  ingresos  propios  de
las provincias y municipios,  ni  c)  E1  gasto en educacl6n;
capacitact6n de recursos humanos, salud y "bienestar" quo
efectudan.  otros  ministerios,  en  especial  el  de  Def':nsa.
Las. dos  Ciltimas  categorLas  de  liasto  parecen  sin   nbargo
de  muy  poca  importancia dentro  .el gasto  publico  social
total (menos del 5%).
Por  lo  demas, debido a quo las fuentes son independientes
y sus sistemas de c.asificaci6n no domparables estrictamente,
puede h~aber algunas sumas incluidas tanto balo 'EEOS-transfe-
rencias  presupuestales"  como  bajo  "MSP-otros";  esta  doble
contabilizaci6n podria estar, como miximo, y segEn el afIo,
*  rtre un 3 y un 8% de las transferencias al IEOS.
7)  Educaci6n  Preescolar,  Prnmaria  y  Media  : Namero  de
Alumnos segCmn MEC, Estadsticas de la EducacL6n.
8)  Educaci6n Superior : Segin UNESCO. el n(MCero de matricu-
lados en 1983 era de 280.599 y La matricula aument6
entre 1978 y 1983 al 11* anual.   (Desarrollo EducativO.
Problemas v Prior1.dades, L986). A falta de otra informa-
ci6n,  so .extrapoL6  la  serie  completa.    Debe  ademAs
sedalarse que so habla de uzna Sobreestimaci6n cercana
a  1/3  on  el  numero  de  estudiantes  universitarios.
lo  cual  por  supuesto  olevaria  proporcionalmente  el
costo unitario del Cuadro 8.
9)   Para los "otros" programas educativos so toma .L tdcal
de estudiantes.
10)   Trabajo : Poblaci6n Econ6micamente Activa Total 1983-1987
sogEn SCE, 8oletLn anuarlo No.. 10, L987; 1980-82 y
1983-90 : proyectada por regresi6n.
11). SECAP : Oirecei6n do PladieacLfn. nCmero total de horas
do formacifn impartida.



_66-
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 15
12)  SaLud  : Poblactn Toeal, segtn eompilacLon del :rors
EseadLstucas  del  Ecuader, 1988 y  Proyecc2ones CONADE
para 1989-90.
13)   r0OS: Id.
14)  ZESS : Poblacl6n Asgura. 90, 1985,LMy 1987 : Carmelo
Mesa Lag,o FLna.ncial and Economic Evaluation of Social
rnsurance (I.E.S.S.) In Ecuador, Novtembre 20, L909;
1982 : Peter Thulon, Kota T6cnica, MiM&G, 2987;  .990:
W. Vacca,  ZZSS,   adile  Debe Callar,  L988  (ProyeocL6n).
Par, Los doms atlas: Interpol-cLOn de Los autores.
15)  Uienestar  Social  :  "PremocOn  Popular"  y  "Otros",
Poblact6n Total ProtecclOn de M*nores : a parttr del
dato sumtnLst -to par la DireccLtn do ProticciOn y
Rohabilitaci6n  del  MinLsterLo  para  1999,. so  supuso
que  la cobortur. de  Los progfuams era un poresntaje
constante de la poblac:Ln entre 0 y 20 atto, osta
ilLtLma seg"mn WZS, co, cit.



_ 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 15
Table 7
ECUADOR
Household Share of Subsidy on Health, by Income Level (S)
1985.
Annual Subsidy (Sucres)    IWeight of
Annual Income       ------------------------------------ igroup i  I
(Sucres)          0      1-4000  4001-2200  >2000       total  I
______________,___  --------------------------------- I---   --- -
Low 
' 450,000           67.4     22.3       5.6      0.6       50.9
ea                nnnn___________ -------------------------------_-----I---I
Kid-Low
451,000-900,000         64.4      18.0     17.4       1.1 I    23.2
------------------I    -------------------------------I_ _ -- -- --
M4d-Bigh      |
900,001-1,350,000 I    67.4      17.9      14.0       0.5 I    12.1
----------------   ------------------------------------   -------__
High i g
' 1,350,000    I    72.1      17.7       9.8       0.9 I    13.8
Total              I   66.8      20.4      12.1       0.7 I   100.0 I
ane-------------- I    eeeeee---- --------- --------- --------- _--------I
Sources Social Sector Study estimates based onu G nzalo
Bustos, El Gasto Publico Social Ecuatoriano y ous
Efectos Redistributivos. Quito, PUCE - CONUEP 1988.
4.    About 68  of the families surveyed had no health services coverage,
and 75? of family units earning lese than a miLniwm living wage per month
found themselves in this situation.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 15
Table 8
ECUADoi
Household Share of Subsidy on Water & Sewerage, by Income Level (C)
1985.
*  | I-------- Annual Subsidy (Sucres)          Iueight of|
Annual Income       ------------------------------------------Igroup in
(Sucres)     I   0       1-7,500   7,501-15,000  315,001    total  I
Low        I II
< 450,000          45.5        35.6        18.8        0.1   50.9 I
Mid-Low
451,000-900,000        26.5        31.8        33.7         4.S 1   23.2
4id-High                            I
900,001-1,350,000      22.2        31.6        46.0         0.0      12.1
gh         I iIg
= 1,350,000    j   21.5         35.0        42.1        0.0 I   13.8 I
Total              I   35.4        34.5        28.9         1.1 I  100.0
Sources Social Sector Study estimates based on: Gonzalo
Bustos, El Gasto Publico Social Ecuatoriano y sue
Efectos Redistributivos. QuLto, PUCE - CONUEP 1988.
8.    About 252 of all families do not receive subsidy for water. On average,
about one-third of households in the three lowest income groups do not have
access to this service. On the other hand, 50S of the poorest families receive
the sam subsidy --between Si. 5,000 and Si. 10,000 annualy--a proportion which
is also true among families in the highest income groups (Table 7).



-69-
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 15
Table 9
ZCUADOR
Household Share of Subsidy on Education, by Income Level (Z)
1985.
I        Annual Subsidy (Sucres)             IWeight ofl
Annual Income      ----------------o--coc--------------------Igroup in I
(Sucres)     I    0      1-16,000  16,001-32.000  >32,0001  total  I
Low                                                     I
< 450,000           3.6        69.3        20.8        4.3 1   50.9
Mid-Low                                                    I
451,000-900,000   I    1.9         66.9        25.2        4.0 I   23.2
Mid-High
900,001-1,350,000       3.1        72.0        20.3        8.1       12.1
High       I
> 1,350,000    1    4.5         75.7        17.9        2.7      13.8
Total             I    3.3         70.7        21.6        4.5 I  100.0 I
-     ~~------------------ I-----------------------------------------I-----------
Sources Social Sector Study estimates based ons Gonzalo
Bustos, El Gasto Publico Social Ecuatoriano y sue
Efectos Redistributlvos. Quito, PUCE-CONUEP 1988.
5.    There is better coverage In education and more equLtable distribution of
subsidies. About 96.6S of the households surveyed benefit from it. In the case
of 67Z of the families the subsidy amounts to between S/.40,000 and Si. 160,000
per annum. But 70S of famLlies in the vealthiest.segment of the population are
in this high subsidy group (Table 4).



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
PaRe 14 of 15
Table 10
ECUADOR
Household Share of Subsidy on Social Security, by Income Level (Z)
1985.
e____  - -- -- --_- -- --I___ ----------------------- -----------_ I------ I
Annual Subsidy (Sucres)           IWeight ofl
Annual Income      -- ----------------------------------group in I
(Sucre*)         0  1-60,000  60,000-120,000  >'120,000 I total  I
Low                                                             I
-( 450,000         92.9    5.0         0.2        0.0    I   50.9
Hid-Low      I                                          I         I
451,000-900,000        94.1    4.8         1.0        0.0         23.2 !
Kid-High     I                                           I
900,001-1,350,000 I   88.8    8.7          1.0        O.5    1   12.1
High       II
> 1,350,000    !   92.9    6.7          0.9        0.4         13.8 I
Total                  93.6    5.7         0.         0.1    !  100.0 I
Sourcee Social Sector Study estimates based ont Gonzalo
Bustos, El Gasto Publico Social Ecuatoriano y sun
Efectos Redistributivos. Quito, PUCE-CONUEP 1988.
6.    The lowest participation level of households is with respect to social
security, as about 94.2Z do not receive this state subsidy. In the three lowest
groups non-coverage is almost universal (Table 5).



-71 -
ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 15
Table 11
ECUADOR
Household Share of Housing, by Income Level (2)
1985.
Annual Subsidy (Sucres)            IVeLght ofl
Annual Income            ---------------------------------------igroup in
(Sucres)     I   0        1-160        161-320       >320    total
Low
c 450,000     I   69.0         23.5         3.0        2.5 j   50.9
Mld-Low
451,000-900,000        61.5        26.3         4.3        8.0       23.2
Hid-High
900,001-1,350,000 I   62.8         18.9         9.1        8.1       12.1
High                                                     II
> 1,350,000    I   58.7         15.6         9.8       16.6 I   13.8
3------------------ ------------------------------------------- ---------
Total             j   65.8         22.8         5.0        6.4 I  100.0 I
Sources Social Sector Study estimates based on: Gonsalo
Bustos, El Gasto Publico Social Ecuatoriano y sus
Efector Redistributivos. QuLto, PUCE-CONUEP 198J.
7.    About 66  do not receive any subsidy under housing program..  About 762
of the poorest segment and 70.22 of the second poorest segment do not beneflt
from the programs. However, unsubsidized families account for only 582 of the
total population at the highest income levels.



ANNEX 3
- 73 _                         Page 1 of 11
Annex:3, Table 1: ECUADOR -
PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF DEATH, 1989
CAUSE                        NUMBER                  RATE            PERCENT OF
*             PER 100,000         ALL DEATHS
Ill-defined Intestinal
Infections                           2805                    26.7                5.4
Pneumonia                                2525                   24.1                4.9
Motor Vehicle
Accidents                           1909                    18.2                3.7
Acute Myocardial
Infarction                          1586                    15.1                3.1
Bronchitis, Emphysema,
and Asthma                          1548                    14.5                3.0
Fetal and Neonatal
Hypoxia                             1339                    12.8                2.6
Malignant Neoplasm
of Stomach                          1287                    12.3                2.5
Tuberculosis of
* Respiratory System                   1155                   11.0                2.2
Homicide and Injury                      1122                    10.7                2.2
Diabetes Mellitis                         953                     9.7                1.8
Others                                                                             54.3
TOTAL                                  51,736                  493.2               100.0
Source: Ecuadorean Ministry of Health



Annex 3, Table 2: ECUADOR -
BASIC INDICATORS BY PROVINCE, 1989
PROVINCE                BIRTH    MATERNAL         PERINATAL        CRUDE            INFANT          NEONATAL        POST-           CHILD
RATE  MORTAUTY   MORTAUTY  DEATH                            MORTALITY  MORTAUTY  NEONATAL  MORTAUTY
.  *     RATE             RATE             RATE            RATE             RATE            MORTAUTY    RATE
.*              *-               *                *.               **              RATE            4*
* 0
TOTAL                   19.1     1.7              31.3             4.9              44.2             19.1            25.1           2.8
AZUAT                   19.9     2.7              25.8             6.2              44.4            20.7             23.8           3.5
BOLIVAR                 26.2     1.8              19.9             7.1              47.5             18.3            29.2           5.6
CANAR                   21.8     1.8              18.8             6.2              40.0            13.8            26.3            3.5
CARCHI                  20.6     1.3              31.4             5.9              51.9            20.6             31.4           4.0
COTOPAXI                25.2     1.9              35.2             8.0              66.6            17.8            48.8            6.5
CHIMBORAZO             27.4      2.5              27.0             8.9              56.4            19.9            36.5            6.7
EL ORO                  16.9     1.4              18.5             3.7              26.5            9.9              16.7           2.3                                     I
ESNERALOAS             23.0      2.7              30.1             5.3             52.8             19.1            33.7            3.6
GUAYAS                  14.2     1.2              48.8             4.2             51.0             27.4            23.6            1.6
INBABURA               24.0      2.5              28.9             7.6             52.1             20.8            31.3            5.5
LOJA                   21.5      2.7              17.2             4.8             27.6             9.9             17.7            2.8
LOS RIOS                17.1     2.1              58.8             5.2             61.2             24.8            36.4            2.q
NANABI                 22.9      1.3              13.1             3.9             23.6             8.4             15.2            1.6
|ORONA SANTIAWO         20.8     2.5              23.7             3.6              34.2            14.6            19.6            3.2
NAPO                   31.9      1.6              12.2             4.2             34.0             9.6             24.4            2.1
PASTAZA                20.6      1.1              28.3             3.2             34.0             10.2            23.8            2.1
PICHINCHA               18.4     1.2              30.2             4.2             41.6             21.1            20.5            2.4
TLUGURAGUA             22.2      2.0              41.0             7.0             56.1             24.3            31.7            4.5                                   OQ Z
rb til
ZAKORA CHINCHIPE        21.4     2.7              15.0             3.5              28.7            10.9            17.8            3.7             |
GALAPAGOS               18.3     0.0              29.6             1.4              17.8            17.8            0.0             0.9                                   0
SUO.JEDIOS              17.0     0.7              23.9             2.9             42.3             12.7            29.6            3.9
RAPIl TE  1.mr,-s UVEAF                              r TEF  1.000 CHL U N o    1 -4 YtAfl_
Sounw. INEC. Y"dy VlAtl Sta*tt.



ANNEX 3
- 75 -                        Page 3 of 11
Annex 3, Table 3: ECUADOR -
INFANT AND MATERNAL MORTALIT'Y
RATES, 1962 - 1989
YEAR                            INFANT                    MATERNAL
Per 1,000 Llve Births
1962                             95.8                        2.4
1963                             94.6                        2.6
1964                             94.0                        2.3
1965                             02.8                        2.5
1966                             90.4                        2.4
1967                             87.3                        2.5
l68                             86.1                         2.3
1969                             91.0                         2.3
1970                             83.0                        2.2
1971                             72.4                        2.0
1972                             81.9                         2.0
1973                             75.8                         1.9
1974                             70.1                         2.0
1975                             65.8                        2.3
1976                             98.4                        2,0
1977                             70.8                         1.9
1978                             64.4                         2.1
1979                             68.1                         1.8
1980                             63.8                         1.9
1981                             60.0                         1.9
1982                             60.4      .                  1.8
1983                             61.5                         2.0
1984                             54.1                         1.2
1985                             50.5                         1.8
1989                             44.2                         1.7
Sources INEC.and Ecuadoreaa Kinistry of Health Yearly Vital Statistics



ANNEX 3
- 76 -                            Page 4 of 11
Annex 3, Table 4: ECUADOR -
LEADING CAUSES OF INFANT
MORTALITY, 1989
RANKING                        CAUSE OF DEATH                    PERCENTAGE OF ALL DEATHS
1                 Ill-defined Intestinal Infections                              16.2
2                 Hypoxia, Asphyxias, and Other
Respiratory Dysfunctions                                    15.1
3                 Pneumonia Conditions                                            7.0
4                 Slow Fetal Growth, Malnutrition,
and Prematurity                                              6.1
5                 Chronic Bronchitis                                              6.1
6                 Other Malnutrition-Related Conditions                           3.6
7                 Acute Bronchitis                                                3.2
8                 Congenital Anomalies                                            2.2
9                 Tetanus                                                         1.9
10                Accidents                                                       1.1
Other Ill-defined                                                    36.9
Sources Ecuadorean MinJstry of Health



ANNEX 3
- 77 -                          Page 5 of 11
Annex 3, Table 5: ECUADOR -
PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF MATERNAL
MORTALITY, 1989
RMTE PER          PERCENT oF
100,000          ALL MATERNAL
CAUSE                           NUMBER    LIVE BIRTHS              DEATHS
Hemorrhage of Pregnancy                                          50.0                  26.8
and Delivery                                 91
Toxemia                                           82             40.0                 24.1
Complications of
the Puerperium                               28              10.0                  8.2
Abortion                                           25             10.0                  7.4
Othere                                           114             60.0                  33.5
TOTAL                                            340             170.0                100.0
Source: Ecuadoran Ministry of Health



ANNEX 3
- 78                           Page 6 of 11
Ann-ex 3, Table 6: ECUADOR -
LEADING CAUSES OF CHILD
MORTALITY, 1989
RANRING                  CAUSE                  MALE   FEMALE  TOTAL            %      RATE2
1            Ill-defined Intestinal
Infections                       469        435     904       24.5   69.5
2           Pneumonia                            186        167     353        9.6   27.2
3          Chronic Bronchitis                    143        158     301        8.1   23.2
4          Other Malnutrition-
Related Conditions                 131       104      235        6.4    18.1
J          Measles                                48         65     113        3.1     8.7
6          Acute Bronchitis                       52         49     101        2.7     7.8
7          Traffic Accidents                      56         41      97        2.6     7.5
8          Drowning and Other
Water-Related Accidents            54         39      93        2.5     7.2
9           Intestinal Diseases
Caused by Specific
Organisms                          30          41      71        1.9     5.5
10         Fire Accidents                        37          31      68        1.8     5.2
Ill-defined                         220         213     433       11.7   33.3
TOTAL CHILD DEATHS                1984         1801   3695       100.0  284.3
fources INEC. Yearly Vital Statistics
2 Age one to four
Rates per 100,000 children aged 1 -4



Annex 3, Table 7: El ADOR -
MINISTRY OF HEALTH'S HEALTH FACILITIES
BY PROVINCE AND TYPE OF FACILITY, 1990
PROVINCE         TOTAL    HOSPITALS                                                   HEALTH      HEALTH            HEALTH    DISPENSARIES    NUMBER
CENTERS   SUSCENTERS    POST             AND OTHEPS         OF BEDS
NATIONAL    SPECIALTY    !ROVINCE   CANTON3
REFERRAL'
TOTAL           1591       1             15             22            87             120         1100             228         18                 8883
AZUAY            94                        2              1            5              4           82                                              505
COL IVAR         38                                       1            2              2           33                                              150
CAIAR            71                                       1             1             4           46                19              .             190
CARCHI           49                     _                 1             2             1           37                B                             160
COTOPAXI         54                      .                1            3              2           44                4                 _           247
CHIMIBORAZO      86                        1              1            4              1           60                19        _                   413
EL ORO           91                        t 1            1            5             2            79                           3                  379
ESNERALDAS       84                                       1            5              2           46                30                            279
GALAPAGOS        7                       .                1             1            3            1                 1                             30
GUAAS            .90                      5               t            14            69           99                           2                  1417
IN9ABURA         58                                      1             3             1            37               7           9                  246
LOJA             105                                     1             7             4            53               38          2                  371
LOS RIOS         69                                      1             5             1            50                11         1                  285
IAlhBI           162                                      1            8              7           144               2                       _     804
NORONA SAllt.    48                                     1             5                          29                13                            103
NAPO             37                                      1             5                          14                17                            294
PASTAZA          35                                       1             1             1           16                16                            51                     G
OQ Z
M tT2
PICHINCHA        .187       1             6              2             6              13          148               10         1                  2417                _  X
TUINGRAIUA       75                                      1             3             3            50                18                            440                 o
SU0UNBIS        19                                       1                                       13               5                 _            15
ZA. CHINCHIPE   32                         _                                                                   7_   1  2  19  10                  87
REfERRAL. Ofters the most casplex servi es to patient s retferred tfrm other fac lities. .
'PROVINCIAL: n4fers the four basic specialties and other services as needed.
3CAITON: Offers cnly the four basic specialites.



ANNEX 3
- 80 -                         Page 8 of 11
Annex 3, Table 8: ECUADOR -
GROWTH OF MOH CONSULTATIONS'
TOTAL               INCREASE IN            ANNUAL          CONSULTATIONS
YEAR       CONSULTATIONS    # OF CONSULATIONS          GROWTH RATE          PER CAPITA
(percent)
197/       3,025,251                   ---                                       0.410
1978       3,401,274                 376,023               12                    0.432
1979       3,956,895                 555,621               16                    0.509
1980       4,280,836                 323,941                8                    0.527
1981       4,699,208                 418,462               10                    0.546
1982       5,246,043                 546,745               12                    0.610
1983       5,895,792                 649,749               12                    0.666
1984       5,596,839                -298,953              - 5                    0.548
1985       5,930,904                 334,065                6                    0.632
1986       6,040,723                 109,819                2                    0.626
1987       6,114,432                  73,709                1                    0.616
Source: Ecuadorean Ministry of Health
Exclusive of Dental Care
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATE:
1977 - 1983:  11.7Z
1984 - 1987:    1.0X
AVERAGE ANNUAL INCREASE IN NUMBER OF CONSULTATIONS PROVIDED:
1977 - 1983:  478,4.'
1984 - 1987:   54,66U



Annex 3, Table 9: ECUADOR -
CONSULTATIONS' AT MOH FACILITIES
BY TYPE OF CONSULTATION
1973-1987
HEALTH
DETECTION             POST-   FAMILY            PREVENTIVE CARE OF:          CURATIVE CERTIFICATES   GRAND
YEAR  OF  CANCER PRENATAL  PARTUN  PLANNING                               SCHOOL-    CARE       AND ALL       TOTAL
INFANTS PRE-SCHOOL       AGED                   OTHERS
1973                  83,904   15,083   62,987   88,207    106,771           80,842  739,934       122,283   1,300,011
(72)     (12)      (52)      (7Z)        (82)          (6%)    (57%)          (9%)      (1002)
1974                  77,987    9,236   83,244   73,604        68,800        92,602 1,174,98       128,162   1,708,615
(5%)     (1%)      (5%)      (4Z)        (4%)          (5%)    (69Z)          (82)      (100%)
1975           523   106,820   13,837    97,812   86,663       74,248       106,625 1,415j92       178,946   2,081,393
(0%)     (52)     (12)      (5Z)      (4Z)        (42)          (5%)    (68Z)           (9%)     (1002)
1976        6,628  206,979   36,082   114,697   143,873    152,615          161,714 1,893,51      256,106   2,972,206
(O)      (72)     (1;)      (42)      (5%)        (52)          (5%)    (64%)           (9%)      (1002)
1977        13,650  226,210   42,330  108,154  141,092    166,002           148,566 1,939,78      239,274   3,026,252
(12)      (72)     (12)      (4Z)      (52)        (6S)          (52)    (64Z)           (8%)     (1OOS)    0
1978       22,117  227,515   31,392   110,187   135,091    132,813          179,596 2,286,88      225,674   3,401,274
(1%)      (7Z)     (12)      (32)      (42)        (42)          (52)   (67%)            (7%)     (1001)
1979       37,400  258,935   39,620   148,353   174,534    167,816          255,098 2,660,39      212,727   3,954,875
(12)      (72)     (12)      (42)      (42)        (42)          (7%)    (672)          (5%)      (1002)
1980       36,677  285,t85   44,739   162,274  162,288    129,931           220,846 2,970,92      267,303   4,280,836
(1%)      (72)     (1X)      (4%)      (42)        (32)          (5%)    (69Z)          (62)      (10021
1981       34,924  307,017   44,454   172,062  203,984    187,720           190,203 3,220,05      338,282   4,699,298
(1%)      (72)     (12)      (42)      (42)        (4%)          (42)    (692)          (82)      (1OO2)
1982       43,848  339,871   52,200  211,105  240,154    232,204            250,421 3,503,14      373,092   5,246,043
(1S)      (7Z)     (1%)      (42)      (52)        (4%)          (52)    (67%)          (72)       (1002)
1983       46,741  347,155   54,628  228,323  257,023    268,520            243,928 4,092,88      356,594   5,895,792
(12)      (62)     (12)      (42)      (42)        (42)          (42)    (69Z)          (6Z)      (100%) 1
1984       44,171  366,740  57,544  211,418  248,397    239,499             254,268 3,804,94      369,853   5,596,8399 
(12)      (72)     (1Z)      (42)      (42)       (42)           (5%)    (68%)          (7%)       (100%) o P
1985       46,690  377,530   56,350  213,400  268,939    237,430            255,143 4,018,39      457,022   5,930,900 o w
(12)     (6Z)    (1%)        (4Z)      (52)        (4%)          (42)    (68Z)          (82)      (1002)  ^
1986        43,941  374,374  60,138  184,193  279,478    259,253            256,799 4,137933      445,257   6,040,772
(12)      (62)     (1%)      (32)      (5%)        (42)          (4%)    (692)           (7%)    (1002)
1987       64,748  370,976   64,629   163,126  322,857    315,396         .294,395 4,146,03       372,268   6,114,430
(1%)      (62)     (12)      (32)      (52)       (52)           (5%)    (682A          (6Z)      (1001)
_E_ludeo deatal vsits.         Source: Ecuadorean ministry or Heajlth



Annex3, Table 10: ECUADOR -
VACCINATION COVERAGE, CHILDREN
UNDER ONE YEAR OF AGE
% Vaccinated
100
91$%
66%    66%
80
1 81           117%
84%
67%                 57 % 61%
60                    54%  65%
52%
40-
20                                        -
0
BCG1           DPT3 2          POLIO          MEASLES
2          ~~~~~~1988    1989   LI1990                             (txQ
Tuberculosis  Dlptherla, Portussl, Tetanus
Source: Ministry of Health                                                         



Annex 3, Table 11: ECUADOR -
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS' ATTENDANCE AT
REGISTERED LIVE BIRTHS
YEAR            NUMBER                 NUMBER                                    NUMBER
OF REGISTERED           BIRTHS W/             BIRTHS W/           BIRTHS WI         ALL BIRTHS WI    ATTENDED BIRTHS WI
UVE IURTHS           HEALTH PROF.          HEALTH PROF.       MOH PROVIDER        MOH PROVIDER          MOH PROVIDER
1977         223.653                75.789                33.9                 27,563             12.3                 36.4
1978         230,259                82,784                36.0                 55,007             23.9                 66.4
1979         232.436                86,652                37.3                  71,555            30.8                 82.6
1980         223.351                89.021                39.9                  71.328            31.9                 80.1
1981         223.182                96,770                43.4                  77,597            34.8                 80.2
1982         216.756                98,517                45.5                  83,029            38.3                 84.3
1983         206,428                95.289                46.2                  84,503            40.9                 88.7
1984         206.243                98,259                47.6                 85.013             41.2                 86.5
1985         209,974                101.408               48.3                  90,367            43.0                 89.1                               D
1986         205,797                105,167               51.1                 90,691             44.1                 86.2                               1
1987         204.475                107,931               52.8                 90.277             44.2                 83.6
NOTE: The Inraews    the prpoion of el birtts attendd from 1977 to 1987 we 55.8%.
The hce he pin porton of bir  attwd by eMCKi pWvdwf fom 1977 to 1987 w  228%.
Souce: Eduen Min Wt" of Heit
0  z
0



-85 -                                    ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
ThE MINISTRY OF HEALTH'S
HEALTh SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
TABLE 4.1
PROVINCES, TOTAL HEALTH SERVICE AREAS IN THE COUNTRY,
AND POPULATION AND AREAS INCLUDED IN
THE HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
PROVINCES            T     OF AREAS          AREAS             TOTAL          POPULATION    % OF POP.
COVERED BY    POPULATION           COVERED BY    COVERED
PLAN            IN AREA             f AAN          BY PLAN
1.  ESMERALDAS                        8                 6                 307,190            225,334        73
2.  M4ANABI                          23                14               1,026,066            536,828        52
3.  GUAYAS                           33                20               2,463,423          1,150,369        47
4.  LOS RIOS                          9                 7                 530,844            367,763        69
S.  EL ORO                            9                 7                 415,073            287,419        69
6.  CARCHI                            4                 2                 141,992             63,910        45
7.  IMSASURA                          6                 5                 273,261            214,852        79
8.  PICHINCHA                        25                14               1,734,942            760,586        44
9.  COTOPAXI                          8                 5                 283,236            171,435        61
10. TUNGURAHUA                       10                 S                 366,523            189,234        52
11. CHINBORAZO                        9                 7                 360,600            270,925        75
12. SOLIVAR                           6                 5                 170,593            126,965        74
13. CAAAR *                           6                 2                 189,102             66,569        35
14. AZUAY                            13                10                 506,546            299,576        59
15. LOJA                              8                 7                 389,632            257,872        66
16. SUCUMBIOS                         3                 3                  77,450             64,145        83
17. NAPO                              4                 3                 102,623             83,034        81
18. PASTAZA                           2                 1                  40,714             30,986        76
19. MORONA                            6                 4                  95,685             54,672        57
20. ZAMORA                            3                 3                  66,929             55,485        83
TOTAL                     195               130               9,542,224          5,277,959        55
*  The low percent of coverage in this province is to avoid duplicating services as there are aiready other
projects in this province.



TABLE 4.2
DISTRIBUTION OF THE POPULATION BY PROVINCE/CANTON.
URBAN.RURAL AREA, AND COVERAGE BY
THE HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
PROVINCE - CANTON   TOTAL POPULATION                               POPULATION COVERED BY THE PLAN            % OF POP. COVERED BY THE PLAN
URBAN        RURAL          TOTAL          URBAN         RURAL         TOTAL        URBAN  |RURAL             TOTAL
CARCHI                      57.322      84.670          141.992        19.178        44.732        63.910         33,5         52.8        45,0
1 TULCAI                  36.947      33.367          70.314         14.658        14.058        28.716         39.7        42,1         40,8
2 BOL IVAR                 1.935      13.236           15.171             0         6.495         6.495          0.0         49.1        42.8
3 ESPEJO                   3.943       9.172           13.115     ^   4.520         6.383        10.906        114.6         69 6        83.2
4 HIRA                     2.576      11.529           14.105             0        17.793  _    17.793           00         15.3 3      126.1
5 NONTUFAR                11.921      17.366          29.287              0             0             0                0.0          0.0
IMBA8URA                   129.770     143.491         273.261            113        98.374       211.760         87,4        68.6         77,5
1 IBARRA                 80.477       36.744         117.221         58.791        31.709        90.500          3.1        86.3         77,2
2 ANTONIO ANTE            14.885      13.526          28.411              0             0             0          0.0         0.0       0.0 .
3 COTACACHI                6.046      27.225          33.271          7.600        22.624        30.224        125,7        83,1         90,8   |0
4 OTAVALO                 21.542      43.609          65.151      ^  35.785        23.068        58.853        16. 1        52.9         90.3
S PINANPIRO                4.950      10.567          15.517      *  11.210         5.700        16.910        226.5        53.9        109,0
6 URaU=l                   1.870      11.820          13.690              0        15.273        15.273          0,0       129.2        111,6
PICHINCHA                1.094.318     460.590       1.734.942        638.117       121.506       759.623         50 1        26,4         43,8
I QUITO               1.094.318      293.569       1.387.887        529.154       40.754        569.908        48,4         13.9         41,4
2 CAYANSE                 16.946      29.584          46.530              0             0             0          0.0         0.0          0,0
3 IEJIA                    8.783      36.669          45.452      *  14.189        21.664        35.853        161,6        59,1
4 PE4RO  RONCA CO          2.662      12.525          15.187              0             0             0          0.0           0          0,
Inctudes what the census calls periteral                      -P 3>
I a The census data is not precise as the indiginous population is not included.  This data is from the goverrnent autnorities in the provinces.                    Z
S a This Is an estimate.  There is a temporat and migrant population.  for the ptan the highest estimate was used.                  
NOTE:  Of a total of 166 cantons, there was not offical, reliable data for 15, approximately 9X,                                                                    X
00



PROVINCE -CANTON   TOTAL POPULATION                        POPULATION COVERED BY THE PLAN   | % OF POP. COVERED BY THE PLAN
URBAN      RURAL        TOTAL         URBAN         RURAL       TOTAL        URBAN       RURAL    TOTAL
5 RUWIIAHUI           37.595      11.221        48.816              0          0            0           0,0        0,0       0,0
6 STO DOMINGO        114.048      77.022       191.070         94.774     59.088      153.862          83.1      76,7       80.5
COTOPAXI              _ 66.274     216.962      283.236          73.031     98.400      171.437         110,2      45,4       60.5
ILATACUUGA             39660       89287        128947          29051      51876       80927           n,3       58,1 
2 LA NANA              7.616      12.948        20.564          9.661     10.136      19.797          126,9      78,3       96.3
3 PANGA                2.337      14.2_         1?.329       *  6.072    16.997       23.049          259.8    113.2       133AO
APUJILI                5.289      49.612       54.901        *  15.109    17.002      32.111          285.7      34.3 I     585
5SALCEDO               7.594      38.350        45.944              0          0           0            0,0       0.0        9.0
6 SAtJNISIL            3.778      ll.m          15.551       A  13.144     2.409       15.553       f              I         I
TUNGURAGUA             151.931     214.592      366.523          67.742    120.572      188.314          44,6      56.2       51,4
1 AMBATO             124.518     104.668      229.186          49.823     73.430     123.253           40,0      70.2       53.8
2 BAOS                 9.550       5.914        15.464              0          0           0            00     0             0,0
3 CEVALLOS             1.740       4.207        5.947               0          0           0            0,0       0,D        0,0                     I
4 MOCHA                  958       5.398        6.356               0      8.149       8.149            0,.0    151.0      128.2 
S PATATE               1.584       8.708        10.292              0          0           0            00        0.0        0
6 QUER0                1.655      14.012        15.667       1  7.508      6.925      14.443                      I          f
7 PELILEO              5.937      35.208       41.145        e 10.411    23.446       33.857          175.4      6S,6       82,3
| PILLARO              5.182      28.208        33.390              0          0           0            0,0       0,0        0,0
9 TISALEO                807       8.269        9.076               0      8.622       8.622            0,0     104.3       95,0
BOUVAR                  32.852     137.741      170.593          39.377     87.587      126.964         119,9      63,6       74,4
1 GUARANDA            15.909      61.452        77.361         11.719     34.964      46.683    .       3.7      56.9       6 0
2 CHILtAHES            2,007      18.403        20.410           5.667    11.682       17.349         282.4      63 5       85.0
3 CHIIMO               3.557      22.575        26.132       1 13.269      8.944       22.213                      A         I    | 
4 ECHEANDIA            3.479       5.577        9.056           2.957      5.776       8.733           85,0    105.6        9t2 Xn
S SAN MIUEL            4.940      22.887        27.827          5.765     17.885      23.650          116,7      78,1       85,0                    0 4:
|  6 CAUEUA            2.960       6.847        9.807               0      8.336       8.336            0,0    121,7        85.0
CFIMBORAZO             177.823    242.777       420.600          92.510    178.415     270.925           52,0      73.5       64,4
1 RIOBAMBA            92.664      67.769      160.433          38.664     49.110      87. T76          41 7      72,S      _547
2 ALAUSI               5.432      40.745       46.177        *  8.309    27.126       35.435          153,0      6o,6       76,7



PROVINCE - CANTON       TOTAL POPULATION                           POPULATION COVERED BY THE PLAN          % OF POP. COVERED fY THE PLAN
URBAN        RURAL          TOTAL         URBAN         RURAL        TOTAL         URBAN        RUR .L    TOTAL
3 COETA                      2.098       45.915         48.013      A  12.703      40.175        52.878       A               A          A
4 cgwwo                      3.126        6.559          9.685              0      10.685        10.685            O O      162 9     110
S CNWCHI                     3.317       10.057          13.374         3.317      10.057        13.374          100        100,0    100,0
6 CUANOJE                    1.952       28.474         30.426      f  14,669      15.757        30.426       a              f           
7 GUANO                     66.560       30.247         96.807         14.848      21.952        36 801          22.3        72.6      38,0
|     PALEATANTA             2.211        7.176          9.387              0           0            O             0.0        0,0       0
9 PENIPE                       463        5.835          6.298              0       3.553         3.553            0,0       60,9      56.4
CAFJAR                        55.541      133.561        189.102         14.777      51.791       66.568            26.6       38.8      35,2
1 AZGIUES                  21.095        47.462         68.557_                  0             0            0     0.0        a.o        o,.o 
2 BIlLIAN                    3.621       18.683         22.304             0            0            0            0,0         0,0       0,0
3 CANAR                     11.117       54.524         65.641      14.777         51.791       66.568           132,9       95.0     101.4_
4 LA TRONCAL                19.708       12.892         32.600             0            0             0                       0. 0  0.0
AZUAY                        219.407      287.139        506.546        131.329     169.230       300.559           59,9       58,9      59,3
|I1 CUENICA                195.738      136.379        332.117        58.748       69.255       123.003           30.0        O.O      38.5 |
2 GItON                      2.867       10.336         13.203      4  10.197       3.006        13.203       A              A           A lo
3 CUALACEO                   8.533       36.817         45.350         12.544      26.523        39.067         '1470        72,0      86,1
4 IABON                        975       16.721         17.696      a  6.727       12.551        19.278   .       89.9       7,.1     18
5 PAUTE                      3.172       32.018         35.190         3.561       29.897       33.458           ;      12,3  9
6 PIUCARA                      010       15.788         16.598     S  19.057        2.351       21.408        S              S           S
7 SAN FERNANDO               1.376        2.933          4.309      I  4.309            0        4.309          313,2         0,0     100,0
8 SANTA ISABEL               2.926       14.115         17.041         3.079       13.712        16.791          105.2    97.1         98,5
9 SIC SIG                    3.010       22.032         25.042      ^  13.107      11.935        25.042          435,4       54,2     1000
LOJA                         15f.348      233.292        389.632        102.725     144.290      247.015           65.7        61.r      63.4
1 LOJA                     96.220       49.061         145.281        47.199        9.837       57.036           49.1        20.1      a9.3, !..
2 CALVAS                    13.748       21.370         35.118             0            0            0            0.0.        0.0       0 
3 CATAMATO                  13.093       10.197         23.290        14.066        5.489       19.555           107.4       53,8      840 
4 CELICA                     3.453       10.385         13.838             0       13.281       13.281            0.0   127.9          96,0 oJ
5 CNAGUARPAiNA               1.045        8.643          9.688             0        7.379        7.37s            0,0        85, 
6 ESPINDOLA                  1.361       16.374         17.735     a  4.878        11.970  -    16.848          358.4        73.1      95.0



PROVINCE- CANTON    TOTAL POPULATION                              POPULATION COVERED BY THE PLAN         % OF POP. COVERED BY THE PLAN
URBAN        RURAL         TOTAL          URBAN        RURAL       TOTAL        URBAN       RURAL      TOTAL
7 GUANZAWMA                   1.678      15.685          17.363            0      12.303        12.303         '00        78.4      70,9
8 IACARA                    10.347        6.972         17.319     * 12.024        5.204       17.228       116.2        74,6       99,5
9 PALTAS                     5.110       29.062         34.172     * 12.144       20.834       32.97e       237.7        71.7       965.   i
|10 UTANIO                    3.067       13.407         16.474         7.343       8.154       15.497       239,4        60 8
|1 SARAGRO                    2.840       24.104         26.944         5.071      23.087       28.158       178L6        9j8 104,5
12 SOZORANCA                    970        8.733          9.703             0       8.769        8.769         0.0       100.4       90,4
13 ZAPOIILLO                  1.447       8.729          10.176            0       10.814       10.814         0 0       123.9      106,3
14 PINDAL                     1.147       6.240           7.387            0        7.169        7.169         0,0       114,9       97,0
15  tCILANIGA                   814       4.330           5,144            0           0             0         00           .0        0.0
ESMERALDAS                   13f.379      172.811        307. .0       112.596     106.880      219.476        83,8        61.8       71,4
1 ESIERALOAS                98.065       74.584        172.649        77.760      35.676      113.436        79.3        47,8       65.7
2 ELOT ALFARO                4.340      23.169          27.509     *  7.783       15.703       23.486       179,3        67,8       85,4
3 HJISNE                     4.702       17.852         22.554        5.764       12.882       18.646       122,6        72,2       82-7
4 OUJININDE                 16.074       46.532         62.606        11.s73      31.281       42.854         2.0        67.2       68.5 |
5 SAN LORENZO               11.198       10.674         21.872         9.716      11.338       21.054        86.8       106 2       96 3
MANABI                       431.610     594.456       1.026.066       247.541     255.356      502.897        57,4        43,0       49,0
1 PORTOVIEJO               134.180      67.389         201.569       83.064      60.398       143.462        61,9        89,6       71,2
2 BOLIVAR                   12.069      25.301          37.370        26.818      6.815        33.633       222.2        26,9       90.0
3 CHOKE                     40.958       73.321        114.279            0       8.816         8.816         0.0_       . 12.0   .    7
4EL CARMEN                  22.626      31.816          54.442            0           0             0          j                      .   I
5FLAVO ALFMRO                3.595      20.289          23.884            0                       0,0                     0 ,0       0.0
6 JIJIPIIPA                 32.230       48.239         80.469            0           9             0         0.0         0.0        0.0 
7 JUAIN                      3.765       14.110         17.875            0       16.086       86.545         0,0       114.0      484,2
8 NIITA                    122.426       7.163         129.589        70.459       8.273       78.732        57,6       115.5       60,8 
9 NONTECRISTI               11.267       26.663         37.930            0           0             0         0,0         0,0        0,0            LA X
10 PAJAdI                     5.394      36.439         41.833        10.950      27.764        38.714       203,0        76,2       92-5           O
11 PICHINCHA                  3.303      25.917         29.220         4.869      21.187        26.056       147,4       8a,.7    89.2               cO
12 ROCAFUERTE                6.911       19.606         26.517         8.040           Q        8.040        116,3         0,0      30.3
13 SANTA ANA                  6.417      52.960         59.377        13.338      40.101       53.439        207,9        75.7      90,0



PROVINCE - CANTON    TOTAL POPULATION                              POPULATION COVERED BY THE PLAN          % OF POP. COVERED BY PLAN
URBAN        RURAL          TOTAL          URBAN         RURAL        TOTAL        URBAN        RURAL   TOTAL
14 SUCRE                     15.131       90.983         106.114         10.949       41.886      52.835           72.4      46,0     49,8
15 T0SAGM                     6.945       25.132          32.077      *  19.054        9.815      28.869         274,4      39.1      90.0
162jDE NATO                   4.393       29.128          33.521             0        14.215      14.215           O O      4B,8      4
LOS rlos                    201.999      328.845         530.844        185.063      182.700     367.763          91.6      55.6      69,3
1 BARANOTO                  50.249       56.077         106.326         50.908      41.713       92.621         101,3      74.4    87,1
2 IIAA                      2.135        27.214          29,349      *  11.239       15.175      26.414          526.4      SS.8     90.0
3 N1TALVO                    7.073       11.784          18.857              0       18.150      18.150          0.0       154 0     96,3
4 PUEBlI.0i!Jo               4.830       17.537          22.367              0       20.131      20.131           0 0      114,8     90.0
5 IUVEEo                    87.789      111.017         t98.806         43.216       28.567      71.783          49.2       25.7   ..36.1
6 URDAIETA                   4.247       19.156%         23.403      *  14.901        6.162      21.063          350.9      32.2     90,0
7 VENTANAS                  23.947       36.025          59.972         28.132       24.529      52.661          117.5      68.1   _ 87.8
8 VINCES                    18.426       36.091          54.517      * 36.667        12.759      49.426          199,0      35,4     90.7 L
9 PALEN4UE                   3.303       13.944          17.247              0       15.514      15.514           .       11.3     90    |
GUAYAS                     1.8t8.750      584.673       2.463.423      1.008.039      152.330    1.160.369         53,7      26,1      47,1
I GUAYAQUIL              1.475.118       56.111       1.531.229        870.271       25.269     895.540          59,0      45,0      53.5
2 A8AQAIIZON                3.616       11.134          14.750             0            0            0_          0.0       0.0       0,0
3 8LAO                       5.105        5.599          10.704             0            0            0           0,0       0,0       0.0
4 OALZAR                    21.468       22.820          44.288         24.601       10.663      35.264          114.6      46,7     79.6
S COLIlES                    3.521       16.256          19.777      * 10.537         5.269      15.806          299.3     32.4      79.9
6 DAULE                     24.134       69.850          93.984      * 44.179        40.751      85.130          183.9      S8.3     90.6
7 DURAN                     81.366        2.982          84.348             0            0            0           0, 0      0.0       0.0
a EL EPALME                 22.831       33.172          56.003         25.850       15.858      41.708          113.2     47j8      74,5
9 EL TRIUIFO                16.125        8.769          24.894             0            0            0           0,0       0,0    _n 
10 NILAGRO                   93.010       28.459         121.469             0            0            0           0               . 0,0  0.        OQ
11 NARANJAL                  14.004  _23.88               37.892             0            0           0            0,0       00        0,0 
'12 IARANJIO.,               15.773       9.800           25.536             0            0           0            0.0       0,0       0.0
13 PALESTIIA                  5.164       5.784           10.948             0        8.758        8.758           0,0    J151.4      80,0 
14 PEDRO CARB0               13.931       16.934         30.865          16.945      11.t11       28.056         121,6      65,6      .90,
15 SALINAS                   19.402       65.330          84.732             0            0           0            0,0 0.00



PROVINCE- CANTON         TOTAL POPULATION                            | POPULATION COVEnED BY THE PLAN              % OF POP. COVERED BY THE PLAN
URBAN          RURAL          TOTAL          URBAN          RURAL         TOTAL         URBAN        RURAL       TOTAL
16 SA OANOIOO                   9.117        24.464          33.581              0             0              0          0.0         0,0          0,0
17 SANTA ELENA                17.232         68.313          85.545              0             0              0         0 0          0,0          0.0
18 SANTA LtClA                 5.254         22.10S          27.359          6.001        10.999         17.000        114.2        49.8         62,1
19 tRBINA JAO                  6.928         36.923          43.851          9.455        23.652         33.107        1365         641          755
20 VYAUCACI                    9.584         54.171          63.75S              0             0              0          0.0       0.      _      0,0
21 PLAYAS                      16.104         1. 0           17.913              0             0              0          0.0         0.0          0.0
EL ORO                         290.902        124.171        415.073        192.647        94.772        287.419         66,2        76,3         69,2
1 IACHALA                   143.892         15.191         159.083              2        18.064        142.297        86.  3      118 9         894
2 ARENILtAS        -          ll.S48         7.297          18.84s5     ^  13.244         4.753         17.997        114.7        65.1         95.5
3 ATAKUALPA                    1.347         4.750           6.097              0         8.218          8.218          0,0       7l3.0        1348
4 BALSAS                      2.117          1.911           4.028              0         4.028          4.028          0.0       210,8        100 0
SCNILLA                        1.t57         1.601           2.758              0             0              0         0,0          0,0          0,0
6 EL CUJAO                    11.014        18.440          29.454      ^  14.029        12.480         26.509        127.4        67.7         90.0
7 IUAQUILLAS                 26.870            440          27.310         19.786         6.241         26.027         7 ..6     1418.4         95.3   f 
8 NARCASELLE                   2.738         2.060           4.798              0         3.497              0     0              169,8L 
9 PASAJE                     33.02'         18.717          51.738              0             0              0          0.0         0,0          0.0
10 PIHAS                      10.293         11.594          21.887         11.431        13.075         24.506        111.1       112.8    _ 112,0   i
11 PORTOVELO                   5.699          4.562          10.261              0        10.218         10.218         0,0        224.0         99,6
12 SANTA ROSA                 33.106         17.861          50.967              0             0              0         0.0          0,0         0.0
13 ZARUU                       7.266         15.688          22.954      '  9.924          9.790         19.714        136,6        62,4         85,9
14 LAS LAJAS                     834          4.059           4.893              0         4.408          4.408         0.0        108,6         90,1
SUCUMBIOS                      20.328         57.122          77.450         22.82E        41.31S         64.143        112.3        72,3         82,8
1 LAGO AGRIO                 13.089         29.524          42.613         14.4u7       22.555          36.962        110t1        76,4         86,7
2 GONZALO PIZARRO                782      _  3.873           4.65S              0         4.S44          4.544         0.0        117.3         97.6        O 12Z
3PUTUIIAYO                       743         4.027           4.770              0         3.957          3.957         0.0         98,3         83,0_
4 SHUSMUFINDI                 4.724         13.11          17.843              0         3.317          3.317         0A0         25.3         18,6
S   SoPios                       285         2.158           2.443       A  8.421         6.942         15.363        I            A               - 
6 CASCALES                       705         4.421           5.126              0             0              0         0,0          0,.          0,0



PROVINCE - CANTON       TOTAL POPULATION                      POPULATION COVERED BY THE           % or PoP. COVERED BY THE
PLAN                               PLAN
_    URBAN       RURAL       TOTAL        URBAN       RURAL       TOTAL      URBAN       RURAL      TOTAL
NAPO                          23.712      78.911       102.623      30.596     52.437      83.033       129.0      66.5        80.9
1 TE__                       7.943      26.974       34.817        6.978     20.297      27.275        87 9   _75,_          7B.3
2 AGUARICO                     387       2.803        3.190      1 2.022      5.125       7.147       1 f         f
3 ARtCN10@IA                 2.550      16.899        19.449       4.622     12.137      16.759       181.3       71.8       B6.2
4 EL CIACo                   1.699       2.906        4.605            0         0            0         0         00          00
5 JOYA DE LOS SACNAS         2.533      13.698        16.231     A 5.690      6.995      12.685       A           A          f
6 ORELLAA         _          7.803      11.869        19.672     * tl.284     7.883      19.167       144,6       66,4       97,4
7 JilJGS                       797       3.862        4.659           0          0            0                                , 0
PASTAZA         .             14.802      25.968       40.770       12.179     11.604      23.783        82.3      44.7        58.3
I PASTAZA                   14.124      20.689       34.813       12.179     11.604      23.783        86,2      56,1        68,3
2 NERA                         678       5.279        5.957           0          0            0        0.0        0.0       0.0
MORONA SANTIAGO               23.557      72.128       95.685       20.545     31.984      52.529        87.2      44,3        54.9
1 NOROHA                     8.092      29.768       37.860        3.693     8.169       11.862       4S.6       27.4        3t,3
2 GCULAQUIZA                 4.214       8.862        13.076     A 6.132    11.027       17.159       1           A          I
3 LINON INDANZA              2.647      10.148       12.795            0         0            0                   00          0,0
4 PALORA                     2.402       5.188        7.590            0         0            0         0,0        0,0        0.0
S SANTIAGO                   1.5#1       7.610        9.201      A 2.691     6.194        8.885       a           A          I
6 SU[A                       4.6t1      10.552       15.163    t   8.029      6.594      14.623   f               A f
ZAMORA CHINCWIPE              16.391      50.378       66.729       17.168     37.469      54.637       105.0      74,4        81.9
I ZANORA                     8.076      20.576       28.652        7.037     15.854      22.891       87.1        7. 1       79.9
2 CHINCHIPE                  1.817      10.487        12.304     A 4.161      6.056      10.217       f           I          I
3 ANGARITZA                1.211         3.262        4.473            0      3.579       3.579         0.0 .09.7            .0
4 TAYMB 1                      450       2.988        3.438           0       1.583       1.583         0,0      53 0        4                   A Z
5 TANTZABA                   4.797      13.065       17.862      1 5.970    10.397       16.367       I           f          f                   O
._______   =_________  ._____                                         0 _o



-   -3 -                     ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT ARZAS
-------------------------------------------------------
PROVINCE       AREAS                        TYPE
-------------------------------------------------------
PICHINCHA      1. CHIMBACALLE               M
2. GUAMANI                   M
3. LA MAGDALENA              M
4.  CHILLOGALLO              M
5. NOR-ORIENTE               v.
S.  STO-DOMINGO SUR         M
GUAYAS         7. GUASMO SUR                M
8.  TRINITARIA               M
9. GUASMO NOPTE              M
10. SANTIAGO DE GUAYAQUIL    M
11. EL EXPALME              U-R
12. BASTION POPULAR         M
CHIMBORAZO     13. GUAMOTE                  R
14. RIOBAMBA SUR-ESTE       U-R
15. ALAUSI                   R
MANABI         16. CUBA LIBRE               U
17. ANDRES DE VERA           U
18. PAJAN                    R
LOJA           19. LOJA SUR OCCIDENTAL      U-R
20. SARAGURO                 R
21. CATAMAYO                 U-R
AZUAY          22. YANUNCAY                 U-R
23. SANTA ISABEL             R
CARCHI         24. TULCAN 1                 U-R
COTOPAXI       25. SAQUISILI                R
26. EL CORAZON               R
BOLIVAR        27. SIMIATUG                 R
28. SAN MIGUEL               R
TUNGURAHUA     29. AMBATO                   U-R
30. GUERO                    R
ESMERALDAS     31. ESMERALDAS NORTE         U-R
32. ESMERALDAS SUR           U-R
33. SAN LORENZO              R
EL ORO         34. MACHALA SUR              U-R
LOS RIOS       35. BABAHOYO NOR-ESTE        U-R
36. BABAHOYO SUR-ESTE        U-R
IMBABURA       37. OTAVALO                  U-R
38. IBARRA SUR               U-R
CANAR          39. CANAR                    R
SUCUMBiOS      40. NUEVA LOJA               R
------------------------------------------------------
14 - METROPOLITAN
R - RURAL
U - URBAN



- 95 -
ANNIEX 5
Page 1 of 24
METHODOLOGY FOR CLASSIFYING THE POPULATION IN ECUADOR'S CANTONS
ACCORDING TO A TAXONOMY OF CRITICAL POVERTY
1.   METHODOLOGY FOR CONSOLIDATING THE RESULTS OF STUDIES ON
CRITICAL POVERTY
The taxonomy of critical poverty used to identify the poorest regions in the
country is based on the results of three national studies. Each of these studies
considered different socio-economic criteria and offered different approachos
for categorizing poverty levels. In orderto standarize the poverty classification,
as much as possible, it was necessary to group together several of the poverty
categories used in each study. The three studies were:
1.1  "SUAREZ J., ET AL" STUDY
:   -    Bibliographical Reference:
Suarez, J., et al: "La Situaci6n de Selk  en ei Ecuador," Ministry of
Public Health Press, Quito, 1988.
-    Standard Categories:
I    =    17 to 20 poverty indicators
11    =    13 to 15 poverty indicators
III   =    9 to 12 poverty indicators
IV    =    5 to 8 poverty indicators
V    =    1 to 4 ooverty indicators
VI   =    0 or no poverty indicators
1.2 "C.E.A.S." STUDY
Bibliographical Reference:
Breilh, J., et al: "Deterioro de la Vida," Corporaci6n Editora Nacional,
Quito, 1990,
Standard Categories:
I    =    60 to 64 poverty indicators
11    =    40 to 48 poverty Indicators
I11   =    27 to 36 poverty indicators
IV    =    16 to 24 poverty Indicators
V    -    6 to 12 poverty indicators
VI   =    2 to 5 poverty indicators



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 24
1.3 MALNUTRITION STUDY
Bibliographical Reference:
Freire, W., et al: "Diagn6stico Alimentario Nutricional y de Salud del
Ecuador," CONADE, Quito, 1989.
Standard Categories (on the basis of malnutrition indicators):
I         10 to 8 points
11    =    7 to 5 points
III   =    4 to 1 points
IV    =    0 points or not shown in the study
1.4 SUMMARY CLASSIFICATION OF CRITICAL POVERTY
Method:
All standard categories in studies (1), (2), and (4) were summed up. The
rating from this summation was later converted into a new summary
classification.
Summary classification of poverty:
I    =    4 to 6 points (maximum priority)
11    =    7 to 9 points (high priority)
ll   =    10 to 12 points (medium priority)
IV    =    13 to 15 points (low priority)
2.   ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION OF CRITICAL POVERTY CATEGORIES
2.1  Table 5.1 shows the standard categories used to classify poverty in each of the
provinces' cantons (some of which were grouped with neighbor cantons
according to the country's regionalization plan designed for the Health Sector
Development Plan). In line with the proposed methodology, these categories
were summed up to obtain a rating and construct a summary classification of
critical poverty (from I to IV) for each cantor, or group of cantons in the
country.
2.2  Preliminary population data from the last census of November 1990 was
available for each canton or group of cantons.
2.3  All the studies on critical poverty that were used to construct the summary
classification assumed, for the purpose of poverty classification, that each
canton was homogenous. However, this is not necessarily true as each canton
shows both extreme poverty and wealth.



* 97 _
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 24
Consequently, it was necessary to turn to other studies such as Carlos
Larrea's' which draw from the Household Survey conducted by INEM
("Instituto NaL.onal de Empleo" - National Employment Institute) in November
198d. 3ased on this study, it is possible to conclude that 54.9% of the
population lives under some degree of poverty 'from indigence with basic needs
unmet to poverty with basic needs met). To obtain the population most likely
to live i, critical poverty, this percentage was converted into a coefficient and
applied to the census population of each canton in the country.
2.4  The Health Sector Development Plan's target population was established
following these studies on critical poverty and according to the needs of
different localities of the country, using the information provided by local
managers and technicians of the Provincial Health Directorates.
For each canton, the Plan population was compared to the population living in
critical poverty. Results show that in most cases (in 79 out of 129 areas), the
Plaiu population was larger, especially, in those cantons showing higher poverty
levels (:;ee Table 5.1).
2.5  It was very difficult to identify the indigenous population, due to the lack of
3liable and comprehensive studies on this subject, and to overt difficulties in
-lefining the ethnic category "indian" or "native."
Th as, it was necessary to infer the number of people comprising the indigenous
population of the country from the limited data known to be reliable and from
data on the number of students registered in the bilingual-bicultural courses of
the national education system. This was done based on a definition of the
indigenous category according to cultural factors related with children
education, language preservation, and the permanence of customs and cultural
values.
In addition, results of a survey, conducted by the "Cor.federacion de
Nacionalidades Indrgenas de la Amazonia Ecuatoriana" (Confederation of the
Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon - CONAFENIAE) were
obtained. Although this survey focused only on provinces in this region of the
country, the results correlated well with those of other studies, and the
previously stated conclusion was confirmed.
In sum, the most likely indigenous population from each province in the country
was obtained, and its percentage was calculated for the Plan's target
population. This varied from 0.93% in Carchi to 83.44% in Morona Santiago.
The provinces of Manabf, Los Rfos, Guayas, and Oro were discarded because
Larrea, C.: "Necesidades Basicas, Pobreza y Subempleo en el area urbana del
Ecuador," Toronto, March 1990, mimeograph.



- 98 _
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 24
they do not have any indigenous population, except for a small 'shuar" group
in the Guayas province. On the average, the indigenous population represents
8.03% of the total population covered by the Plan.
2.6  Table 5.2 shows a national summary of the different categories of critical
poverty. The first two categories, likely to correspond to levels of indigence,
comprise about 14.5% of the country's population, while 40.57% falls into
Categories IlIl and IV, which correspond to poverty in a more general sense.
Therefore, 55.08% of the population lives in some degree of poverty.
This data is consistent with other studies carried out in the country, especially
with the previously cited INEM Household Survey. The 42.98% of population
living in non-poverty conditions, including the middle and upper classes, can be
considerequ, an acceptable figure..
2.7  The Plan's target population was established in each category of poverty.
Table 2 shows that coverage extends from a high of 153.16% in category I to
86.4% in category IV.
This variation is explained by the f-act that the population covered by the Plan
does not correspond exactly to the geo-political limits of each canton or each
parish for each health area selected. In practice, a health area in conditions of
extreme poverty includes generally parishes or neighboring localities from other
cantons which are likely to show similar poverty conditions.
A good example of this is the case of "Area de Saquisilr (Province of Cotopaxi)
classified as category I (extreme poverty). According to the census, the canton
Saquisllf has a population of 15,551 persons, of which an estimated 8,829 live
in critical poverty conditions. The Health Service Area of Saquisili covers
62,973 people of which only a few live in the Saquisilf canton, while the
majority comes from the cantons of Latacunga and Pulilr.
Plan coverage of poverty categories 11 through IV oscillates between 108.91 %
and 86.40%, confirming the hypothesis stated in the previous paragraph.
However, it should be noted that the Plan's target population would Include,
in every case, a small percentage of people living in non-poverty conditions.
The most important conclusion is that 97.8 percent of the population living in
poverty conditions will be covered by the Health Sector Development Plan.
3.   HEALTH-RELATED CHARACTERISTICS OF ECUADOR'S CANTONS
Table 5.3 has been prepared on the basis of data from the 1988 INEM's
Household Survey. It provides health-related information in each of the
country's cantons.



TABLE 5.1
CLASSIFICATION OF THE POPULATION
IN ECUADOR'S CANTONS ACCORDING TO POVERTY CRITERIA
No.    PROVINCES AND    I VJPULATION   CRITICAL    CRITICAL             POP.         POP.       % OF POP.        DIF.       INDIG.   % INOI.
CANTONS                         POVERTY    POVERTY         BELOW          IN          BELOW       PLAN POP.   POP.         POP.
SCORE    CATEGORY   CRTICAL   MON PLAN    CRITICAL               AND POP.                  IN
POVERTY                   POVERTY        BELOW                RELATION
IN MON       CRITICAL              TO TOTAL
,_       _       KPLAN       POVERTY                 POP.
CARCHI
i   Tulcin (Tulcin 1)           70.314          12        III         39.920         28.716        71.93         11.204     =
2   Bolfvar                      15.171          10       III          B.613   ---                  0,00         8.613
3-4I  Espejo-NIra                  29.220         11        III         15.454        35.194        227,74        19.748 
S    Nont,ifar                   29.287          10       fIt         16.627    ---                 0 0C         16.627               _
SUBTOTAL                   141.992         43          8.60      80.614         63.910        79.28         16.704   59-           8,93
IMBA8URA
6    Ibarra                     117.221          10        III        66.550        105.761        158.93        39.221
_ Ibarra Sur                                                                   47.811        _              47.811
-    *Ibarra Norte        ,                                                           57.960                       57.960
07   Antonio Ante                28.411           10        III        16.130        ---             0.00         16.130
8    Cotacachi                  33.271            6         1          18.889       33.318         176.39        14.429
9   Otavalo                     65.151           8         II         36.989        58.853         159.11        21.864
ID
0



No.   PROVINCES AND   POPULATION    CRITICAL    CRITICAL            POP,        POP.        OF POP       VI.            .    % "1Me.
CANTOINS                       POVERTY      POVERTY      BELOW         IN         3ELOW     PLAU  POP.    POP.        POP.
SCORE      CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRMTICAL   AND POP.                      IN
POVERTY                 POVERTY      BELOW                 FtLATION
tN mOm    CRITICAL                TO TOTAL
_ _____________    ___________                 _________  PLAN                                  POVERTY                   POP.
10   Pleeiro                 15.517            7        II   _     8810         16.910      191,95       8.100
11   Ur         _                     13.6901          II. _I _.                 _ _            0        7.M
SUBTOTAL               2n.261            52         8 67    155.140      214.852      138.49      59.712     55.202        2S,o9
PICHNCHA                                                                                  _          ___=
12   Quito                1.387.887           11        III       787.952      570.878       72.45     217.074
_     Gumni   _                                                           57.430                  57.430
*Chi(IoatlIo     .- -Y.625                                                                        56.625   _
_ EpIetachin_                                                             31.740                  31.740
_ Nor-orIente                                                             50.270                  50.270
I_*11anesalito                                                              11.571 MM.51   _
_  "-occidntle                                                            56.355                  56.355   __
*Los Mos             _       _                                   -        34.005                  34.005               ___                    o
____ L*a NagdaIena       _                                                       35.6                     5.646 _S.6C6         _
_ Pewbtchup                                                               72.064                   2.064
*La Tain                                                                  82.341                  T .341
_    *CbImncal le         8_ -                    _                       82.831                  d2.831
13   Coya_be_    _           46.S30            9        it         26.417       ---           0.00      26.417
14   Relia     _             45 .452          13        IV         25.805       33.357      129.27       7.552
1S   Pedro oucaY0             15. t87          9        I i         8.622        --0.0                   8.22         _
16   Elamhui                 48.816           15        IV         27.715       --            0.00      27.715
17   Ste Demingo             19tI070         tI         III       108.477      156.351      14 13       47.874
Colorado                                                                       _                                                          w _
'Sto Domingo Sur          .                                     _         E8.550                   MM8.550             _    _
'Sto Domingo Nor                 _                                        67.801                  67.801                                  O _n
SUBTOTAL             1.374.942          68         11 .3    984.988      760.586       77.22     224.482     22.288        2.93
COTOPAMX                         _
18   Latacuag               128.947            9        I          73 208      36.139       49.36       37.069
t19   La Nam.                20.564           12                   11.675       24.342      208550      12.6U7



No.     PROVINCES       POPULATION    CRITICAL        CIUTICAL       POP.         pop.       % OF POP.   _     F        HMO.    % INDIG.
AND CANTONS                      POVERTY       POVERTY       BELOW          IN         BELOW       PLAN POP.    POP.          POP.
SCORE      CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRITICAL    AND POP.                           IN
POVERTY                   POVERTY       BELOW                  RELTIN
tN MO"      CRITICALA.              TO TOTAL
PLANJ      POVERTY                   POP.
20   Pangue                  17.329            s         I           9.838         3.049        234.28 l.Zt
21   PullII_                54.901            S         1          31.169        24.932         79.99       6.237          -
22   Salcedo                 45.944            5         I          26.004        .              0.00       26.854                    _
23   Sals                    15.551            5         I           8 829        62.973        713.26      54 1U
SUrorTA               283.236           41          6 a      160.603       171.435         106 61     10.632      17.695        10.32
TUNOURANUA
24   Aa2to                   28.176            12       1II        123.866       116.130        93.75        7.736
=     * Aubato 4   ___                                               0        58.942                    58.942   _
* Adato 3                                                          0        57.186                    S7.188
* Santa Ros            11.010                      _           6.251        24.814         296.98      18.563
25   Baflos                  15.464            11        III         8.779        -               0.00       8.779                                          o
26   Cevallos                 5.947            15        IV          3.376         -             0.00        j.376    -
27   "acha                    6.356            15        IV          3.609        ..             0,00        3.609   _
28   Patate                  10.M2             8         II          S.843        .              0.00        5.843
29   Ouer                    15.667             9        1          8.895        14.433         162.27      5.538. _-
30   Peli teo                4t 145             9    _    1         23.359        33.857         144,94     10.498
31   PIllaro                 33.390            9         I          1 18.957      -                         18.97       _
32   Tisaleo                  9.0?6                                  5.153                       0.00        5.153
SU0TOTAL              366.513            88        I1,00     208.088       189.234        90.94       18.854      16.922         8.94
IBOUVAR
33   Guaranda                47.375             7    -              26.896        39.827         148.08      12.931   _      _
^ Simiatug              7.447                                  4.228        20.669        488, 7       16.441        _X
* Guanz6 j           22.5S9              _                  12.796        19.158         149,72      6.362  I            _
34  .Chi.llms                20.4io             5        I          11.587        17.349        149.72       5.762
35   Chidbo                  26.132             8        Ii         14.836        --             0.00        14.836              _s
36   Echeandla                9.056            11     _i1            5.141        1S.588        303.19      10.447
37   San NIg9uel             27.82?            11       II          15.798        54.201        343,08      -38.403



No.   PROVINCES AND    POPULATION    CRITICAL            CRMTICAL      POP.        POP.      % OF POP.       DIF.       INDIa.     % INDIG.
CANTONS                         POVERTY       POVERTY       BELOW      IN MOH       BELOW       PLAN PCP.    POP.          POP.
SCORE      CATEGORY   CRITICAL        PLAN       CRITICAL    '.AD POP.                    IN
POVERTY                 POVERTY       BELOW                  REATION
EN MOo      CRITICAL                 TO TOTAL
PLAN       POVERTY                   POP.
38   Calum                      9.807                                   5.568       ---           0,00       5.568
SUBTOTAL                  170.593           42 _       8.40      96.852     126.965       131,09       30.113     19.061        15,01
CHIBORAZO
39   Rlobasba                 160.433            10        III         91.083     106.096       t16,48      15.813               _
*RIob,oa Sur-E                                                        0     72.537                     72.537
* RiobWna Norte                                                       O 0   33.559                     33.559
40   Alausi                    46.177             6         1          26.216     35 .435       135,16       9.219
41    Cotta                    48.013             4         1          27.259     52.878        193.99       25.619  I
42   Chab                       9.685       _                           5.499       .0 00                     5.499
43   Chuchl                     13.376            7         II          7.593     13.374        176,14        5.781
44   Guanote                   30.426             5                    17.274     30.426 _      17614        13.152              _
4S   Guao                      36.807             7         II         20.897     32.716        156.56       11.819
46   Patlatansa                 9.38?             8         II          5.329       .. .          oa          5.329
47   Penipe                     6.298            11        III          3.576       --- 0_00                  3.576                  __
SUBTOTAL                360.600            58          7.25     204.725     270.925_      132,34       66.200    120.311        44.41
CARA-Ai
48   Azogues                   68.557             7         II         38.922       ---           0.00      38.922      _
49   BiblIan                   22.304             9        II          12.663       ...          o,oe        12.663                     _
50   Cafiar                    60.918             8        11          34.585     42.516        12Z.93       7,931
* Suscal                  4.723                                   2.681     24.053        897,03      21.372        -
51   La Troncal                32.600            12        III         18.508    o,oa        -      0        18.508   _     :_
SUBTOTAL                 189.102           36          9,00     107.360     66.569         62.01       40.791     11.029        16.57
AZUAY               _                                     __              _      _                                                                >c
_    _   _  _  _   _    ._                                _  _     _    _n
52   Cuenca                   332.117            12        III        188.555     131.070       69,51           57   _
* Ttcay                                                              0      48.935       _            48.935      _ _
each60 j                                                            0     46.974                    46.974
|   -    Be llavista                                                           0     35.161                    35.161



No.        PROVINCES        POPULATION        CRITICAL       CRITICAL        POP.          POP.        % OF POP.         DIF.       INDIO.    % INDOG.
AND                            POVERTY        POVERTY         BELOW           IN          BELOW        PLAN POP.   POP.           POP.
CANTONS                             SCORE       CATEGORY    CRITICAL    MOH PLAN            CRITICAL      AND POP.                    IN
POVERTY                      POVERTY        BELOW                  RELATION
IN MOH       CRITICAL                TO TOTAL
PLAN        POVERTY                   POP.
S3-54   GIr6n-S. For.              17.512              5          1            9.942         17.512         176,14         7.570
SS    Gualaceo                  45.350               7         it          25.747         34.990         135,90         9.243   _
56    Nabon                     17.696                                 _   10.047         19.279         19189      _   9.232       -
57    Paute                     3S.190               7         II           19.979        33.478         167.57        13.499
58    Pucar6                                                                    0                                           O 0.
*Ponce Enriquez            6.060                                      3.440         14.211         413.05        10.771
59    S. Isabel-Puc.            27.579               7         II           15.658        23.994         153,24         9.336
60    Sisig                    25.042               6          I           14.217        25.042         176.14         10.825                       _
SUBTOTAL                 506.546             44           6,29      287.584        299.576         104,17        11.992    13.398          4,47
LOJA                                                _  _   _   _   _  _   _      _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _      _   _  _
61    Loa (Sur-Occ)             145.281             12         III          82.481        S5.411          67,18.        27.070   __
62    Calves                    35.118              12         III          19.938                         0,00         19.938           _       _
63    Catavyo                   23.290              15         IV           13.223        56.349         426,16        43.126       =
64-65   Celica-PIndal                                  9         11               0                                           0
66    PuYanro                   37.699                                     21.403         43.911         205,16        22.508
67    chaurpwba                  9.608              10        III           5.500          -                       _ 0,00  5.500
68    Espindola                 17.735               5                    10.069         16.848         167.33         6.779
69    Conzananm                 17.363               5                     9.858         ..               O,00         9.558       =
70-71   Nacarh-Soz.               27.022              11        III          15.341         28.847         188,03        13 506   __  _
72    Paltas                    34.172              6          I           19.401         28.348         146,12         8.947                _  __ _
73    Saraguro                  26.944               S         1           15.297         28.158         184.07        12.861   _                                 F_  D
74    ZapotIllo                 10.176               8                      S.m           ...              000          5.77m                            |QZ
75    Oullanga                   5.144                                      2.920         ...         _    000          2.920                            |D UDun
SUBTOTAL                 389.632             98           7.54      221.208       257.872          116.57        36.664    12.144          4.71            0
ESMtERA   AS                                                                                                                             _                 4S
76    EsmeraIds                172.649              12        III          98.019        115.202         117.S3        17.183
_ Esmralda Nor.                                                           0         71.596                       71.596



No.    PROVINCES AND    POPULATION    CRITICAL              CRITICAL        POP.         POP.        % OF POP.        DIF.       INDIG.    % INDIO.
CANTONS                           POVERTY        POVERTY       BELOW           IN          BELOW        PLAN POP.   POP.          POP.
SCORE       CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN            CIUTICAL    AND POP.                     IN
POVERTY                    POVERTY         BE1.W                 RELA.:N
IN MOH       CRITICAL               TO TOTAL
_________ -_____ .PLAN                                                                  POVERTY                  POP.
* Esmeraldas Sur                                             _  _         0        43.606                      43.606
77    Elt  Alfaro                23.233              9         II           13.190       ...              0.00        13.190
* Borb6n                    4.276                                     2.428        26.134        1076.52       23.706       _
78    Muisna                     22.554              7         II           12.805       16.881         131.83        4.076
79    Cuinind6                   62.606              7         II           35.544       48.711         137,05        13.167
80    San Lorenzo                21.89                                      12.418       18.406         148.23         5.988
SUBTOTAL                  307.190             44          880        174.403      225.334         129.20       50.931    9.629           4,27
MANA01
81    PortovieIo                201.369             13         IV          114.438       134.854        117.84        20.416
* Andrds de Vera                                                          0        62.950                      62.950              _
* San Pablo                           _                                   0        31.496                      31.496                                        o
* Calder6n                                                                0        40.408                      40.408
82    slt Ivar                   37.370              9         tl          21.216         58.535        275.90        37.319
83    Chone                     114.279              9         II          64.830        ---              0.00        64.880
84    El Carmen                  54.442             12         III         30.909        ---              0.00        30.909
85    Flavio Alfaro              23.884                                    13.560        .000                         13.560
86    JijIlana                   80.4!g              9         II          45.685                         0.00        4S.685
87    Junin                       17.875            10         III         10.148         -_0,00                      10.148
88    Wanta                     129.589             14         IV          73.572         75.732        102,94         2.160
____  * Cuba Libre                                                               0         24.493                      24.493
* Jocay                      _                      _       _             0        23.729                      23.729              _____
* San Jos6           _                                                    0        27.510                      27.510   __oQ_               _
89    Rontecristl                37.930                       III          21.534        .._O.00                     21.534   _ -
90    Paian                      41.838              7         It          23.750        33.466         140,9i        9.716                                   o
91    Pichincha                  29.220             11         II          16.589        26.056         157.07        9.467             _                     r_
92    Rocafuerte                 26.517              8         II          15.055        42.548         282.62       27.493             _       _
93    Santa na              _   59.377               9         It          33.710        72.902         216.26       39.192   _



No.   PROVINCES AND   POPULATION    CRITICAL           CRITICAL       POP.         POP.       % OF POP.       DIF.       INDIO.    % INDIO.
CANTONS                        POVERTY       POVERTY       BELOW          IN         BELOW       PLAN POP.    POP.         POP.
SCORE      CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRITICAL    AND POP.                          IN
POVERTY                   POVERTY       BELOW                 RELATION
IN MOH      CRITr AL               TO TOTAL
PLAN       POVERTY                  POP.
94   Sucre                    93.948             9        it         53.338        ...         ,        Go    53.338
* Pedermaes             12.166                       _          6.907        26.935        389,96       20.028
95   Tosagua                  32.077            12        fi1        18.211        28.869        158.52       10.658  _
96    24 de Nao               33.521             8        I1         19.031        ...            0.00        19.031
SUMTOTAL              1.026.066          140          9,33     582.534       499.897        85,81       82.637 0?00
LOS RIOS
97   Babahoyo                106.326            13        IV         60.365        110.761       183.50       50.406              _
*__ abahoyo Nor-E                                                   0        60.613                     60.613
*Bmbahoyo Sur-E                                                     0        50.158                     50.158
98   Babe                     29.349             7        if          16.662       26.414        158.52        9.752                          | _ _
99   Nntalvo                  18.857            11        III         10.706       ...             0,00       10.736   _                                    o
100  Pueblo Vielo             22.367                      I II       12.699        ...            0,00        12.699   _
101  Quevedo                 198.806            14        IV         112.869       71.703        63,60        41.086
102  Urdareto                 23.403           11  _    III          13.287        41.194       310,04       27.907
103  Ventanas                 59.972            10       III         34.048        S2.661       154.67        18.613
104  Vinces                   54.517             8                   30.951        6.940        209,81       33.989
105  Palwenue                 17.247                                  9.792        ...            0 00        9.792
SLBTOIA.               530.844            82         10.2Z5    301.379       367.763       122.03       66.384                   0.00
GUAYAS                                                      _                                                                   _
106  6UaYoMI                1.531.229           12       III         869.333       894.348       102.88      25.015              _    _   _
*Bastldn Popular                                                    0        72.404                     72.404             _                      D
* Juan Nantalvo                                                     0        37.299                     37.299                                 O _i
*aoiasigm Oeste                                                     0        69.230                     69.230       >e
* Rodrigso Borls                                                    0        34.843                     34.843                                 o
* Centro Norte                                                      0        53.498                     53.498   _
4S
* Cristo                                                            0        85.662                     85.662
d'Consuelo
* Febres Cordero                                                    0        78.110                     78.110                _



NO.      PROVINCES       POPULATION       CRITICAL      CRITICAL       POP.        POP.       9 OF POP.        DIf.      INDIG.   % INDIG.
AND                          POVERTY       POVERTY       BELOW          IN          BELOW      PLAN POP.   POP.    POP. IN
CAJITONS                         SCORE       CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRITICAL    AND POP.                     RELATION
POVERTY                   POVERTY    BELOW C.                TO TOTAL
IN PLAN     POVERTY                  POP.
*Nariana JesOs                                                       0       50.343                     50.343
^ El Cigne 2                                _                  _    0        61.340                     61.340
* St  uyaull   _                 _      _                            0       65.141                     65.141
* trlnitarla                                                         0        55.475                    55.475
  uaso Morte                                                        0        69.138                    69.138
_ * Cus   Sur                                                        0        92.732                    92.732
* Guasmo Oeste                                                    _ 0        69.133                     69.133
10?   A. B  ert:o N           14.750                                    8.374       ...             0,00        8.374
108   Balao                   10.704                _                   6.077       ..              0,00        6.077      =
109   Balsar                  44.288              a        II          25.144       51.070         203.11      25.926
110   Col Ines                19.M m__                     _      _   11.228        ---             0,00       11 .228           _
111   Daul_    93.984                             8        I 1        53.358        57.929         108.57       4.571     -                                o
112   Durin                   84.348             15        IV         47.887         ,              0,00       47.887
113   El Eapalma              56.003             11        III        31.795        41.708         131.18       9.913
114   El TrIutfo              24.894             13        IV          14.133       ---             0,00       14 133
115   ihtagro                121.469             13        IV         68.962        ---             0 00       68.962
116   llaranial               37.892             12        if]        21.513        ...             0,00       21.513
117   laranifto               25.536             10        111         14.498       ---             0.00       14.498
118   Patestina               10.948                                   6.216        .61. 0,00                   6.216
119   Pedro Carbo             30.865              7        II          17.523       48.948         279,33      31.425
120   Salinas                 84.732             12       -II          48.105       ---             0,00       48.105
121   Sarborond6n             33.581              9        11          19.065  _    ..  0,00                   19.065      o       _      _
122   Santa Elena             85.545             10        III        48.567        ---             0,00       48.567     t_                           X
123   Santa Lucia             27.359                                   15.533       23.259         149.74       7.726
124   Urbirn Jado             43.851              8        II         24.896        33.107         132.98       8.211                               0
125   yaguwahl                63.755             13        IV         36.196        .0.0Q                      36.196
126   Ptvas                   17.913                                  10.170        ...            0.00        10.170
SUBTOTAL            2.463.423        ERR            ERR       1.398.572     1.150.369       82,25      248.203       96         0,01



INo.   PROVINCES AND    POPULATION           CRITICAL       CRITICAL        POP.         POP.      % OF POP.         DIF.      INDIG.    % INDIG.
CANTONS                           POVERTY        POVERTY         BELOW       IN MOH        BELOW       PLAN POP.    POP.        POP. IN
SCORE        CATEGORY    CRITICAL          PLAN       CRITICAL      AND POP.               RELATION
POVERTY                  POVERTY       BELOW C.                TO TOTAL
.___________  _________          ________                   IN  PLAN     POVERTY                   POP.
EL ORO                                                                                                                                    _
127   Nachala                  159.083              14         IV           90.317     142.297        157,55        51.980
N       achal Norte                                                      0      75.369                      75.369
* Nhchala Sur                                                         _ _  0      66.928                      66.928
128  Arenitlas                  18.845              12        III           10.699      22.405        209,41        11.706
129   Atahualpa                  6.097              12        III            3.461        ...           0.00         3.461
130   Balsas                     4.028                                       2.287                      0.00         2.287
131   ChMa                       2.7h8              _ _ _   _       _        1.566        ...           0.00         1.566
132   El Guabo                  29.564              13         IV           16.722      26.509        158,53         9.787
133   Nuf I[llas                27.310              14         IV           15.505      26.027        167.86        10.522
134  Marcabelil                  4.79a              15         IV            2.724                   _ _00           2.724
135   Pasale                    51.738              13         IV           29.373                                  29.3..
136   Pifias                    21.887              12         III          12.426      35.936         289.20       23.510
137   Portovelo                 10.261              14         IV            5.826         ---          0,00         5.826           ___ _
138   Swnta Rosa                50.967              13         IV           28.936         ---          0,00        28.936
139   Zaruma                    22.954              12         III          13.032      34.245        262,78        21.213                 _
140   Las Loins                  4.893                                       2.778        --- 2772.778_
SUBTOTAL                 415.073             144          13,09      235.652     287.419        121,97        51.767                    0.00
JNAPO
141   Tena                      34.817               9         if           19.767      40.017        202,45    _  20.250
42   Aouarico                   3.190               8         if            1.8tl       7.147        394,63         5.356             _
143   Archidona.                19.449               8         It           11.042         ...          0,00        11.042                                       > _
144   El Chaco                   4.605                                       2.614                      0.00         2.614                                       x
145   Josa Sachas               16.231                                       9.215                      O,00         9.215-w 
146   Oreliano                  19.672               8         1            11.168      35.870        321.17        24.702                                    0
147   Quilos                     4.659              28 11                     .645        ...           0,00         2.645                   r_
SU8TOTAL                 102.623             41           8,20        58.263      83.034.       142,52        24.771    41 .837       50,39



No.     PROVINCES       POPULATION       CRITICAL       CRITCAL       POP.         POP.      % OF POP.       UF.        INDIG.   % INDIG.
AND                          POVERTY       POVERTY       BELOW          IN         BELOW      PLAN POP.   POP.         POP.
CANTONS                         SCORE        CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRITICAL    AND POP.                        IN
POVERTY                   POVERTY       BELOW                RELATION
IN MON      CRITCAL               TO TOTAL
PLAN       POVERTY                 POP.
SUCUMBIOS                                                    _____
148  Lano Agrlo              42.613            10        III         24.193        48.782       2014         24.589
* Nueva Lola           13.089                                   7.431        25.883       348,31       18.452
* L. A. Rural          29.524                                  16.762        22.899        3661         6.137             _
149  Gonzalo Pizarro          4.655                                   2.643        -.             000         2.643
ISO  Putumyo                  4.770             5         I           2.708                         0,0       2.706
151  ShushulIndi             $7.843             6         1          10.130        15.363       15t166        5.233
152   Sucmbtos                2.443             11       III          1.387   _   ...             0 00        1.387
153  Cescales                 5.126                                   2.910        ..               00        2.910      =
SUBTOTAL               77.450             32        8.00       43.971        64.145       145.88       20.174    11.656        18 17
PASTAZA                                                .                                     .                     =             ' _
154  Pastaza                 34.807             13       IV          19.761        30.986       156,80       11.225   _
*Pasta:. Infer.                                                     0        30.986                    30.986      =
155  Here                     5.907            13         IV          3.354  ._     . .           0,00        3.354
SUBTOTAL               40.714             26         13,00     23.115        30.986       134,05        7.871    16.155        52,14
MORONA SAN.
156  Moron                   41.7w              8         II         18.052        ---                       18.052
* Taisha                6.064                                   3.443        14.898       432,74       11.455      =
1S7  Gualaqulza              13.076             9         II         .7.424        16.312       219.73        8.888
158   Limln Indanza          12.795            12        III          7.264          -                        7.264
159  Patora                   7.590            11        III          4.309        ...            0.00        4.309       _-
160  Santiago                 9.201            11        III          5.224        10.475       200.53        5.251                 
161   Sucua                  15.163            11        III          8.609        12.987       150,86        4.378      v
SUSTOTAL               95.685             62         10.33     54.324        54.672       100,6           348    45620        83,U             0
ZAM. CHINCH.    _
162   Zaonra-1acumbI         32.090             11        III        18.219        17.79         97,65          429
164  Chinchipe               12.304             8         II          6.985        10.217       146,26        3.232      =



No.     PROVINCES    POPULATION    CRITICAL         CRITICAL     POP.        POP.      % OF POP.      DIF.      INDIG.   % INDIG.
AND                       POVERTY       POVERTY    BELOW          IN         BELOW      PLAN POP.   POP.       POP.
CANTONS                       SCORE      CATEGORY   CRITICAL   MOH PLAN    CRITICAL    AND POP.                   IN
POVERTY                 POVERTY      BELOW               RELATiON
IN MOH     CRITICAL             TO TOTAL
.__________                  _________                            ________         PLAN     POVERTY                POP.
i165/6  Nangaritza-Yan        22.335                               12.650       27.478      216,70       14.798
tz ez          I__  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
SUETOTAL            66.129                                37.884      55.485       146,4       17.601    7247        13,06
GALAPAGOS
167   San Cristobal         3.585           14        IV         2.035       ...           0,00        2.035
168   Isabets                859            14        IV           488                     0,00         488
169   Santa Cruz            5.305           1S        IV         3.012       ...           0,00        3.012  _
SUBTOTAL             9.749            43        14,33      5.535           0         0,00       5.535                 0.00
ZONAS NO             70.635                               40.102                     0,00      40.102                 0.00
DEIJMfITAAS                                                                   I     _
TOTAL             9.622.608                             5.463.094   5.241.028       95,94      222.066   420885       8.30
REPUBUCA
(') Estudlo de la Confederacl6n de Nawlanaliddeds Indlgonas de to Amzonfa Ecustorlana (COUFENIAE). Septielbre 1990.
I-.:
qJZU
oo0
tD h



- 110 -
ANNEX 5
Page 16 of 24
TABLE 5.2
CATEGORIZATION OF THE POPULATION IN ECUADOR'S CANTONS
ACCORDING TO POVERTY LEVELS
CATEuORIES       POPULATION           % OF           POPULATION       % OF POPULATION
OF           UNDER THE           IOTAL          COVERED BY           COVERED BY
POVERTY       POVERTY LEVEL        COUNTRY          MOH PLAN             MOH PLAN
_ __   .     _ _ __    .       _                _ _ _ _ _POPULA_ON_
l           268,767            2.79             411,631                153.16
II         1,127,122            11.71          1,227,541                108.91
III         3.084,263           32.05           2,836,067                 91.95
IV           820,203            8.52             708,665                 86.40
SUBTOTAL         5,300,355            55.08          5,183,904                 97.80
NOT DEFINED           186,932             1.94             70,016                 37.46
NO POVERTY         4,135,321            42.98                  0                  0.00
TOTAL         9,622,608           100.00          5,253,920                 54.60



TABLE 5.3
H"EALTH CHARACTERUSTICS
OF ECUADR'S CANTONS
PROVINCE ANM        4% PW.   NFANT   MAUTEFrNL          M% MORT.    % ERMTHS         9%         %           9%            %           9
*    CANTON               IN       MORT.       MOAT.        WOMEN        WIO NED.   UNRPT.    SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERtACY    HUMAN
URBAN       RATE        RATE       WIO MED.        PROF.        mm      WATER                                RESOtIL
CENTERS   x 1.000        x 100         CARE                                                                   X 10,foo
______  _______    X  10.000                                                   _ _ _ _
ZAMbORA CHINCHIPE                                                                                  =                         _      .
I ZAUNR                 28?. _       28             0                          3 22,5  7   _      63            19                     29.1
2 CuIKUCIPE              14.         35             3          12.9           90                  53            35                     41.4
3 UANICRITZA            27.1           .
4 VACUAMI                13,1
5 TANTZAZA              26.9   .                                                                                                                              -'
CA*AR                                          .                                                     .                                                         I
1 AZOGES                30.8
2 BIBEIA                16.2 .2_
3 CAIAR                 16 9         39             3          134            786       39        43            28           30        20.6
4 LA TRCCAL             60_5                                              .
EL ORD                   _    _                              _ _
1 NACtALA               90.5         45             1         33.9            24         0        48            30            6        43.4
2 ARENILLAS- 61.3
3 ATAHUILPA             22,1
4 BALSAS                52.6             _
5 CUILLA                42.0                                                                                                                          04_
6 EL OUS                37,4         60             2         37.7            49        23        57            14           11         8,5
hMILLs                 98,4         89             231,9                     26        24         0             0            9         4,7
8 PARCABELLI            97,1                                                                                    . __
9 PASAJE                63.8                __
10 PINAS                 470          10             1         3              40         40        59            43          11         235



PROVINCE AND        % POP.   INFANT   MATERNAL   % MORT.   % BIRTHS               %                                 %           %
CANTON              IN      MORT.       MORT.        WOMEN    WIO MED.  UNIRT.   SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERACY    HUMAN
URBAN      RATE        RATE       W/O MED.    PROF.        IMR      WATER                               RESOUR.
CENTERS   X 1.000       X 100        CARE                                                                X 10.000
X 10.000
11 PRMTOEO               S5.5                                                                                  _
12 SMTA ROSA             6S.0
13 LAm1                  31.7         2             6        48.7          54        82         0            0           13       25.5
14 LAS LOJAS             17.0
MORONA SANTIAIGO_
1 IUO                  21.4        71             3        13,3          76                  48           29                     25,6
2 UALAMIIZA             32,2
3 LINN IINAIZA          20.7 
4 PALOA                 31.6                                                                            _               __
S SIUTIAGO              17 3        49                       48           60                  43            2                     58.9
6 SUCA                  30.4        20             0         26.8         60                  64                  -               24.2
PICHWNCHIA            .                                                          _                              ___
IIIJITO                 75,0        52             1        37,3          16         0        66           50    =                51.2
2 CAYANWlE
3 NEJIA                                                                        _
4 PEDRONONCATO          12.0        103            2        69.1          67         0        78           41           34        12,9
S EUMINAUII_
6 STO DOMINGO           61.0        45             2        32,7          65         6        48           35           13        17.8
GUAYAS                                                                                              _
1 GUATAWIL              97.0        49             1        37.8          11         4        52           36    _      13       46.2
2 A. BAQUERIZO N.
3 BALAO                                                                                                                                         D _
4BALZAR                 39.0        83             4          ,.3         58         0         9            1           31
5 COM INES                                                                                                                                      OD tn
0
6 DALE                  3850 55                    3        49,7          35         0        22            3           28
7 OURS             .S 65                           0        357           31                  57           12                     9t7          h
8 EL ENALE              35,0        55             1        24,2          64         0        62           21           24



PROVINCE AND        % POP.   INFANT   MATERNAL    % MORT.   % BIRTHS                %         %                    _  _
CANTON             IN       MORT.       MORT.         WOMEN       WIO MED.   UNRPT.   SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERACY    HUMAH
URBAN      RATE         RATE       WIO MED.       PROF.        IMR     WATER                                FESOUR.
CENTERS       X         X 100          CARE                                                                  X 10.000
_________._____                  1.000                   X 10.000
9 EL TRIUNFO                                   _                           _      _
10  _ILAGRO                                                                                                                  .
'11 NARANJAL
12 NARANJITO                      =            -__________
13 PALESTINA
14 PEDRO CARBO                      99             0          53.5          71                   0             0                      6.1
15 SALINAS
16 SAMONDON             30          89             6          48,6          51         0         2             0           22         5,6
17 SANTA ELENA          20.0        45             0          27.2          83         30       59            24           15        16,3
18 SANTA LUCIA
19 URIMI JAPO           14.0        61    __    4             36.1          51          I        O             0           26         8,
20 YAWACHI                                                             .                                .
21 PLAYAS                                                                                                                    _
IMBABURlA
I  IBARIA             50.0         50  ___        2          48,5          42        21                       6  I16                25.5
2 ANTONIO ANTE         50.0        65             1          68,6          49         1        83            37           20        25.4
3 COTACACNII   _       18,0        82             1          68,6          so         i        59            38           38_13,3
4 OTAVALO              32.0        83             3          57.3          79         20       U             43           44        22,0
5 PINPIRO              31.0        n              o          47,5          86         12       62            Zs           25        13,6
6 I3Jwi                            95    _                  31,5          n3                                                       15,2
MANA_
1 PORTOVIEJO           67,0        la             1          26.7          41        43        54            32           14        23,1
2  OLIVAR              30.0                                  40.6          44        70       46             22           26        18-5           oo X
3 CNONE                -S.8                                                                                                                        'otn
4 EL CARMEN            410 
5 EIfa  ALFMRO                                                     is
6 JIJIJAPA                                                                              .



PROVINCE AND         % POP.    WNFANT    MATERU L             MORT.    % BIRTHS          9
CANTON              IN       MORT.        MORT.         WOMEN        WIO MED.   UNRPT.    SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERACY                HUMAN
URBAN       RATE         RATE        WIO MED.        PROF.        IMR      WATER                                  RESOUR.
CENTERS   X 1.000         X 100         CARE                                                                       x 10.ooo
X 10.000                                             _
7 JUNN 
8 NANTA                 97,0         25              2          34,5            34         14        53             17           14         24
9 NPTECRISTI            47.0         41              1          37.0            62         27        46             8            24
10 PAJAM                 14.0                                    25f             88         12         a             2           36          10,0
11 PICHINCHA                                                          _
12 ROCAFUERTE            26,1         29              2          3o,'            32         41        49             4            15        12.5
13 SANTA ANA             10 a ..8L                    131                        70         74        54            31           34          7,9
14 SUICRE
15 TOSAGUA_
16 24 DE NATO            13.1         35              3          12.7            81         29         0             0           34          6.2
CHIMBORAZO            _
I RIOBAIiA              510          62              3          62.7            61        21         71            48           25         31.0                  1-*
2ALAUSI                 11.0         so              3          4236            86         35         0             0            53        15.4
3 COLTA                  4,0        6 7                         5030            98         39        48            31            53         12,8
4 CHAKB0                                                                                  _
S CHUJCHI               23.0         58              5          11 3            76         45        56            44             6178
6 CUANOTE                9           26              2          28.1            94         43        50             37           59         15,2
7 GUANO                 15.0       ^                 3          55,0            86         49        78            27            27        10,5
8 PALZ.ATANGA                        42              4          12.8           100                    O              0                       4,7
9 PENIPE                             64_5                       76,4            71                    0              0                      22 2
8UCU M  BIO3S          :__    _                                                         __  _  _   _ _ ___ _ _ _
1 LAGO AGRIO            30,7                                                                                                                             oQ_ _
2 GONZALO                                                                                                                                                   X
PIZARR0O                                                                                                                                             ot
3 PUTUTtATO             15.6                                                                                                                             0
4 SNUSHUFINOI           26.5         S2              3          24.2            73                   57             5                       S,3
S SUCUP!OS              11.6         31              6          249 48___951                                       37__15.1
6 CAWALES          __.                                   _             _             _.         _



PROVINCE AND       % POP.   1IFANT   MATERN^4          % MORT.   % BIRTHS          %                                  %
CANTON            IN       MORT.       MORT.        WOMEN       W/O MED.   UNRPT.   SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERACY    HUMAN
URBAN      RATE        RATE        WIO MED.       PROF.        IMR     WATER                               RESOUR.
CENTERS   X 1.000       X 100         CARE                                                                  X 10.000
X 10.000
SOUVAR                             _                               .
1 GIUANDA           20,6        72             3         45,4           82         la       58            47          33        20,8
_2tILLANES              9,8      _        _       ae         1o's           89        33        44           33           33        16.3
3 CHIhGO             13.6        54             3         45,4           84         26       5f            37 ?        18        12.0
4 EiCUA1IA           38,4        38             0          75.2          88                   0             0                    16,8
S SAN NIGEL          17,8        54             1          38.6          72         13       57            43          19         13,5
6 CALtrA             30.2      -
CARCHI                 30.2                                                                            _
1 TULCMI             525         51             4         62.1           25          0       69            53          10        20.5
2 BOIAJAR            12.8
3 ESPEJO             30.t                            _            _
4 NiA                18.3        36             3          51.6           59        16        68           45           22        13.                   w
5 llTUFAR            40.                                                     __.                                _
TUNGURAGUA
1AI ATO              S4.3        58             1          54.3          32         16       57            47          17        24,3
2 AMS                618 _a_                                        ___
3 CESALLOS           29.3       -
4  H5, is-                                                                    _                                _
5 PATATE             15/4                                                                            _
6 QUERO              10.6        38             O          50,7          51          0       72            39          25
7 PELILEO            14.4        SO             1          86,4          14          0        0             a          24         lo's
8 PILLARO            15.5       -               _                                                     ,              ,, _z
9 TISALEO             8,9       -                                                                               _                                   X
LOS nIOS                            _                                                             _    _   ____
0
I AIBOYO.            47,3        52             1         41.7           27         0        54            27          17        19,6
2  1A"              7.3          57             2          22.7          23          1       48            10          33        10.8            X
3 NONTALVO           37 9



PROVINCE AND       % POP.   UNFANT   MATERNAL    % MORT.    % IIRTHS                 96        96          96            1           S6
CANTON            IN        MORT.       IAORT.        WOMEN       WIO MED.   UNRFPT.    SAFE    SEWERAGE   UTERACY    HUMAN
URBAN       RATE        RATE        W/O MED.       PROF.        am       WATER                                RESOUR.
CENTERS   X 1.000        X 100         CARE                                                                    X 10.000
X 10.000   .
4 PIE0ELOVIEJO        21.6      -
S UEVEEDO            44.2         63             6          4S.8           62          O        42            I8           19         6,6
6    ANIETA          Is.1       --
7 VENITANS           39.9               _ =
a ViUCES             33e          91             2          U,S 2  48,S    52          O        41            26           30         t^O
9 PALEEE              19 2
tI E                 S7.0         ST               1        41.4            63       . 1    .i9 .             42           14
2CuIR1                8.0  4L                    7           17.0          86         53        59            43           2 
3  tAUCEOO            16,0        aS             2          29,2           84         18        60            32           25
4   NMAS N_         __ _ _
5 PAUIE                7.0        I6              1          15,0           83         27       59            37           25        14,2
6 PUCARA
7 SAN FERNANDO_                   29              7          6,5            96      s-                        29    _ _         _0
8 SMTA iSAIEL          7,0        33              1          13,0          8B         45        SO            36           23
9 SIGSIG              14.0        Ss              0         33,9            79        40         0             0           23         2S
ESMERALDAS
1 ESNERkDAS          56.8         76             2         j556            71          0        46            24           14        24,6
2 ELO' ALFARO         15.8        40             2           9,1           88         n36 ..                   4           33         17,0
3 5JISIE              20.8        23              2          10,0          92         64        22 26                                 19,1
4WUININDE            25.7         30             3          40,5           86         26        26            16           23        12.9
SO LORENZO          51,2         90             2          28,1           75         39        37             a           29        20,9
LOJA                                                                                             . _ _                                                    X
I LOJA               66.2         45             1          39.6           42          0        75            46            9        U,,6
Z CALVAS             39.1         33             3          11.2           69         48        49            34           12       ,.8              o
3 CATIUUtO           56.2         31             2          27.1           68         30        68            29           13         08
4 CELICA       -     25.0         18             4          140            92         SS        59            36           16



PROV OICE A ID   |      PoP.    INFANT   MATERNAL    % MORT.               =RTHS                   _ E             E %                   %
CAT"*ON            UN         MCURT.      MORT.         WOMEN        W/O MED.    UNltPT.    SAFE    SEWERANGE    LITEfU4CY    HUldAUN
URBAN       RATE         RATE        WIO MED.        PROF.        PAR      WATEll                               RESOUR.
CENTERS    X 100          X 100         CARE                                                                     X 10,000
X 10,000                                          .
5 CNUAGWitPAM           10 8         52             0          10.7            87                  47              7                      8 8
6 ESPIUOIA               7,7         20 O                       1.9            94         54       65             39           21         13.8
7? 8NZANM                9.7         42             2          10.0            77        26        59             21           17         10.5
8NACARA                 59,7         38             5          32.5            58        36        61             33           11        22.7
9 PALTAS                15.0         29             0           4.0            80        42        42             31           17         9.6
10 PUTANGOz  1860                                    2           8.3            76        50        62            31            17        16,0
11 SARAGOtR              10.5        46              0          14.1            94        44        56             10          31         18,4
12 SOZORAGA              10.0         24             0           0.0            97        22        47              0           15   __ 4,9
13 ZAPOTILLO             14.2         22             0          21,9             0        67         0              0           21        109
1501 GULN
COTOPAXI_                                                     _  _ _  __                                                    _  __  _   _ _  _  _                .
1 LATACUNGA             30.8        76              2          60,6           71         14        60            45           27         20.8
2 LA NANA               37.0         75             2          25,5            73                  57            39           _           9.1
3 PANSU                 54.0          2           7.5          81.0            62        58        44             27         15.3
4 PUJILI                 9.6        109             4          28.9            90        16        55             39           45         8.7
S SALCEDO               16,5                        1          65.1            79        15        59             23           30        14.3
6 SAGUISILI             24.3        107             2         102,5           89         23         0             0           40         21.9
NAPO                   ___                                                       ____
I TENA                  22.8        27              1          14.0           88                   53             1                      35,5
2 *GU1RIC              12.1                                                            _
3 ARCUIDONA             13.1   _                         _
4 EL CUAM.              36.9    _          _
S JOYA DE LOS           15,6
6 GRELLANA              39.7                                   2062 1  2       92       _0                        0                    13.6
7  IUIJOS               171         eo              4          187             71                  64              0                     221



PROVINCE AND      % POP.  INFANT  MATERNAL   % MORT.   % BIRTHS                    %         %          %          %
CANTON           IN      MORT.    MORT.        WOMEN    W/O MED.  UNRPT.   SAFE   SEWERAGE   UTERACY   HUMAN
URBAN     RATE       RATE      WIO MED.    PROF.       IMR    WATER                           RFSOUR.
CENTERS   X 1.000    X 100       CARE                                                         X 10.000
______________                        ~~~~ ~~~X 10.000        _   _                        _ _  _ _
PASTAZA                     X_10___
I PASTAZA           40.6       34           0        24.0         28                78         56                  40,9
2NERA               11.5       27           0        33                                         35                1807
co
I0:



- 119 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
PRIORITY HEALTH CARE INTERVENTIONS
1.     Targeting: The project will support the provision of basic health services to
the country's poorest communities. In the project health service areas, families will
be ranked according to their epidemiological profile, and health care interventions will
be identified to meet the basic health needs of the most vulnerable population
groups, particularly mothers and children. In addition to services provided in
response to patient demand at the health service areas' facilities or during home
visits, health personnel will take advantage of each encounter to provide other
preventive and promotive health care services. For example, if a two-year old child is
brought to a health facility suffering from acute diarrhea, the attending staff will
check his/her vaccination records and whether the child's growth is monitored
regularly. If accompanied by his/her mother, the staff will also check if she regularly
controls her blood pressure, has received a tetanus shot, and has been checked for
cervical cancer. If any of these se vices are needed, the staff will take immediate
action or make arrangements for intervention in the immediate future.
2.     Priority health problems: On the basis of the analysis of the country's health
statistics, the following problems were identified to be of particular concern:
*Low coverage of prenatal care, childbirth care, and postpartum
care;
*Modest coverage of women of childbearing age who use some type of
contraceptive method, with a high proportion using contraceptives known
to be ineffective.
High prevalence of acute child malnutrition (low weigth-for-age),
mostly in children under three years of age.
Limited participation in growth monitoring by children under three
years of age.
Low coverage of children under one year with complete
immunization (3 dosis of DPT, 3 dosis of antipolio vaccine, anti
measles vaccine, and BCG vaccine), as well as of childbearing women
for tetanus.
*High child mortality rates caused by acute diarrheal diseases.



- 120 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
*High child mortality rates caused by acute respiratory infection.
'High prevalence of parasitic infections in children under five
years of age.
High mortality rates due to tuberculosis.
increase in the incidence of malaria in recent years.
*Presence of cholera tending towards endemicity.
High mortality rates due to cervical cancer.
Lack of a program to prevent and control hypertension, the principal
risk factor associated with the largest number of deaths in the country.
3.     Interventions: All norms and procedures to control priority health problems
in the project areas, as well as those related to the provision of other services, were
reviewed and updated during project preparation. The following priority health care
interventions will be supported under the project:
Prenatal, childbirth, and postpartum care: Emphasis will be given to detecting
pregnancy within the first three months of gestation through home visits and the use
of com.nunity health workers. The health team will monitor pregnant women,
according to epidemiological risk criteria, through: (i) home visits; (ii) visits to health
facilities; and
(iii) coordination with midwives working at the community level who will receive
training on the basic norms of infection prevention and the signs of complications
requiring immediate referral to health facilities. The capacity of the health personnel
to handle child deliveries in the project's health facilities will be strengthened.
Postpartum controls will be provided by health teams preferably during house visits.
Family Planning: Counselling services on family planning will be established in all
health subcenters, centers, and first-level hospitals. Married women or sexually
active women who do not use any contraceptive method will be identified through
house and health facility visits. Education on the subject will be provided either
during home visits or counselling sessions at health facilities. Activities will
concentrate on women in reproductive ages, particularly on those with multiple
deliveries and who gave birth more than once in a two-year period. Some
contraceptive methods (condoms, oral contraceptives) will be provided during home
visits following the assessment of the situation by a health worker. All contraceptive
methods will be provided in the health centers and subcenters.



- 121 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
Breastfeeding, nutrition education, and food supplements: Breastfeeding will be
encouraged as the sole food to be provided during the first four to six months of life.
Outreach programs (such as mass communication campaigns, community group
action, and activities of community volunteers) will be launched to educate mothers
on infant feeding and weaning, and on other nutritional needs of the child.
Nutritional supplements and micronutrients will be provided to pregnant and lactating
women and to children under three years of age who are at risk of malnutrition.
Child growth monitoring: Periodic check-ups, especially growth monitoring for
children under 3 years of age and women, will be done routinely as part of the
delivery of integrated primary health care services, and through mother clubs or
volunteers who will monitor growth for a group of children at the community with
the help of a health worker. Mothers will be taught to interpret a growth curve, as
well as to make timely decisions accordingly (i.e., to turn to the health team promptly
when there is any deviation from the expected growth pattern of the child).
Vaccinations: EPI (Immunization Program) standards will be followed for vaccinations
with DPT, BCG, oral antipolio, and antimeasles in children under 5 years of age.
Specific emphasis will be given to infants. Tetanus will be offered to women of
reproductive age. Children and women of childbearing age not vaccinated during
vaccination days will be identified by community health workers during home and
health facilities visits. Immunizations will be given in the health centers and
subcenters, as well as, during home visits in rural areas.
Prevention and control of acute diarrheal diseases: In selected rural areas, basic
sanitation services will be provided. During home visits, with the support of health
workers and community groups, families will be trained on adequate hygiene
practi,es. Additionally, oral rehydration units at the community and health facility
level will be organized. Health workers will be trained on how to treat a child
suffering from acute diarrhea, either at home or at a health center depending on the
degree of severity. The promotion of breastfeeding practices will also contribute to a
decrease in the number acute diarrheal cases. Frequent home visits to families with
children suffering from acute diarrhea and mass communication campaigns on oral
rehydration will also contribute to a reduction acute diarrhea.
Prevention and control of cholera: Preventive and curative activities to contain the
spread of cholera will be initiated in the project areas, and epidemiological
surveillance will be strengthened.
Antiparasitic treatment of children under seven years of age: Every three years
coprologic tests will be conducted in a sample of preschool children within each
health area to study the prevalence of intestinal parasites. Based on test results,



- 122 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
preschoolers may be treated twice a year. Other family members would receive
treatment on request or if parasite infection symptoms are observed.
Prevention and control of acute respiratory Infections in children: Deaths from acute
respiratory infections in children under 5 years of age will be reduced by educating
mothers and other family members to recognize symptoms which require a home visit
from a member of the health team or immediate treatment in a health facility. Health
personnel will be trained to manage children with acute respiratory infections
according to case severity and to treat them either at home or in a health facility.
Prevention and control of hypertension: Early detection will be sought by taking the
blood pressure of all persons over 15 years of age, during home and health facilities
visits regardless of the reason for which the consultation was made. Outpatient care
will be provided in health centers and subcenters. Families with history of
hypertension or people other related epidemiological risk factors will be visited and
controlled more frequently than others. Emphasis will be given to changing risk
related behavior, such as promoting weight control, exercise, diet, and smoking
reduction. In this way, a significant percentage of persons suffering from
hypertension will be controlled in the local health facilities.
Early detection and control of cervical cancer: The goal is to control cervical cancer
in women between 25 and 50 years of age. During home visits, health personnel
will identify women who need cytology examinations. Cytology examinations will be
done at all the subcenters, centers and at first-level hospitals. To this end,
laboratories in the principal urban centers will be strengthened. Biopsies will be done
in the hospitals and the health centers, as well as, in the subcenters, in remote
locations. Both physicians and nurses will undergo intensive training on medical
technologies with regard to cervical cancer, such as cytotechnology and
cytopathology.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis: Prevention and control of tuberculosis will
begin with improving the ability of family members and health personnel to actively
detect respiratory symptoms of the disease. Families found to have symptoms of
tuberculosis or the disease will be visited by a member of the health team. Sputum
samples of those who have symptoms will be taken for examination. Cultivation of
the samples will be done in the health centers and in first-level hospitals, as well as,
in the subcenters in remote areas. The provincial laboratories will have the capacity
to do Lowenstein cultivations and classifications. Treatment for the disease will be
ambulatory in nature and will be provided to all who require it.



- 123 -
ANN\EX 6
Page 5 of 5
Malria control: To increase the effectiveness of malaria-related activities, the
integration of these activities with routine activities in health facilities located in
malaria-prone regions will be supported.



- 125 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
ORGANIZATION AND TYPE OF LOCAL HEALTH SERVICE AREAS
DEFINITION OF A HEALTH SERVICE AREA
1.   Health service areas (HSA) are well-defined geographic regions within which
health care delivery facilities of different levels of complexity would interact with one
another both functionally and administratively for the provision of ambulatory and first
level hospital care to well defined groups of families or population groups at the local
level. The underlying goal of this organizational arrangement is to increase the
coverage and effectiveness not only of each facility, but also of each HSA as a whole,
by making optimum use of existing resources to deal with health problems of their
target population groups and by improving local managerial and administrative
capabilities.
2.   The successful implantation and operation of the HSA depend upon:
(i) providing each facility in the HSA with staff, equipment, and supplies needed to
carry out its assigned functions; (ii) setting up administrative arrangements in the HSA
headquarters, with premises in the highest level facility in the HSA, to ensure the
proper interaction and functioning of the health services throughout the H.SA; and
(iii) establishing training programs to increase the knowledge and skill of staff in the
HSA's facilities. The success of the HSA also depends on the development of
mechanisms through which the internal organization and functions of the MOH at the
central level can be brought into line with the demands of a decentralized system.
CRITERIA FOR ORGANIZING HEALTH SERVICE AREAS
3.   Prior to organizing HSA, it was necessary during project preparation to:
(a) define the capacity needed by the HSA to resolve health problems at the local
level; (b) establish the level of efficiency at which the HSA should operate to better
utilize its resources; (c) undertake an inventory of existing infrastructure, eq'lipment,
and personnel; and (d) analyze the geographic, socio-economic, and health
characteristics of the country's regions. On the basis of the above information, the
following criteria was used to establish HSA: (a) location (urban or rural);
(b) functional level; and (c) existence of specific ethnic groups, particularly indigenous
ones.
4.   Geographical limits for each HSA, total population to be served, number and
type of health facilities, and location of administrative heaaquarters for HSA
management were determined based on technical criteria. This was done with the
active participation of the staff in the Provincial Health Departments and in some
canton-level hospitals. First, it was necessary to differentiate service delivery modules



- 126 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 9
by the location of the HSA: (a) urban HSA correspond to the marginal sectors of large
cities and to the less developed boroughs in medium and small cities; and
(b) rural HSA comprise the main city of the canton, parish, precinct, etc. where
population concentration is more dispersed.
5.   Second, how well HSA functioned was used as a major factor for delimiting
HAS. This was determined by examining: (a) the compatibility of the population size
with the size of the area; (b) the capacity of the area to provide adequate health
service coverage; (c) the size of the territory and availability of transportation; (d)
number of existing health facilities; and (e) management and supervisory capacity, as
well as logistical support in the areas. Another determinant was the proximity of the
areas to economically active centers that determine the flow of neighboring
populations, as well as the direction and frequency of transportation. This was
particularly important in deciding whether to include one or more rural subcenters in an
HSA, even when they are closer to the canton-level hospital of another area.
6.   The use of functional criteria helped reveal important operating differences that
influenced the determination of HSA size. In urban areas the size of the territory and
therefore the availability of transportation did not constitute a problem because of the
high population density and the existing transportation network. Thus, it was decided
that each urban health area could most efficiently provide coverage for persons within
a 9 to 10 block area. To obtain greater efficiency in the service/population ratio,
redundant facilities were eliminated or merged. In the rural areas the population is
much more dispersed. The organization of existing MOH service networks in rural
areas --the canton-level hospital located in the main city, the subcenters and the
scarce health posts located in all canton-level parishes-- were the key elements in
determining the size of rural HSA.
7.   In some cases rural HAS were split into two HAS within the same canton. This
occurred in cases where the HSA was located in areas with intervening topographical
features (rivers, mountains, streams); bad communication networks; scarce and
expensive public transportation; high population density; and a large number of health
facilities. In other cases, part of a rural area (one or several parishes) was assigned to
r-eighboring HAS under the jurisdiction of another canton. The HSA of less extensive
cantons --typically sparsely populated with a reduced number of health units-- were
merged with other neighboring areas for administrative purposes. Then the HSA that
had the highest level of health care facilities and was located closest to the respective
Provincial Health Department was designated as the seat of the HSA. This was done
solely for logistical reasons; patient referral functions within each canton were not
changed because of existing communication and local transportation networks.
8.   Finally, the existence of ethnic and cultural groups, who have their own views
and customs with regard to health and illness, and other local area characteristics
(such as climate, ecology, type of predominant occupation, morbidity, mortality, etc.)
were considered.



- 127 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
TYPES OF HEALTH SERVICE AREAS
9.   Four types of HSA modules were defined following the above criteria. These
are: the rural module; the small urban module; the intermediate urban module; aid the
metropolitan module.
RURAL HEALTH SERVICE AREA MODULE
Coveraqe
Total population covered:          30,000-50,000 inhabitants.
Total number of health units:      5-6 subcenters and 1 canton hospital
with 15-25 beds.
Coverage per subcenter:            3,000-8,000 inhabitants.
Coverage of the canton hospital:   9,000-12,000 persons receiving basic
care; the entire area population
receiving hospital care.
Seat of the Area Management:       Canton hospital.
These general parameters were applicable to the majority of existing canton-
level health service networks. Therefore, the HSA jurisdiction generally corresponds
to the jurisdiction of the respective canton.
Rural Health Subcenters. The rural health subcenters located in the main village
of the parish are outpatient units offering basic services. They are responsible for
delivering comprehensive care to the population living within the parish area (when the
number of inhabitants does not exceed 8,000 and when none of its dispersed
localities has better access to other subcenters). In a typical parish with a population
of 6,000 persons (2,000 in the main village and 4,000 dispersed in small localities),
those persons in the main village of the parish would be served by the health teams in
and outside the subcenter-v. Health assistants (one for every 160 families) would
serve the dispersed population through home visits within a 2 km. radius. In addition,
the subcenter team (doctor-nurse) would serve this population periodically (one or
I/   At present, the coverage of most rural subcenters is limited to the
population clustered in the main village of the parish. One physician (on
one-year rural service) and one auxiliary nurse comprise the staff; only a few
rural subcenters have other professionals available under rural service, such
as dentists, nurses, and obstetricians.



- 128 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
more times a week) through consultations and controls requested by the patient or
from referrals made by health assistants.
Resgonsibilities of the Rural Health Subcenter. The rural health subcenter will
provide the following services:
(a)   Interventions directed at promoting health, disease prevention, and early
detection of pathologies (cervical cancer, hypertension, tuberculosis,
acute diarrheal diseases, etc.);
(b)   Outpatient care of prevailing morbidity, with access to basic
pharmaceuticals end support to basic lab tests;
(c)   Prenatal care, child delivery, and postpartum care;
(d)   Comprehensive growth and developrnent monitoring of children,
including surveillance of cognitive development, improvement of
nutritional status of children under 3 years of age, and pro-vision of food
supplements;
(e)   Family planning services;
(f)   Basic odontological care, especially for pregnant women, and preschool
and school children.
Canton-level Hospitals. These facilities provide outpatient services and
hospitalization for cases of medium complexity. Most canton hospitals have 15 to 25
beds and are located either in smaller urban conglomerates called "cabeceras
cantonales" or in the principal city of the canton. In these facilities are located the
HSA Management Units; therefore, their technical and administrative staff are directly
responsible for carrying out and supporting all the area facilities. They provide basic
care to 9,000-12,000 persons living in the most depressed areas of the urban locality
and follow up care to the rest of. the area inhabitants (between 30,000 and 50,000
persons), who have been referred to them by lower-level health care facilities or on
patient demand.
Health Intervention Resoonsibilities of the Canton Hosgitals. The services
provided by the canton hospitals corresponds directly with the objectives of reducing
infant and maternal mortality, as well as of decreasing premature mortality from
preventable causes; These hospitals also provide the following services:
(a)   Outpatient treatment of general morbidity for both cases of basic and
medium complexity; health promotion and protection; lab tests of
medium complexity; and a public pharmacy;



- 129 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
(b)   Family planning services;
(c)   Hospitalization for acute clinical cases; and
(d)   Twenty-four hour service for normal and complicated deliveries (cesarean
sections); perinatal care; surgical emergencies of medium complexity;
low complexity abdominal surgery and fractures; and medical
emergencies (clinical and psychiatric).
METROPOLITAN HEALTH SERVICE AREA MODULE
Coverage of the Metropolitan HSA. The metropolitan HSA serve the marginal
populations of Quito and Guayaquil (approximately 60-70 thousand persons). To
allow for the best possible service-to-population ratio Quito was divided into 7
metropolitan HSA and Guayaquil into 11 metropolitan HSA.
Total number of health units:      6-7 urban health subcenters and one
metropolitan health center.
Coverage per subcenter:            4,000-9,000 persons.
Coverage per metropolitan          9,000-18,000 persons with
health center:                    basic care, and follow up care
for all the area population.
Seat of the Area Management:       Metropolitan Health Center.
Urban Health Subcenters. These units provide basic outpatient care and are
located in the depressed areas of the cities.
Coverage. These subcenters are responsible for providing comprehensive
health services to the population living within a 30-minute walking distance: between
8 to 9 blocks of level terrain or 5 to 6 blocks of uneven terrain. The volume of people
covered by each urban subcenter varies (4,000 to 9,000 persons) according to the
population density of the territory under its jurisdiction. The urban health subcenters
have less medical responsibilities than the rural subcenters because it is easier for this
population to visit a higher level health facility (i.e., closer proximity and greater
availability of transportation). For this reason, child deliveries or lab tests are not
providqd by the subcenters. The scope of their activities are:
(a)   Activities that promote health, disease prevention, and early detection of
pathologies (such as cervical cancer, acute diarrheal diseases,
hypertension, tuberculosis, etc.);



- 130 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 9
(b)   Outpatient care of prevailing morbidity, with access to basic services,
pharmaceuticals and basic lab support;
(c)   Comprehensive growth monitoring in children, including surveillance of
cognitive development; improvement of nutritional status in children 0-3
years of age; and provision of food supplements;
(d)   Control of normal pregnancies and postpartum care;
(e)   Family planning services; and
(f)   Basic odontological care, especially for pregnant women, preschool and
school children.
Metropolitan Health Centers. These are units of medium complexity that
provide outpatient health care. They will be located in the marginal urban sectors of
Quito and Guayaquil. They are seats of the health service areas management units,
and thus their technical and administrative staff are responsible for all facilities in the
Metropolitan HSA. These centers provide two types of coverage: (a) basic care to
approximately 1 8,000 people living within 10 blocks of the health unit (a 30-minute
walk from the most distant home); and (b) complementary care to all the area
population (between 63,000 and 70,000 persons) through referrals from the urban
subcenters or on patient request.
Health Intervention Responsibilities of the Metrooolitan Health Center
(a)   Health promotion and protection.
(b)   Treat general morbidity, of simple and medium complexity, referred by
the urban subcenters and on demand (by general practitioners and
specialists in internal medicine);
(c)   Treat patients referred by the urban centers and on demand for pediatric
and obstetric-gynecological pathologies of medium complexity, mental
health problems, and physical rehabilitation;
(d)   Offer on a reduced schedule (hours per week) specialized medical care
for ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology, and --ther specialties according
to local morbidity;
(e)   Offer twenty-four hour service for normal deliveries, clinical emergencies
not requiring hospitalization, and surgery not requiring general
anesthesia;
(f)   Offer family planning services;



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
(g)   Perform laboratory tests of medium complexity; and
(h)   Perform imaging diagnosis (X-rays, sonograms)
INTERMEDIATE URBAN HEALTH SERVICE AREA MODULE
Coverage of the Intermediate Urban Health Area. An intermediate urban health
area provides services to persons located in poor neighborhoods, or recent
settlements, of cities with a population between 70,000 and 120,000 inhabitants
(most cities have around 100,000 inhabitants). It is worth noting that HSA near Quito
and Guayaquil with low population density, small settlements, or isolated locations
(hills, mangrove swamps, without ways and means of transportation), were in some
cases combined with intermediate urban health service areas with similar
characteristics.
The general parameters of the intermediate urban health service area are:
Total population covered:          25,000 to 40,000 persons.
Total Number of Health Units:      4 to 6 urban subcenters and one urban
health center.
Subcenter coverage:                3,000 to 6,000 inhabitants depending
on population density.
Health Center coverage:            6,000 and 12,000 persons with basic
care; all the area population with
complementary care.
Seat of the Area Management:       Health center.
Intermediate Urban Health Subcenter and Center. These health subcenters are
sim;lar to those in the metropolitan area, but provide services to fewer persons due to
lower population density. The urban health centers are units of intermediate
complexity. They are generally located in sites that are far away from the city
hospital. They are the seat of health service area management and thus perform
administrative and technical support functions for all units under their jurisdiction. The
population covered with basic care is defined by the same accessibility criteria
(walking distance) as in the metropolitan centers. Through these centers, basic and
follow up care are provided to the entire population in the intermediate urban area
(between 25,000 and 45,000 persons) referred by the subcenters in the jurisdiction or
on patient request.
Health Intervention ResDonsibilities of the Intermediate Urban Health Center.
Like the urban health center, the intermediate urban health center is oriented towards



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
complementing and supporting the basic units (subcenters) under its jurisdiction and
towards rationalizing the demands on the city hospitals (especially, through outpatient
consultation). Since it provides less coverage, both basic and follow up care, than the
metropolitan center, and because in intermediate cities access to hospitals is
generally easier (shorter distances) than in big cities, the medical problems served are
more limited and include:
(a)   Controls, following health protection and promotion norms;
(b)   Treatment of general, simple and medium complexity morbidity, referred
by the subcenters under its jurisdiction and on demand;
(c)   Treatment of psychiatric and obstetric-gynecology pathologies of
intermediate complexity, referred by the subcenters under its jurisdiction
and on demand;
(d)   Family planning;
(e)   Clinical laboratory examinations of intermediate complexity;
(f)   Basic X-rays; and
(g)   Emergencies not requiring general anesthesia, available eight hours a
day.
SMALL URBAN HEALTH SERVICE AREA MODULE
Coverase of the Small Urban Health Area. This is the network of basic care
services formed in cities with a population between 35,000 and 70,000 persons. In
addition, follow up services are opened to the dispersed population of the canton or
province when the main provincial city is small. To serve this urban population, the
HSA is comprised of a hospital and two or three subcenters located in the most
depressed urban areas. In most cases, this small urban network is integrated
functionally with the existing rural service network (canton and parish), forming a
mixed module with units of basic care (subcenters) in the rural parishes and in the
city.
The parameters of the small urban module are:
Total population covered:          15,000 to 25,000 inhabitants (in the
city).
Total number of health units:      2-3 subcenters; one hospital (canton-
level or provincial).



- 133 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 9
Coverage of the subcenters:        3,000 to 6,000 inhabitants.
Coverage of the health center:     6,000 to 12,000 persons with basic
care; all the urban area population with
follow-up care (in addition to the rural
area population when a mixed health
care area).
Seat to the Area Management:       Hospital.
Units of the Small Urban Area. The small urban health subcenter is similar to
the intermediate urban health subcenter, in the same way the hospital is similar to the
canton-level hospital of the rural health area.



- 134 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 1 of 1
COMPOSITION OF
BASIC HEALTH TEAMS
RURAL AREA
INTRAMURAL                       EXTRAMURAL
1 Physician                      1 Physician
1 Nurse Assistant                1 Nurse
5 Community Health Workers
Coverage of 6,COO people
URBAN AREA
INTRAMURAL                       EXTRAMURAL
1-2 Physicians
I Nurse Assistant
1 Phy sician
4 Nurses or
I Nurse and 3 Community Health
Workers
Coverage of 9,000 people



- 135 -
ANNEX 7-2
Page 1 of 1
STAFFINCG PATTERNS
IN RURAL SUBCENTERS ACCORDING
TO POPULATION COVERAGE
POPULATION              NUMBER OF PHYSICIANS    STAFFING NEEDS
COVERED                      (average)                     _
3,000 - 3,599           1 - 1.9                      1 physician
I nurse
I nurse assistant
3 community health workers
3,600 - 4,499           1.2 - 1.49                   1 physician
2 nurses
I nurse assistant
4 community health workers
4,500 - 6,599           1.5 - 2.2                    2 physicians
I nurse
l nurse assistant
5 community health workers
AVERAGE POPULATION COVERED: 6,000 people   2 physicians
(2,000 concentrated and 4,000 dispersed)    1 nurse
1 nurse assistant
5 community health workers
-__  (1 per 160 families)
Source: Ecuadorean Ministry of Health



- 136 -
ANNEX 7-3
Page 1 of I
STAFFING PATTERNS
IN URBAN SUBCENTERS ACCORDING
TO POPULATION COVERAGE
POPULATION            NUMBER OF PHYSICIANS   STAFFING NEEDS
COVERED                      (average)
10,990 - 12,958       3.7 - 4.39                 4 physicians
2 nurses
5 community health workers
9,900 - 10,889        3.4 - 3.69                 4 physicians
2 nurses
4 community health workers
8,011 - 9,989          2.7 - 3.39                3 physicians
2 nurses
4 community health workers
7,021 - 8010          2.4 - 2.69                 2 physicians
2 nurses
3 community health workers
5041 - 7,020           1.7 - 2.39                 2 physicians
1 nurse
3 community health workers
4,051 - 5,040          1.4 - 1.69                 1 physician
2 nurses
3 community health workers
3,061 - 4,050          1 - 1.39                   1 physician
2,072 - 3,060         0.7 - 0.9                   1 nurse
2 community health workers
AVERAGE POPULATION COVERED: 9,000 people   ALTERNATIVE A:
3 physicians
1 dentist
1 nurse
4 community health workers
ALTERNATIVE B:
3 physicians
1 dentist
5 nurses
Sources Ecuadorean Ministry of Health



- 137 -
Annex 7-4
Page 1 of 1
RESPONSBILITIES OF THE HEALTH TEAM BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY
RESPONSIBILITIES
ACTIVITY (*)      PHYSICIAN NURSE          OBSTET.   DENTIST   AUX. NEW
(1)
~TAMURAL
General Morbidity   D          C
Emergencies       ;            C           C           C            C     C
Stomatology       -            -           -           D
Health Promotion   C           C           C           C            C     C
Obstetrics (2)    C            SN          D           -            SN    SN
Health Education    C          D           C           C            C
EXTRA-R
Household Visits   SN          D           SN          SN           SN    C
General Morbidity  D           C           -           -            SN    SN
Health Promotion   SN          D           SN          SN           SN    C
Stomatology       SN           SN          SN          D            -     C
Health Education    C          D           C           C            C     C
IMAURAL
Comm. Relations   C            C           C           C            C     C
Training   (3)    SN           D           SN           SN          SN    C
Health Team Train. C           D           C            C           C     C
Epidem. Surveill.   D          D           C           C            C     C
Administration    D (4)        C           C           C            C     C
Research Projects   D          C           C           C            C     C
(*) According to MOH norms
(1) New personnel to be trained
(2) Obstetrics/gynecological care, level I (mild) and normal
(3) Community Health Workers
(4) Service Director
MATRIX KEY:
D: Direct responsibility, in charge of organizing the activity
C: Shared responsibility, participates in the activity
SN: Depending on the needs and according to existing norms



I 0
x
- I 
PL4
0091                      9E3             TZZ            L8b            6bZ            COT            tOT                                   ONIuIH MAN T7vz0
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----------------------
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__----------------------
OOCT                      081            09t             ObT            OSZ            OOZ            OL                                                       'ItOL
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----------------------
OS                       Os             OLT             OCT                                                                 ZDNIAOUd XS aRIIDfdS JON
OL                        Dt                                                           at                                                                      xvLYZV
Os                                        OE            o0                             0T                                                                        VL'I
OET                                       09                            at             0t                                                                     isvivW
OS                         oz                                          0o                             01                                               OZVWOSNIHD
09                        08             001                           06             09             ot                                                      svxvno
06Z                                       001                           001            09             at                                                VHDNIHOld
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
z DRNIAOdd XS)
:USzA1dZcIu zu O$ tINROSESd
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------__----------------------__----------------------
006Z                       919            T89            LZ9            66t            Coe            bLI                                         SVZSV  DOrZUd
NI UUIno8M VXNNaOSESd !W=o
7WLOJ                      866T           Lf.61          9661           S66T           t66T           866T
al8YSVLZIJ  ONIHIH aN"V LN3WAO'dZaSH 9EV.S
NOUIflLLN 0N' HLIVZH -- I3Orouad JANdO'IaAZU IVIDOS aNOOZS
'IOaVnDS JO DI'1UfndJ



Annex 7-6
- 139 -                                         Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -- HEALTH AND NUTRITION
NEW PERSONNEL TO BE HIRED BY TYPE
TYPE                                         NUMBER    PERCENTAGE
-----------------------------------------------------------_
Doctors                                          250              16%
Nurses                                           320              20%
Community health workers                         550              34%
Obstetricians                                     40               3%
Dentists                                          86               5%
Auxiliary nurses                                 100               6%
Administrators                                    45               3%
Dental hygenists                                 190              12%
Other personnel                                   19               1%
TOT---------------------1600----------------100%------------
T-OTAL                                         1600              100%
------------------------------------------------------------
----------------__------------------------------------------



- 140 -                                    Annex 7-7
Page I of 2
TRAINING PROGRAM FOR NEW AND EXISTING STAFF
1.    The proposed training program under the project is comprised of three components:
basic training; foliow-up and support training; and continuing education.
U     A. Basic Training: The objective of this component is to train health personnel at
the beginning of project implementation on knowledge and skills necessary for the
attainment of the project goals. It involves the following activities:
--motivate existing personnel at the centrl, provincial, and local area levels;
--train new personnel (e.g., community health assistants, dental hygienists,
cytotechnologists, laboratory technicians);
--planning, programming, and management courses;
--pharnaceutical management courses;
--social participation activities;
--information systems and epidemiological surveillance training;
--health and nutrition education.
*    B. Follow-up/Support Training: This component would help meet the educational
needs of health personnel through planned activities that would vary according to
professional and occupational areas, as well as to health care organizational levels.
These educational activities would reinforce attitudes, impart scientific/technical
knowledge, and develop specific skills. It would involves workshops on: planning,
programming, and administration; health care methodologies; epidemiology; and
community participation.
*     C. Continuing Education: This component aims to enhance the scientific
knowledge of professional and non-professional staff in order to improve the quality
of care. It involves the following activities:
--tape recorded conferences;
--clinical discussion sessions;
--internships/tutorships;
--continuing education courses for professionals;
--conferences with intemational guests;



- 141 -                                       Annex 7-7
Page 2 of 2
--financial support to participate in conferences;
--scholarships to study abmad;
--bibliographical software packages;
--support for public health training at the master level at the Central University's
School of Public Health in Quito.
2.    The implementation of the training program would be decentralized. To this end,
Provincial Health Departments's teams, in conjuntion with local health teams, would be in
charge of coordinating:
--discussions with training centers on training plans and methodologies, including the
design and content of courses, workshops, and seminars;
--the evaluation of taining activities for adjusting and/or modifying them as
necessary;
--mobilizir- required personnel needed for developing training activities in the project
areas;
--the evaluation of the impact of the training activities on attitude changes and/or
attainment of goals;
--the evaluation of the perfonnance of training centers.



- 142 -
Annex 7 - 8
Page 1 of 4
Cost Recovery Scheme for Pharmaceuticals
1.  Obtectives:  The primary objective of the pharmaceutical cost recovery in
the project areas would be to supplement Government budgets and other
resources, such as the tax on cigarettes and beer, so that sustainable
supplies of pharmaceuticals can be provided to residents of these areas, which
currently do not receive adequate services. More specifically, the objective
is that at least an average 30 percent of the direct and indirect costs
incurred by MOH in obtaining, distributing, and storing drugs, and in
providing them to patients, be recovered by the project's mid-term review, 3S
percent during the May 1996-December 1998 period, and 40 percent by the end of
the project.
2. Druas: Only generic drugs which are listed in the country's basic drug
list would be purchased and dispensed in the project's health facilities.
3. Pricina: Consistent with existing Government policy, those drug products
included in two of MOH's pharmaceutical programs (MEGRAME --only for children
under 5 years of age-- and High Risk Diseases) would be distributed to user
free-of-charge; remaining products of the country's basic drug list would be
sold under a cost-recovery scheme in which prices for pharmaceuticals would be
set at 100 percent of CIF drug cost plus an average operating cost.
4.  Proposed Methods:  Four methods have been proposed for pilot testing in
project areas: (a) Sliding Scale Method, would apply only to hospitalized and
emergency patients, and all other non-exempt patients would be required to pay
full price. It is assumed that on average 50 percent of costs would be
recovered from those patients on the sliding scale. The sliding scale would
assign patients to a payment category based on income, and the patient pays
the corresponding percentage of full price for drugs, The purpose of the
sliding scale would be to protect patients with a very low income, who may
genuinely are not able to afford to pay the full cost of drugs. To this end,
the ficha familiar (family health card) in each health facility at the local
level would be used to record income data. The sliding scale would have the
following categories: (i) 100 percent pay, relatively high income; (ii) 75
percent pay, medium income; (iii) 50 percent pay, low income; and (iv) 25
percent pay, very low income. (b) Slidina Scale Method, would apply to all
non-exempt patients. Again, it is assumed that 50 percent of costs would be
recovered from sliding scale patients. (c) There is no sliding scale, and
all non-exempt patients would be expected to pay full price.  (d)  There is no
sliding scale. but a 50 percent discount is provided to 50 percent of the
patients who are not eligible for MEGRAME or the High Risk Diseases Program,
based on income status.
5. Phasing of Imolementation: The proposed pharmaceutical cost recovery
scheme would be pilot tested in three local health service areas during the
first year of project implementation to determine the changes that are needed
before extending it to the rest of the project's local health service areas.
6. Manaaement Resoonuibilities: Functions and management responsibilities in
the pilot pharmaceutical cost recovery scheme would be as follows:



- 143 -
Annex 7 - 8
Page 2 of 4
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES IN PHARMACEUTICAL COST RECOVERY
Level                           Function
M.l0. H.Central             1. Review and approve the program
M. 0. H. Central            for cost recovery in pilot areas.
Administration              2. Review and approve the pricing
system.
3. Provide funds necessary to
obtain drugs and supplies from
CEMEIM, and to support operating
expenses in the pilot areas.
4. Complete a contract with
CEMEIM to provide drugs and
medical supplies to pilot areas.
5.. Review and approve the
estimate of needs from the Areas.
6. Supervise pilot project
activities in Provinces and
Areas.
7. Review recommendations to
change the Cuadro Nacional de
Medicamentos Basicos (CNMB), and
make changes as necessary.
CEMEIM                        1. Conduct, as appropriate, local
and international tender
solicitations to obtain contracts
for Project drugs and medical
supplies, based on annual
estimate of requirements.
2. Purchase drugs and supplies on
behalf of Project areas.
3. Implement unified system of
inventory management for
"gratuitos y vendibles".
4. Deliver drugs and supplies to
Areas and individual units in
sealed containers.
5. maintain records and orepare
reports on Project costs and
consumption.
Provincial Level             1. Review the quantification of
needs by the Areas.
2. Supervise pilot project
activities in Areas within the
Province.



- 144 -
Annex 7 - 8
Page 3 of 4
ANAGEMENT RESLONSIBILITIES IN PHARMACEUTICAL COST RECOVERY (Cont.)
Level                             Function
Area              1. Assist health facilities in
Area to develop to estimate needs
for drugs and supplies.
2. Consolidate institutional
plans into area plan.
3. Supervise all pilot project
activities in the Area.
4. Review requests from Area
institutions, and prepare orders
to CEMEIM on behalf of
institutions in Area.
5. Maintain records of orders,
receipts, cost recovery, and
other pilot project activities in
Area.
6. Assure correct delivery of
drugs and supplies to
institutions in the Area.
7. Coordinate requests for           &
changes to CNMB from health
practitioners in Area.
8. Approve requests for drugs not
on the CNMB for specific
patients.
9. Assist in conducting
operations research on pilot
project performance.
Hospitals and              1. Develop estimate of
requirements for drugs and
Health Centers             supplies, incorporating
requirements of lower levels.
2. Manage inventory in accordance
with pilot project procedures.
3. Generate requests for orders
for drugs and supplies, for
review and consolidation at Area.
4. Assure delivery of drugs and
supplies to lower leve.s.
5. Dispense drugs and supplies to
patients.
6. Operate cost recovery program
in accordance with pilot project
procedures.
7. Request changes to CNMB based
on institutional requirements.
8. Cooperate with operations
research.



- 145 _
Annex 7 - S
Page 4 of 4
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES IN PHARMACEUTICAL COST RECOVERY (Cont.)
Level            [              Function
Health                      1. Develop estimate of
requirements for drugs and
Subcenters                  supplies, incorporating
requirements of Boticas.
2. MLanage inventory in accordance
with pilot project procedures.
3. Generate requests for orders
for drugs and supplies, for
review and consolidation at
Hospital or Centro de Salud.
4. Assure delivery of drugs and
supplies to Boticas.
5. Dispense drugs and supplies to
patients.
6. Operate cost recovery program
in accordance with pilot project
procedures.
7. Request changes to CNMB based
on institutional requirements.
8. Cooperate with operations
research.
Community                   1. Develop estimate of
l    Community              requirements for drugs and
Drug Stores                 supplies.
2. Manage inventory in accordance
with pilot project procedures.
3. Generate requests for orders
for drugs and supplies, for
review and consolidation at
Hospital, Centro de Salud, or
Subcentro.
4. Dispense drugs and supplies to
patients.
5. Operate cost recovery program
in accordance with pilot project
procedures.
6. Request changes to CNMB based
on institutional requirements.
7. Cooperate with operations
-research.I



1 44
0
x, <NATIONAL DRUG LIST GENERIC PRODUCTS
K
c: X         CUADRO NACIONAL DE MEDICAMENTOS BASICOS
REVISION 1992                        NIVELES DE COMPLEJZDAD PARA EL HASRJO DB KEDICAMENTOS'
PRIMER NIVEL: Farmacos para unidades donde ae presta atencidn de
salud con personal no m*dico, supervisado por el personal mddico
y odontologico. (PUESTOS DE SALUD)
SEGUNDO NIVEL: Fhrmacos para unidades donde se presta atenci6n
ambulatoria de medicina general y odontolbgica con personal
profesional. (CENTROS Y SUBCENTROS DE SALUD)
TERCER NIVEL: FPrmaaos para unidades donde se presta atencibn
ambulatoria y hospitalizaci6n, por lo menos, en cuatro
especialidades bAsicas. (HOSPITALES CANTONALES Y REGIONALES)
DISTRIBUCION POR GRUPOS FARMOCLINICOS                           CUARTO NIVEL: Farmacos para  anidades donde se presta atenci6n,
ii     ~ambulatoria y hospitalizaci6n con otras especialidades, a mAsn Ge
Y NIVELES DE COMPLEJIDAD                                las cuatro basicas, y para hospitales y servicios especializadoe.
(HOSPITALES DE ESPECIALIDADES)
CAPITULO 1ro.                                        ABREvTaB
CNMB   : Cuadro Nacional de Medicamentos BAsicas
DCI    :  Denominacibn Coann Internacional
(e)    :  Especialidad
(he)   : Hospital de Especialidades
(h)    : Hospital
amp    : Apolla
cap    : Capsulas
fco    :  Frasco
fco.amp:  Frasco-ampolla (vial)
grag   : Grageas
jbe    : Jarabe
sol.iny:  Solucibn inyectable
sol.oft:  Solucibn oftalmica
sup    : Supositorio
susp   :  SuspensiOn
ung.   : Unguento



-147 -                                    Annex 7 - 9
Page 2 of 12
C6diqo    Denoamaamina   COmuDn                Preantacidmn                                    Niveles
Internacional (DCX)                                                                 1 2 3 4
1      8XOTEHMA NERVIOSO CENTRAL I PZRIYERICO
a. AnalgAlcos opiaceos
N12202       Dextropropoxifeno                 Amp. 75 mg/231.                                    XX X
Cap. 65 Mg.                                       X X X
N12204       Fentanllo (h)                     Amp. 0,05 mg/ml. -10ml.                              X X
112206       Horfina (hb                       Amp. 10 mg/lml.                                      x X
N12207       Petidina  (h)                     Amp. 100 mg/1lu.                                     X X
Amp. 50 mg/Lml.                                     X X
N12210       Tramadal                          Amp. 100 mg/2ml. y Amp. 50 mg/lml.                   X X
B. AnalghsLcos no opiaceas
Nl11Ol       Acetil sallcilato de lisina    Amp. 1,8 g/5m1.                                       X X z
N11103       Acida acetil sallcilico           Tab. 100 mg.                                     X X X X
Tab. 500 g.                                     X X x X
N11501       Paracetamol (acetaminof6n)        Gotas 60 mg/0.6 ml.                              X X X X
Jbe. 120 mg/s ml.                               X X X X
Sup. 250 mg.                                    X * X X
Tab. 500 mg.                                    X X X X
C. Anest6sicos generales
121204-1    Droperidol+fentanilo (he)          Fco. Amp - 2.5mg + 0.05mg/ml/10 ml                   X X
121102       Enflurano (he)                    Fco. 240 ml.                                         X X
1121106      Halotano (he)                     Fco. 250 ml.                                         X X
1121206      letamina                          Fco. amp. 10 mg/ml. - 20 ml.                         X X
Fco. amp. S0 mg/ml. - 10 ml.                        S X
121212       Tiopental addico (be)             Fco. amp. I gr.                                      X S
D. Anestesicos locales
N22102       Bupivacaina                       Sal. 0.5 % con epLnefrina al 1:200.000             I X X
fco.amp. 20ml.
C6digo    Denominaci6n comdu                   presentacL6n                                     Lveles
Xnternaceonal (DCX)                                                                 1 234
Sol. 0.5 % sin epinefrima fco. amp.               X X S
20.1.
1122302      LLdocaina                         Jalea 2 % tubas                                      X X
801. 5% Sim epinefrima - 2 ml. (R)                  I X
Sol. al 2 % con Eplnefrina al 1:200.000           1 X X
Sol. al 2% sim epinefrina tfo. 50ml.              X X X
Spray sol.  10 % - Bo0i.                          I X X
N2230S       Tetracaina                        Sol oft. 0.5%                                        X X
B. Ansloliticos
N61104       Bromazepam                        Tab. 1.5 y 3 mg.                                   S x X
N41107       Clobazam                          Tab. 10 mg.                                        XX X
161112       Diasepa                           Amp. 10 ms5ml.                                     X X X
abe. 2 MV/Sal.                                       XX
Tab. 10 Mg.                                        X  X
Tab. 5 mg.                                         xX
P. Antidepresivos
N62201       Amltriptllina                     Fc. Amp. 10 Mg/al. - VMl0. (e)                      X XX
~~mitripti1ina  ~Tab. 10 sq.                                                     
Tab. 25 sq.                                          X X
N6221   Trazodona                 AoMp. 50 mg/5 ml. (a)                                X X
116221w      TrzdOl                            Tab. 2t00 mg.                                        XX
0. Antimaniaca-depreaiVea
N63001       Litlo carbonato Ce)               Tab. 300 Mg.                                           X
B. Antieio6ticos
164502       clorpromazina                     Amp. 25 mg/Sml. (R) y Tab. 25 Dg. Xm



- 148 -
Antex 7    9
Page 3 of 12
c 0dg  Denoilnacl6n Comso                Presentacl6n                                   NLv1les
cntarnacional (DC6                                                                1 2 34
N64105       Haloperidol                       Amp. 5 mg/%at (0)                                   XX
Gotas 0,2 % feo. 1  al.                           X 2X
Tab. 0,5 mg.                                      X SX
Tab. 10 mg.                                         XX
Tab. 2 Mg.                                        X xX
N64509       Plpotiazina (e)                  Amp. 100 59/4M1  y 25 .g/1,1.                      X X X
164518       TioridazIna (a)                  Tab. 200 mg. y 30 mg.                              X X X
T. Hipnosedantes
N61108       Clona"epao                        Tab.  2 mq.                                         XX
N33102       Fenobarbital                      Amp. 120 5g/221.                                    XX
Tab. 100 mq.                                     XX X
Tab. 30 m9.                                       X XX
N61129       Nitrazepam                       Tab. 5 mg.                                        X XX
J. Antivertiginosoas
N34002       Dimenhidrinato                    Tab. 50 sq.                                        X X
K. Antieplldpticos
N31801       Acldo valproieo (sal sbdLca)   8o1. oral 200 sq/ml/taos. de 40ml.                     X X
Tab. 300 mg.                                        XX
Tab. S00 eq.                                        XX
N31102       carbauazepina                     Busp. 20 mg/ml/120ml.                               I X
Tab. 200 mg.                                        xX
N31104       Fenitoina                         Cap. 100 mg.                                      X XX
lao. Amp. 250 my/Sul.                             X X X
naup. 100 mg/m5.1X X X
N31805       Prisidona                         Tab. 250 sq.                                        XX
L. Antiparkinsonianas
N32201       Biperideno                        Amp. 5 sg/al. - 22d1.                               XX
Codlgo    D.nosin:ci6: Co4D1                    resmentaci6n                                 vival"
lnternacLonal (DCZI ,                                                              1 2 3 4
Tab. 2 5g.                                          xZX
N32901-1    Levodopa + inhibidor (0)           Tab. 200 - 250 sg 4 25 - 50 mg.                       X
M. Antimigraia
V72004       Ezrqotamina cospuesta             Orag.                                             X XX
H. KLorrelajantes
N42109      Ortenadrina                        amp  60 mg/2.1.                                   X XX
Tab .100 mg.                                        xx
N42307       Pancuron4o (he)                   Amp. 2 mq/ml. - 2.1.                                 X
N42203       Suxametonio (be)                  lao. 500 Mq/o ml.                                   XS
N42309       Vecuronio the)                    Amp. 4 mi.                                          XX
1X    SISTEMA NERVIOSO VEGETATIVO
A. Adredrqgacos
V33003       Dopamina (h)                      Amp. 200 sg/s ol.                                     X
V33001       Epinetrina                        Amp. 1 mg/mlo.                                    X X X
V31102       Etiniladrianol                    Amp. 10  g9/1 al.                                  X S X
R11213       Xsoprenalina (b)                  Amp. 0,2 mt/Isl.                                      X
D. Betabloqueadores
V42119       Pindolol                          Comp. 10oU.                                       X   
V42120       Prapranolol                       Tab. 40 sg. y 80 q .                              X X 2
C. CalinAdgicas
V11206       Neoatlgina                       Amp. 0,5 mg/&al. y Tab. 15 mg.                      X X



- 149 -
Annex 7 - 9
Page 4 of 12
Codiqo    Denominacidn Comn                   Presentacion                                  Niveles
Xnternaaional (DCi)                                                               1 2 3 4
Vll204      lPridostigmina                    Tab.  60 mg.                                        XX
D. Anticolin6rgicos
V21002       Atropina                         Amp. 1 .lml.                                      X X X
IIt   APARATO CARDIOVASCULAR
A. Antianginosos
C11203       ISosorbida                       Foe. Amp. 1 mg/ml. l001.  b)              -X
Tab. 10 mg.                                      X X X
Tab. 20 g.   1                                   X X X
Tab. subiLnguales 5 a;.                          z x x
Cl1lll       Nifedipino                       Tab. o cap. tO mg.                                 X X
C11207       Trinitrato de qlierol           Preparaciones transcutaneas                         X X
Cl1119       Verapamilo                       AAp. S mg/2ml.                                      X X
Grag. 80  g.                                     X X X
S. Antidisritmicos
C1220i       Amiodarona (e)                   Amp. 150 /3ml.                                        X
Tab. 200 mg.                                       X X
C12114       Quinidina (a)                    Tab. 200 mg.                                         XX
C. Glucosidos Cardiot6nicon
C13104       Digoxina                         Ap. 0 25 .9/1.1                                     XX
Gotas 0,75 mg/m.                                 X X X
Tab. 0,25 ag.                                    x XX
C13106       Lanatosido c                     Amp. 0.4 mg/2ml.                                   X X
D. Antibipertensivos
C22103       Clonidina                        Amp. 0,13 mg/al. y Tab. 0,15 mg.                  X X X
C6digo    Denomin,aci6  Commn                 Presentacion                                  Niveles
Internacional (DCX)                                                               1 2 3 4
C22208      Enalapril                         Tab. 20 mg.                                       X X X
Tab. S mg.                                       x Xx
C22305      Hidralasina                       Amp. 20 mg/Sal.                                     X X
Tab. 50 mg.                                      X X X
C22101      Matildopa                         Tab. 250 mg.                                      XX X
Tab. 500 mg.                                     XX X
C22309      Nitroprusito asdico (b)          Amp. So ag/Sml.                                       I
V41207       Prazosina                        Tab. 1 g.                                           X X
IV    APARATO RESPIRATORIO
A. Antiasmaticos
R11301      Aminofilina                       Amp. 25 mg/Ml.                                    XX X
Tab. 350 mg                                      X XX
021202      Beclometasoan                     Inhalador 10 mg.                                    X X
R12006       Ketotifeno (e)                   .be. 1  g/Sm                                       x X
Tab. lugq.                                          X X
R11222       Salbutamaol                      Amp. 0 ,  mg/ml.                                    X X
Xnbalador 20 mi.                                   X X
Jbe. 2 mq/Sml.                                   X XX
Tab. 4 mg.                                       X X X
D. Antitusiganos
832002      Codeina                           Tab. 10.s.                                        X X X
R32004      Dextrometorfano                   Gotas  1S mg/al. Peo. 20 ml.                      K I X
Jb.  15m g/Sml.                                  I X x
V     APARATO GASTROZNTZSTINAL
A. Aatiulceraso.
D112103      Alqaldrato                       Foo. 300   320 mg/Sml.                              x X



- 150 -
Annex 7 - 9
Page 5 of 12
C8digo    Denominaci6n Comin                   Preaentacin                                     Niveles
internacional (DCX)                                                                 1234
011002       Cimetidina                        Abp. 200 mq/2.1.                                    X X
Tab. 200 mg.                                        X
019005-1    Malgaldrato                        Gel. - Fco. 300 +/- 100 al.                         XXx
B. Antiem4ticos
D5100a       Metoclopramida                    Amp. 10 mg/2ml.                                     XX
Gotas 4mgml. gXmi.
Tab. 10 mg.                                       XXX
D51012       Tietilperazina                    Amp. 6.5 mg/1ml.                                   XXX
C. Antlespasmodicos
V21005       ButLiescopolamina                 Amp. 20 mg.                                        XXX
-utilescopolamiflC Grag. 10 mg.                                                      XXX
V21017       Pramiverina                        Amp. 2,25 mg/2ml.                                 XXX
Tab. 2 mg.                                         XXX
D. Antihemorroidales
C23903-1    Corticoide + anestesico             Pomada                                            XXX
local                             sup.                                               XXX
E. Laxantes
063002       Bisacodilo                         Grag. 5 mg.                                       XXX
Sup. 10.;.                                        XXX
062010       Petrolato compuesto                Emulsi6n Fco.                                     XXX
VI    APARATO RENAL
A. Analg4sLcos urinarios
G21002       Fenazopiridina                     Grag. 200 mg.                                       X Xx
Codigo    DenomLnaci6n Comdn                Presentacl6n                                    Niveles
Internacional (DCI)                                                                 1 2 3 4
B. Antisepticos urinarios
G22007       Nitrofurantoina                    Tab. 100 iq.                                       XXX
C. Diurticoas
031207       Clortalidona                       Tab. l00 mg.                                      XXX
C31303       Espironolactona                    Tab. 100 mg.                                       XXX
Tab. 23 mg.                                       XX X
C31104       Furosemida                         Amp. 20 mg/2M..                                   XX X
Tab. 40 mg.                                       XXX
C31803       Hanitol (h)                        Sol. is - 20 %, fco S00 ml                           X X
vlI  APARATO GENITAL FEBENXNO
A. rnductores de la ovulaci6n
334203       Clomifeno (e)                      Tab. 100 mg.                                           S
Tab. So mg.                                          XX
341002       Gonadotropina cori6nica (e)    Fco. Amp. 5.000 UX.                                      XX
H41002       Gonadotropina renopiusica          Amp. 75 OX.                                          XX
(e) (menotropina)
B. LactoInhibidores
835002       Bromocriptina (a)                  Tab. 2,5 mg.                                         XX
C. Contractores uterinos
G12305       HetilergonavLna                    Amp. 0,2 mg/lml. y orag. 0.125 mg.                XSS
612102       Oxitocina (b)                      Amp. 10 VI/a1.              



-151 -                             Annex 7-9
Page 5 of 12
Cddlgo    Denominaei6n comdn       Presentaoi6n                                  Niveles
Znternacional (0cS)                                                              1234
D. Utero inhibidares
D11209       Fenoterol                        Amp. 0.5 mg/lo ml. y Comp. 2.5 mq.               X I I
C. Hiseelaneos
D64012       Magnesio sultato                 Sol. 20 - 25 % Amp. 10 ml.                          X X
VIII HEDICACION PARA AFECCIONES DE LA PIEL
A. Antilnfeccsasos-antilnflamatorias
P13101-1    Corticoide + antimlirobiano    Crema Tubos                                         x S X
Gotas Oftilmicas                                 X X S
Loci6n Fco.                                      X X X
Ung. Tubos                                       X Xx
P13202-1    Corticoide + antimic6tica         Crema Tuboas                                     x x x
Loci6n Fao.                                      X XX
Ung. Tubos                                       X XX
P13802-1    Corticoide + clioquinol           Crema Tubos                                       X X X
Ungj. Tubos                                      X X X
P12103       Corticoide no fluorado           Creoa Tubos                                       X X X
P12110       Fluocinonida                     Crema 0,5 mg/g. Tuba 15 g                         X X X
Sal. 0,5mg/ml. Fco.15 ml.                        X I x
P11116       Nitrofural                       Sol. al 0,2 % rco. 120 ml.                       X X I
B. Queratoplasticos
P26003       Alqitran de buila               Sol. t6pica, 7,5%                                 XX X
C. Escabicidas
P24002       Benzoato de bencilo              Loci6n al 30% Fco. 120 m1.                     X  X I K
I Codige    Denominaci6n Comun                Presentaci6n                                  Hiveles
Xnternacional (DCI)                                                               1 2 3 4 
IX    MEDICACION HORMONAL
A. Andr6genos
312001       Dana2al (a)                      Cap 200 mg.                                           X
H11106       Enantato de testosterona         Amp. 250 mg/i ml.                                    X X
H11105       Undecanoato de testosterona    Cap. 40 mg.                                           X X
B. Contraceptivos orales
H:9003-1    Estr6geno + progestig-no          Tab. (Dosis)                                      X X S
C. Estr6genos
H33112       Estr6genos conjugados            Crema Vaginal 0.0625%                             X X X
naturales
Tab. 1,25 mg.                                    X X
H33108       Valerato de estradiol            AMp. 10 mg/V  l.                                    X X
Grag. I mg.                                      X S X
D. Glucoaortieoides
321212       Acetato de metilprednisolona   Fco. Amp. 40 mg/1.1. y B0 39/131.                     X X
321203       Betametasona                     Amp. 6mg/m1. - 2 .1.                                I
321205       Dexametasona                     Amp. 4mg/31/2 ml.                                   X X
R21215       Predlsona                       Tab. 5 g.                                         X X X
Tab. 50 mn. (                                      X X
321102       Suceinato s6diceo do             Fco.amp. 100 mg.                                  X  
bidrecortisona
321218       Triameibolona                    Tab. a mg.                                        X Z X
S. Hornonas hipot&lamo - hipofisarias
N43001       inyeetable de vasopresima        Amp. 10 XX./0.5Sm                                     X



- 152 -
Annex 7 - 9
page 7 of 12
C6odio    DOneoimaoida COPar ftenteaiDa                                                    Nivele.
Zatez~~~~~aoleos1 EbdIl ~~~~~~1 2034
P. Antidiabdticas
152202      GlibeTolamide                     Tab. *.;                                           X X
153005       in uline laotma a                rco  Aip:  40 Ut/al. - 10 al                     Z Z X
HS3002       lnaulina mine ariLtalina         toO. Amp. 40 OT/m.I  - 10 ml                     X I X2
0. ProqestAgenas
236102      Caproaeto de                      Amp. 250 Mq/ll.                                    X X
hidtoStptogestorona
136214      Noretisterona                     Tab. 5 sq. y 10 mg.                               ZI
N. Rorrmnae tiaroideas y entitiroideas
172004       Leveigoxina  6dloa Eel           Tab. 01 q.                                          X
1172005      ftapilttluveailo (0)             Tab. 50 ng                                           X
1171003      TiaaolTb. S mg. 
N72007      TISoqlabuline C)                  Tb. Sn      em.g                                    X.
X     VAREEACOS PARA AFteCCTONIS D  LA SANORE
A. Antiagr.gantes plaquatarias
S23002       DipirLdamol                      armq. 75 in.                                       X X
B. Antiandeicas
011001       Acido tollco to)                 Tab.   eq.                                         X X
814009      Rierro (a1 ferrosal              Gates de ads de s0 mg. Fe *leeeotal               I X X
Greg. do :aa de 50  q. To *elemental             SX X
S14005      Hieor:  dextrin                   Amp. 10  q/lal.                                    X X
C0d81o    Oaomi* aim Coamtn                   Prsenetaoioa                                 NHvele,
Interaao.  al (DCer                                                              1 2 34
C. Antioeaqulantes
822002      Raper. (hi                        Tco. Amp. 5.000 01/al/Sml.                         * 
821003      wertarina aodica                  Tab. S eq.                                         XX
D. BaeoetatiLos
B42001      Aoido a*iaacaprolco (he)          Ico. Amp. 250 mg/ml. - 2031. X
a. Sucedane*s del plasma
852001      Albualac hu-ana (11               101. Slny. 20-25 %                                    X
652001      Albumin. huuane (hI               :01. Itny. 20-25 %                                   X
852003      Dextria 40 gol. 10% en            BO1.  ny. FcC. 500 ol.                             XX 
cloruro de sadio at 0.9%
8S2003      Dextriu  40 sol. 41 10% O         saol. ray. rc. soo ml.                               
glucose *1 St
P. Tromboliticas
041002      estreptoquinsaa (hI              tFo. Amp. 250.000 Uo  . 
XI    FaRNACOs PARA TRATAR LA D0IrBNCION POR AUTACOIDES
A. AntihietmninLeas
V71200      Ditembidraaima                    Amp. 50 mg/lml.                                  *  X
cap. so sq.                                      z z .
Jbe  10 uq/1 nl.                                 ' ' '
V71401      T.r:gnadtLa                       Jbe.  30 aq/Sl   rco  120 *1.                    I * z
Tab.oo*. X0 



-153-
Annex 7 - 9
Page 8 of 12
Cddiqo    Denominaei8n eomdn                   Presentaci6n                                   Wivelo
Znternaeionaal  DCI)                                                               1 a234
B. AntiLotlamatorios no estercidales
N11410       Diclefenaeo                       Amp. 75 mgq/3l.                                   X  I
sup. too mg.                                      2xx
Sup. 25 Dg.                                       IXI
Tab. 25 mg.                                       2XX
Tab. S0 mg.                                       III
011303       Indometacina                      Cap. 25 mg.                                       XYI
Sup. 10 zoag.                                     xII
N11427       Neproxeno                         Cap. / Tab. 500 mg.                               S S X
sup. 500 mg.                                      I 1 
XSX   TRASTORNOS HETABOLZCOU
A. Antigotosos
H12001       Alopurinol                        Tab. l00 mg.                                       II2 S
Tab. 300 sq.                                      S  1
Hl1002       colchicina                        Tab. 0.5 mq.                                      SXX
S. Hipolipemiantes
M33002       colestiramica                     Sabres 9g.                                           xx
H31007       cemfibrozilo                      Cap. 300 mg.                                        SX
C. Fluidos y electrolitos
328310L      Aqua destilada para               LMp. 2ml,5ml y 10.m.                              S X X
inyecci6o
Aminoacido. 5-8.5% y              Sl. PCo. 500 al.                                     S
electrolito9 (bh
C6digeo   Denomindia CeomIn                    Presentacion                                   1ivele3
internacional (DCI)
422305       Calcio glucenato                  Sol. 10% Amp. l0 *l.      -                          X X
H23005       Dextrosa al 5                     T so1.  ceo. 1000 31.
Galina, al 0.9%
H22004       Glucosa en aqua                   Sol. liny. 10% Teo. 1000 al.                         I s
ga1. laY. S% Poo. 1.000 al.                       xIx
Sol. ly. 50% Feo. 500 1.                           X 1
H22111       Potasie cloruro, sol. (Z          Amp. I01. y 20M1.                                   XS
meqJml.)                          gol. Oral 11.7%
029001-1    Sales de rehidrataei6n oral    Polvo/dil. en  I It. CluN  3.5 g.-                  a  X S 
Citrato triuodLeo dihidratado 2.9 q. Cix 1.5 g. glucosa 20 g.
g. glucosa 20 9.
M22105       Sodio bicarbonato 7.5%            Amp. 50s1. mX
H22113       Sodio clorure 13.Sme. pa         imp. de 10 ml.                                       XX
- 3.Smeq. Cl/al)
M22113       Sadio clocuro 0.9%                Sol.  C*e. 1.000 ml.                              X
H22204-1    seluci6n buttlar                   imp. 1o ml.                                          XX
H22205-1    solu@idn darrow                    Amp. l1 01. .
H22211-1    Solucidn ringer lactato            Feo. 1000 ml.                                     XXX
KIll  ANtItIFECCIOSOS
a. Antimicrobianoe
A11001       Amlaeiina                         Aap. 500 Mg/2  1.                                  XX
AS5002       iopicilin-                        Caps/Tabs. 250 3g.                                a z X
Cape/Tabs. 500 Dg.                                XIX
Comp. 1 g.                                         xx
ree. Amp. 1.000 mg.                                 R X  I
Teo. amp.  500 mg.                                X R
su.p. 250 mg/S al.                                X SX



- 154-
Annex 7 - 9
Page 9 of 12
|C6diqo    Demoomaoi6a  Conan                 Presentaci6m                                  NIV6l*8
Internacional (DCXI )                                                               2 3 4
A15103       j;neIlyeaT!ijna (b)              FoC. Amp. 10oo.o000 Ur.                             X X
pnicIna 9g crtlstalina)
tCo. Amp. 5 000.000 ur.                            I X
A15104       Densatina bencl peanie.         Fc. Amp. 1'200.000 C1.                            X X X
(penicilina q benzat)
Foo. Amp. 600.000 Ut.                            x s x
A12102       Cefalexina                       Cap. 500 mg                                       X x Y
8usp. 250 ug/Sul.                                X I I
A12105       Cetaplrina                       FoC. Amp. 500 mg. y 1g.                             x X
A12304       Cefotaxima (h)                   Poo. Amp. lg. y 500 mg.                               S
A12305       Cettasidina (b)                  Foo. Amp. 500mg. Y I 9.                               I
A24101       .iprotloxacino                   Tab. 250 mg.                                      I X X
A151:2       rlerit0ol peniciUina             Fco. Amp. 1000.000 U!.                               X %
(penicilina 9 olemisol@
A14101       Clindamicina                     Amp. 600 mg/4ml.                                    X 
A14104       Cloranfeniocl                    Cap. 250 mg.                                      X X X
Cap. 500 mg.                                     X X X
Teoo  amp.  g.                                     X X
Gotas Oft. 0.25 - 0.5%                           X x x
Jbe. 125 mg/Sml.                                 I    X
Ung. oftalmico 1                                x x x
AlS402       Dicloxacilina                    Cap. S00 mg.                                      X X X
Fco. amp. 250 mg.                                  x x
8usp. 62,5 mg/Sml.                               X X X
A14203       Eritromicina                     eotas 100 mg/al.                                  I X 
Busp. 200 mg/Sml.                                X I X
Tab. 250 mg. y 500 mg.                           X X X
AlSlo0       renoximetilpenicilina            8usp. 300.000 UI/fml.                             X X X
Tab  1 - 1 2 millones UX.                        X X x
A11004       Gentamicina                      Amp. 20 mg/2d.                                      S S
Amp. 90 mg/2ml.                                    x x
Crema, tubos 15 g                                S  X
A24103       Norfloxacino                     Tab. 400 mg.                                      X X 
C6digo    Denominacoi6  Comin                 Presentaoidn                                    iveleas
internacional (DCI)                                                               1 2 34 
A25903-1    oulfam4toxazol +                  Amp. ao Mg+400mq/3m1. (b)                           X S
trimetoprima (ootrimoxasol)
8usp. 40 mg4.200.g/Sml.                          X I X
Tab. a0 mg + 400 mg.                             X X X
A13212      Tetracielina                      Cap. 250 mg. y 500 eg.                            S I X
B. Antituberoulosos
122101       EastreptomiLina                  Amp. 1 9.                                         I X 
A22201       Etambutol                        Tab. 400  g.                                      S X X
A22102       Isonlazida                       Tab. 100 mg.                                      X X X
122103       Pirazinamida                     Tab. 500   .                                      X X x
A22104       Ritampileina                     Cap. 300 mg.                                      X X X
Jbe. 100 mg/Sml.                                    X I
C. Attleprosoo
A21003      Clofaximina (e)                   Cap. 100 ig.                                          X
A21004       Dapsona (e)                      Tab. 100 mg                                           X
D. Antivirales
142001      Alielovir                         Crema d4rmica 5% tubo                             X x X
Ice. Amp 250 mg/lOml.                                 x
Vomada Oft. 3%                                    X X
Tab o Cips. 200 a.                               X X X
SXXW   lT!PARABITARIOS
A. Antiamebianoas
a53106      Metronidasol                      too. Amp. 500  qg/l00 ml. ()                           X



-155-
Annex 7 - 9
Page 10 of 12
C6digo    Denominacida Coand                   Proaentac16n                                  3Niveles
Intornacional (DCI)                                                                12     4
Ovulcs 500 m9                                     X XX
Susp. 125 mg/5ml.                                 X  XS
Tab. 250 mg.                                       X xx
53113      Teclozan                           Tab. 100 mq - 500 mg y Susp S0 mg/S ml            X XX
- Too a0 V.
B. Antimalricoas
A52102       Cloroquina                        Amp. 150 mg/3vI. 7 Tab. 250 mg.                   X X S
A52304       Diclorhidrato de quinina          Amp. 300 mg/ml.                                     XX
AS2105       Mefloquina                        Tab. 250 mg.                                        xx
A52105       Primaquina                        Tab. 2SO mg.                                        XX
A52901-1    sulfadoxina4pirimetamina           Tab. 500 m9+25 mg.                                X X X
A52304       Sultato de quinina                Tab. 300 - 650 mg.                                S X X
C. Antimic6ticog
A31001       Amfotericina b (h)                Teo. Amp. 50 ug.                                      X
P11209       Clotrima2ol                       Crema d rmato1ogica I % tubo 20  .                x xx
Crama vaginal 2 t tubo 20 9.                     I X X
Sol. I t feo 30 ml.                              x xx
Tab. vag. 200 mg.                                 X X X
A31004       Qriseofulvina                     Jbo. 125 mg/Sl.                                      X x
Tab. 500 mg.                                      X XX
A32005       Ketoconazol                       Tab. 200 mg.                                       XXI
P11221       Nistatina                         Crema 100.000 UI/g/tubo 309.                      Z x X
8usp. 100.000 ox/ml.                              X X X
Tab. vaginales 100.000 ox.                        X X X
0. Antiparagonimiasicoa
A51302       Bitionol                          Tab. 200 mg.                                        XX
B. Antibelminticos
A51201       Albendazol                        Tab. 200 mg. y 8usp. 20 mg/ml. fco. 20              X X
ml
C4digo    Denominaeidn Coain                   Presentaci6n                                   Niveles
internacional  I'3d)                                                               12 3
ASl209       Embonato de pirantel              Susp. 50 mg/ml. tco. 15 m1.                       x IX 
Tab. 250 mg.                                      I XI
A51207       Hebendazol                        Cap. a tab. 100 mg.                               X X X
Susp. 20 mg/ml. foo. 30 ml.                       x x x
A51104       Nielosamida                       Tab. 500 ag.                                      x  xX
A51210       Piperatina                        Jbe 20 %, Teo. 60 ml.                             S I X
AS1106       Prasicuantel                      Tab. 600 mg.                                          X
F. Antil.ishmanhasieco-antitripanosool6sicos
A53201       Antimoniato de meglumina          Amp. 300 mq/ml. - 5 ml.                             X X
A53305       Nifurtimes                        Tab. 120 mg.                                        xx
0. Antitoxoplasma
A52204       Pirimetamina                      Tab.  25 mg.                                        xx
XV    HEDICANENTOS VARA TRASTORNO8 DE LA NUTRICION
A. Vitaminas y minerales
342201       Acido as@orbico (vit. el          Amp. 500 a9/5 ml.                                 X X X
Gotas, 200 mg/ml.                                 S XZ
Tab. 1 g.                                         x xx
H42404       Calcitriol  (vit. d) to)          Cap. 0,5 Meg                                        xx
112002       Cianocobalamina (vit. b12)        Amp. 1000 Meg.                                       XX
342901-1    Complejo O (camp. min.             Amp.                                               X I
VXT.82-96-812)
Botas                                             x xI
Tab. o  Iraq.                                    *x xx
033004       Henadiona (vit. k)                Amp. 10 .g/1ml.                                   x XX
341201-1    Multivitaminas can o 0in           Cotaa                                             X SX
mineral.s



- 156 _
Annex 7 - 9
Page 11 of 12
0oig    Denomlnacion Comu)n                Peasentaoi6n                                  Ni1voe      |
Intermacional (DC!)                                                              1 2 3 4
Jbe.                                             X X X
Tab, a cap.                                      X X X
M42203      Piridoxina (vit.b6?               Amp. 300 mg.                                        X X
Tab. 100 mg.                                     XX X
M42108       Retinol (vit. a.)                Amp. 300.000 01/ml.                                 X X
Coup. 50.000 U.                                  X X X
cotas 150.000 0.1./ml fco. 7.5 ml.               X X X
N42207      Tiamina (vit. bl)                 Am   100 mg/ml/b  ml.                             X  X
Tapb. 100 mg.                                    x xx
XVi   MEDICAHENTOS PARA U0S  OFTALMICO Y OTORRINOLARfNaOLOGICO
A. Antiglaucoma
011201       Acetazolamida (a)                Tab. 250 m9.                                        X X
Q21001      Azatloprina (e)                   Amp. 100 mg.                                          1
011306       Pilocarpina (e)                  8ol. Oft. al 2% y al 4% 15 ml.                      X S
V42125      Timolol (e)                       Sol. Oftilmica 0.5% - S ml.                         X X
Sol. Ofthlmica al 0.25 % - Sml.                    X X
B. Midri&ticos
014003      Tropicamida (a)                   Sol. Oft. al 1 % / 5 m1.                            X X
C. AntLinflamatorios y/o antiifecciosos
113101-1    Corticoide + antibi6tLco          Colirlo                                           X Xx
Gotas 6ticas                                     XX X
029001-1    Fenazona + benzocaina             Gotas 6ticas                                     X Xx
321214      Prednlaolona                      9ol Oftilmica 1%/10al.                           X X I
A2S100      Sulfacetamina s6dica              Sol. Oftalmica 10-15% / 15.1.                    X X S
A11011      TobramLcina                       aol OftAlica 0.3%/Sal.                             X X
I C6digo    Denominaci6n Comun                 Presentaci6n                                  MLveles
Zaternaclonal (DCX)                                                               1 2 3 4
D. Vaaeconstrietores de uso t6pice
V31104       FenilefrLna                      Sol. Oft. 0.12% /  l5m.                           X x X
022009       Oximetazolina                    Sol  NKasal 00S % / 15 l.                         X X X
022014       Tetrisolina                      Sol: otalmlca al 0,05 %                           I X X
XVIX  ANTINEOPLASICOS E SNMUNOSUPRESORES
Q24201      Azatiopriva (e)                   Tab. 50 mg.                                         X X
Q15202       Uleomicina (a)                   Amp. 15 UV.                                           X
Q11102       Dusulfano (e)                    Tab. 2 mg.                                            X
Q11302      Caloofosfamiea (a)                Amp. 500 mg. y Tab. 50 mg.                            X
Q21003      Cielosporina                      Am. Samg00 mg/ dh )                                   X
sOl Oral 100 mg/ml (a)  ,X
014203      Ci platino (e)                    Amp. 10 mg.                                           X
Q12202      Citarabina-(e)                    Amp. 100 mg.                                          X
Q11303      Clorambucilo (e)                  Tab. 2 mg.                                            X
Q15203       Dactinomicina                    Amp. 0,5 ag.                                          S
Q1S205       Doxorrubiclna (a).               Amp. 10 ag.                                           X
Amp. 50 mg.                                          X
Q15102      Etopo*ldo (e)                     Amp. 100 mg.                                          X
Q12205      Wluoruraoilo (a)                  Amp. 50 ag/ml.                                        X
P11403      Loamustina (e)                    Cap. 40 mg.                                           X
Q12304      Mercaptopurina (a)                Tab. 30 a;..                                          X
Q12103      metotrexato (a)                   Amp. 50  g/2m1.                                       X
T ab. 2,5 ag.                                         X
014301      1.ocarbazLaa (e)                  Cap. 50 a.                                            X
331004      Tamoxiteno   (a)                  Tab. 10 ag. 
015109      Vimbiastima  (a)                  Amp. 10 mg.                                           X



- 157 -                               Arnnex 7 - 9
Page 12 of 12
Cddigo    Dcnominaoi6n comon                   Pr.asetacidn                                   lily |
Internaeional (DCX)                                                                1 2 3 4
Q15107       Vincriatina  (e)                  Amp. lag.                                              I
Amp. 5 mg.                                            I
XVIII ANTIDOTOS
121202       Flumasenilo                       Amp. 0.S mg/mi.                                      X X
121203       Folinato celcico                  Amp. 3 mg/l ml.                                        X
Tab . 5mg.                                            X
N12402       Naloxona                          AmP. O,4 mg/i ml.                                    X X
123005       lenicilamina                      Tab. 250 mg.                                         X X
V11302       Fralidoxima                       Amp. lg/20ml.                                        X X
X21101       Sulfato de protamina              Amp. 50 mg/Sml.                                      X X
XIX   PREPARACIONES IN?UNOLOGICAS
A. Antitoxinas toxoides inmunoglobulinas
Q24201       Antitoxina diftbrica              Amp. 10.000 U1./S ml.                                X X
Q24202       Antitoxina tetanica humane        Amp. 250 UI.                                       X XX
Amp. 500 U1.                                      XX X
Q23106       inmunoglobulina  anti d 1.)    Sol. Iny. 250 mcg/2ml.                                  X X
Q23104       Inmunoglobulina antirr6bia    Fco. 2 ml.                                            XX X
Q23107       Inmunoglobulina humana            Sol. 16 % Amp. 2 ml.                                   X
normal (e)
Sol. 16 % Amp. S ml.                                  X
Q23210       Suero antibotr6pico               Amp. 20 ml.                                          XXx
polivalente
Q24201       Toxoide dift6rico                 Amp.                                               XX I
Q23203-1    Toxoide dift6rico -                Amp.                                               X XX
tetanico + vacuna portusis
Q23202-1    Toxoide 4lft6ri    etimico         Amp. 0.5 ml.                                       XX X
Q23211       Toxoide tetiaLeo adsorbido        Amp. 0.5 ml. (1 dosia)                             S X X
C4digo    Deoominaaoin Comdun                  Prsentaci6n                                     liveleo
Internacional (DCI)                                                                1 2 3 4
S. Vacunas
Q24414       Vacuma antiamarillca             s8l. lXy. (liofilizada)                             X X
Q24403       Vacuna antibepatitia b            Amp. 20 ag/mI - 3 ml.                              X X X
024416       Vacuna antiinfluenza              Amp.                                               X X
Q24406       Vacuna antipoliomielitica         i'000.000 virus I                                   X S X
trivalento tipo sabin
100.000 virus 2                                   X X X
500.000 virus 3                                     X X
Q24416       Vacuna antirr6bica                Sol. lay.                                          X X
Q24408       Vacuna antisarampionosa           Sol. lny.                                          XX X
Q24413       Vacuna antititica                 Amp. 0.5 ml.                                       X X
Q24412       Vacuna antirub-ola                Foe. 1 doeis                                       S X X
Q24409       Vacuna beg                        Liquida Llofilizada                                I X X



- 159 -
Annex 8
Page I of 6
NUTRITION
1.          Nutrition interventions to be financed under the project would be an
integral part of the basic primary health care package to be provided in health
facilities  of  project  areas.    The  integration  of  health  and nutrition
interventions for groups at highest risk is considered to be a cost effective
approach fo. addressing Ecuador's twin problems of poor health and malnutrition
among children and pregnant and lactating mothers. The aim of the nutrition
component would be to improve the overall nutritional status of pre'Tnant and
breast-feeding women, and children under the age of three, by supporting:
(a) nutrition education and promotion; (b) growth monitoring and counselling to
those in. need; and (c) provision of food supplementation and micronutrients
2.          Nutrition Education and Promotion.  The objective of this activity
would be to improve nutritional practices among the general population,
particularly changing behaviors with respect to breast-feeding and infant
feeding, dietary quality, and hygiene. To this end, the project would first
support training for health personnel so that they would becomie effective
disseminators of nutritional messages.  A local professional team previously
trained in lactation management in an international center would be in charge of
this  activity.    Once  trained,  health  workers  would provide  nutritional
counselling as part of routine health care to be offered at local health service
area facilities and at the household level.  The project would finance:  36
workshops for health workers, 24 in the second year of the project and 4 annually
in the remaining years of project implementation; and 72 additional follow-up
workshops to reinforce the first set of workshops, 24 annually beginning in the
second year of project implementation. Second, the project would support the
development of nutrition-related messages and materials, including mass media
campaigns. A professional social marketing firm in consultation with the XOH
advisory group on infant feeding would be in charge of nutrition education
strategy development and implementation; the experience acquired by MOH in
implementing a cholera-related education campaign would be taken into account in
designing the campaign.   Included among the themes of the campaign would be
information on breast-feeding and infant feeding, dietary quality, and hygiene.
To support these two activities, special educational materials would be developed
by MOH for distribution to the general public.
3.          Under this strategy, particular emphasis would be placed on the
dissemination of information on appropriate braast-feeding practices to both
health personnel and the general population. Although breast-feeding practices
in Ecuador are better that in other similar Latin American countries, the general
consensus within MOH is that the practice is declining among women within urban
areas and in the middle- to high-income groups. The two most important studies
on this area are the 1986 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) and the study
supported by Manoff International in 1988. While the DHS study found a high
prevalence of mother breast-feeding at one year of age (about S5* of the
children), the Manoff study, which is based on a national sample of 132 children,
found that less than half of children between 3 and 6 months of age are
exclusively breast-fed. The two main factors which negatively affect breast-
feeding practices in the country are inadequate hospital practices (e.g., lack
of, or inappropriate counseling by health personnel) and the incorporation of
women in work activities outside the household. By law, working mothers in urban
areas have an eight-week post-partum leave of absence followed by a seven month



- 160 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
period at work when they are supposed to have two hours daily tc feed their
child. Htiwever, this last rule is generally not observed.
4.          In order to promote breast-feeding among lactating women, health
personnel would be specially trained during the implementation of the training
activities indicated on para. 2, and the nutrition-related media campaigns
targeted to the general population would include messages on appropriate breast-
feeding practices.   Additionally,  breast-feeding practices of mothers with
children aged one, three, and six months would be monitored as part of regular
nutritional surveillance in local health facilities.
5.          The duration of maternal breast-feeding will also be monitored as
part of routine activities in the health service areas' facilities. To this end,
information on exclusive breast-feeding at one, four, and six months of age of
the child will recorded. In order to be classified as exclusive breast-fed the
child must not have been fed other liquids or solids of any nature (obviously
this criteria will be overlooked in cases of acute dehydration, the only occasion
when the child may receive other liquids while considered to be exclusively
breast-fed).  There is international consensus that exclusive breast-feeding
during the first six months of life has unquestionable health benefits for both
the mother and the child. The proposed monitoring would help identify additional
factors that influence breast-feeding practices in Ecuador, particularly among
the poor.
6.          Growth  Monitoring.    Growth  monitoring,  when  used  to  target
counselling andother support, is one of the key interventions for improving the
health of children. Likewise, monitoring the nutritional status of pregnant and
lactating mothers is an essential intervention for identifying beneficiaries of
food supplementation programs, and reducing infant mortality.   The project,
therefore, would focus on strengthening the capability of MOH personnel for
growth monitorihg and counselli.ng to these target populations. Health personnel
would be trained in this skill during the workshops listed above, and be required
to routinely monitor children and women as part of the delivery of integrated
primary health care services.   The project would finance the procurement of
scales and measuring tapes, as well as the design and production of growth cards
for children and pregnant women. WHO growth monitoring norms would be used to
detect malnutrition among children under 3 years of age (defined by weight gain
or lack thereof), and the Rosso-Mardones norm would be used to identify
malnutrition among pregnant women (i.e., women with weight-for-height under 95%
of standard weight at the beginning of the pregnancy and less than 120W of
standard weight at the end of the pregnancy are classified as underweight or
malnourished).  In addition, the project would ensure that the collection,
analysis and use of nutrition-related information be compatible with the
requirements of the Nutritional Surveillance System (SISVAN), currently being
implemented by CONADE with UNICEF support for nationwide monitoring and
evaluation of nutrition1l status (i.e., two standard deviations of weight-for-age
would be used as the cutoff to define malnutrition).
7.          Relationship between PAAMI and the oroposed Food Supolementation
Schemes. Ecuador has a history of confronting malnutrition through vertical food
supplementation programs. However, these programs, along with the efforts of the
NGOs, cover only 20 percent of the target population. Worse still, most of them
have a limited nutritional impact on the most vulnerable groups because of
deficient administration, the absence of a clear targeting policy, and barriers



- 161 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
to access by the poorest segments of the population. The most important program
has been the mother /child food program (PAAMI) under MOH. This program aims to
reduce infant malnutrition and improve infant feeding practices. At risk groups
are selected based on pregnancy or breastfeeding status of mothers and age of
child (6-23 months).  Malnourished children between 2 and 5 years of age are
evaluated with respect to the third percentile of weight-for-age of the reference
standards recommended by WHO. The products distributed under this program are
leche-avena, a milk, oats and soy flour mixture and rice. There is a monthly
distribution of leche-avena: 2 kg. for children, 3 kg. if malnourished, and 1
kg. for women; and 5 kg. of rice per women. The estimated daily provision of
calories is 237 per child (354 if malnourished) and 1936 per women; protein is
13.7 g. per child (20.5 g. if malnourished) and 50.8 g. per women, during 36:
days per year. The program also includes growth and development monitoring.
nutrition education, immunizations, and ORT. The program's beneficiaries are
infants and children, pregnant and lactating women, and malnourished children
receiving health services in 20 provinces. Because of financial and management
deficiencies, in 1990 PAAMI's coverage was of only 14,888 children, 23,107
malnourished children, and 28,050 women, for a total of 66,045 beneficiaries.
In 1989, the food costs/beneficiary were estimated at US$48 and the overall
costs/beneficiary at US$62.   A modern plant owned by MOH produces the above
mentioned mixture according to the availability of food commodities. The plant,
however, has been operating at an extremely low level of utilization.   The
operation of PAAMI has been hindered by serious logistical problems in the
production and distribution of leche-avena, irregular implementation of program' s
activities, and poor targeting of beneficiaries. With the creation in 1989 of
the National Nutrition Fund (FONNIN), a funl for infant nutrition financed by
earmarked taxes, the MOH has assumed the responsibility for purchasing local
foods, building storage facilities, and acquiring trucks for transportation.
8.          The  project would  support  the establishment  of a pilot  food
supplementation scheme for all children between 6 and 36 months of age and
pregnant and lacta'Cing women residing in project areas.   In supporting this
activity, the overall objective would be tco evaluate the cost-effectivenesq of
food supplementation on health services utilization by the poorer segments of the
population, who are most at risk of malnutrition, in those facilities where food
distribution would take place.   To this end, the project would support the
undertaking of  an  evaluation  study  beginning  the  third year  of project
implementation.   If the pilot experience is successful,  the proposed food
supplementation scheme would continue to operate in projects areas and eventually
would be replicated in the entire country. Under this scheme, each beneficiary
would receive on average 1 kg. of a low cost food product (a mix of powdered milk
and corn meal) per month according to a programmed schedule of visits to local
health facilities (the estimated cost per bereficiary per year is estimated to
be about US$9.f ). During these visits, participants in the food supplementation
scheme would receive other services, such as immunizations, early detection and
treatment of diseases, and health and nutrition education.
9.          In project areas, a targeted food supplementation scheme would be
established to substitute for PAAMI in project areas, with the idea of expanding
it to the rest of the country. Under this targeted scheme food products would
be distributed to those children between the ages of 6 and 36 months and pregnant
and lactating women identified as malnourished through routine growth monitoring
and evaluation activities in health facilities until they overcome the problem.
Once recovered, beneficiaries would graduate from this scheme. it is expected



- 162 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
that this scheme, in project areas, would benefit 20 percent of total pregnant
and lactating mothers, as well as 25 percent of total children six to eleven
months of age and 30 percent of children one to three years of age, representing
approximately 80 percent of pregnant and lactating women, as well as 75 percent
of children 6 to 11 months old, and 70 percent of children one to three years of
age who are already malnourished. The distribution of these products, like those
of the pilot scheme, would take place at local health facilities.  The food
products involved, which would be distributed six times per year, include: (a)
for malnourished pregnant and lactating women, 4 kg. of rice, 2 kg. of beans, 2
kg. of powdered milk and corn meal mix, and 1 liter of oil (the cost per
beneficiary per year is estimated to be about US$33); and (b) for malnourished
children under 3 years of age, 3 kg. of powdered milk and corn meal mix, and 1
liter of oil (the cost per beneficiary per year is estimated to be about
US$18.60). This mix of food products is justified by its balanced contribution
of nutrients. In addition, therapeutic feeding of malnourished infants under 6
months of age would be included in the basic maternal and child care program.
The project would support a study to evaluate the impact of the targeted schem
on the nutritional status of women and children and on health service
utilization, as well as the possibility of adjusting the size and/or changing the
mix of food products included in the packages, starting on the third year of
project implementation.
10.         The existing food production plant could play an inrportant role in
producing inputs for these schemes if its operation performance improves with
measures such as those recommended in the pre-feasibility study prepared by the
Government (see para. 20). A registry would be set up by the MOH's Nutrition
Division in each facility for monitoring program beneficiaries and for stock
control. Effectiveness of the two schemes in achieving their objectives in the
project health areas would be closely monitored and studied consistently with the
methodologies of the evaluation activities described below.
11.         In addition, the project would fund the establishment of a program
for the distribution at local health facilities of micronutrients to pregnant
women and children between the ages of 6 and 36 months. Feasibility studies
would be conducted to determine whether food commodities can be fortified with
the necessary micronutrients and to determine whether alternative food stuffs
should be included in the food supplementation schemes. It is expected that the
studies would be undertaken during the first months of project implementation.
If fortification is deemed infeasible, iron, folic acid and vitamin C tablets
would be distributed under the project. To monitor anemia status in project
areas, the measurement of hematocrit levels in all pregnant women and children
under two years of age would be undertaken as part of regular activities at local
health facilities. The measurement would take place during the first pre-natal
consultation, and it would be repeated before delivery in cases where anemia has
been diagnosed. For children under two years of age, one measurement-would be
undertaken during the second year of life.   The proposed project would not
support goiter-related interventions since MOHIs efforts in this area are already
fully supported by the Government of Belgium, nor vitamin A-related interventions
because vitamin A deficiency is not a widespread problem in Ecuador.
12.         Overall, the procurement of food products and micronutrients would
be done, with the assistance of a procurement agent, through contracts with
private firms.



- 163 -
Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
13.         Issues Related to the Distribution of Food Suonlements in Project
Areas. The quantity of food supplied under the targeted scheme would take into
account the fact that the whole family is nutritionally deficient, and therefore
would be large enough to be consumed by the entire family. However, the powdered
milk and corn meal mix would be assigned for the exclusive consumption of
malnourished  beneficiaries.    To  enhance  the  likelihood  of  this  in  the
beneficiaries' household, it would be emphasized in educational activities with
the mothers and the community. The caloric needs of this population group were
calculated on the basi3 of a program in Chile which had a substantial impact on
birth weight. Under the Chilean program poor women defined as underweight, who
had on average two children per family, wera given half the amount of calories
which the targeted scheme would supply.   Given that the average number of
children per women in rural areas is 5.5, it is expected that twice the Chilean
amount of calories would be sufficient.
14.         The possibility that the food distributed by the targeted scheme
might be sold or exchanged for other goods and not consumed by the beneficiaries
was examined.   According to national authorities, in the 14 years of PAAMI
history this has not been a common occurance. Furthermore, formal evaluations
conducted with international support, as well as informal evaluations carried out
by health teams during home visits, have categorically concluded that distributed
food is mainly corsumed by beneficiaries.
15.         Another possible problem is that beneficiaries of the targeted scheme
may contaminate the foods due to a lack of access to safe water and latrines,
particularly in rural areas. However, this problem would be alleviated by the
inclusion of a basic sanitation and safe water component in the project, as well
as by health and nutrition education campaigns.
16.         As to the possibility that the food delivery by the targeted scheme
would negatively affect breast-feeding practices, it must be noted that none of
the foods distributed to breast-feeding mothers is tolerated by a child under six
months of age. Thus, breast-feeding would not be discouraged.
17.         Evaluation Studies  of the Food Suoplementation Schemes.   The
evaluation of the targeted food supplementation scheme would be undertaken
beginning in the second year of project implementation by which time it should
be smoothly operating. In order to simplify and reduce the costs of the study
it would focus only on pregnant women. The study would compare maternal weight
changes during pregnancy, and birth weigth of the newborns, among beneficiaries
and non-beneficiaries.   To achieve results with significant differences the
cohorts would include 500 women each. Study participants would have similar
characteristics.  For example, they must have a weight/for height that would
classify them as underweight according to the Rosso-M4ardones curve; be in the
same age group; be ron smokers; and not have any of the pregnancy conditions or
complications that could affect fetal growth. Data will be gathered from socio-
economic surveys, as well as from three home surveys during which nutritional-
related information would be collected. The third home visit should take place
around child birth to allow for collection of inforr.tation on weight at birth in
the case of women who did not have an institutional delivery.   Chronic
acceptability of the food products to be distributed under this scheme would also
be assessed during the home visists. Evaluation of the data by computer will
include the use of multivariate analysis to make adjustments for possible



- 164 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
differences between the groups.   The cost of the evaluation study will be
approximately US$141,000.
18.         The project would also support a study to evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of the pilot scheme on health services utilization and its impact
on health and nutritional status of beneficiary groups. This study would start
at the third year of project implementation, in order to allow enough time to
observe possible changes on health services utilization. This study would be
based on data generated by a national LSMS survey to be carried out during
project implementation (see Annex 10-1). The estimated cost for this study is
US $40,000.
19.         Reforms in the Manaaement and Operation of the MOH,s Food Production
Plant. Recently, proposals have been put foward for increasing the involvement
of the private sector in the management and operation o. the MOH's food
production plant. One proposed option is to transform the plant into a mixed
enterprise. Another option is to make the plant a privately owned enterprise.
On the basis of these proposals, during project implementation the Government
would undertake measures to involve the private sector in operating the food
production plant.



Annex 9
- 165 -                   Page 1 of 10
BASIC SANITATION AN SAFE WATER
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
pRINCIPLES GOVERNING THE BASIC SANITATION COMPONENT
The water and sanitation sector in Ecuador has been characterized
by poor organization and implementation capacity coupled with
inadequate financing to meet effective demand in rural areas. In
order to address these problems, the Basic Sanitation and Safe
Water component of the Second Social Development Project proposes
to decentralize many of the key activities to the provincial level
and encourage a high degree of community participation.
Furthermore, the cost-efectiveness and affordability of investment
will be increased by providing low-cost technologies which will
also serve to facilitate community-level operation and maintenance
functions.   Accordingly, the design of this component will be
governed by the following principles:
Decentralized Execution:   The funds for the execution of this
=-omponent will flow from the Project Coordination Unit directly to
the entities at the Provincial level which will be responsible for
implementation (except to the extent a procurement agent is
involved).
ApDlication of Technologies:  Until now, only one technological
model has been applied in Ecuador for rural water supply: various
types of water capture structures (spring captures, bored wells),
a pipe to bring the water to a storage tank, a treatment system, a
distribution network, and individual plot or house connections.
This model, because of its design characteristics, technology,
construction methods, accessories, equipment, and other inputs, has
proven to be too expensive for the majority of rural communities,
in terms of both construction cost per capita and costs of
operation, maintenance, and repairs. In this project, a variety of
technological solutions will be used for water supply and
sanitation.  The selection of the appropriate solution for each
community will be made on the basis of the following criteria:
*    Technical feasibility.
*    Investment  cost  and  the  capacity  of the  users to
contribute at least 30% of this cost.
*    Costs of operation, maintenance, and depreciation, and
the capacity of the users to cover 100% of these costs
through monthly tariffs and/or other contributions.
*   Active participation of the users in the evaluation of
the technological options and in the final selection.
In this component,  a wide variety of options which provide
different levels of service will be applied, in accordance with the



Annex 9
- 166 -                   Page 2 of 10
capacity and willingness to pay of the users.   Details on the
various levels of service and design parameters appear in
Annex 9.1.
Cost Recovery:   For water supply solutions, the users will be
expected to contribute at least 30% of the investment cost in the
form of cash, labor, and/or local materials. Based on preliminary
cost estimations and available data on incomes, this is considered
to be a reasonable figure.  In all the communities in which the
users have a capacity to pay in cash, an effort will be made to
obtain a contribution in this form, in order to uromote a greater
sense of responsibility for the facilities on the part of the
users. The users in coAmunities that elect water supply systems
with plot or house connections will be required to contribute 30%
of the cost of a system with public communal standpipes plus pay,
in cash, the full cost of the house connection with meter (perhaps
spread out in a payment schedule to make it affordable). It will
be necessary to assess whether these payments could be channeled
into the establishment of local rotating funds for future
investments in the expansion of service coverage (this may require
a change in the existing Regulation on Local Committees (Juntas)
for Administration of Water Supply Systems).   For latrines, the
contribution of the users will be a minimum of 50% of the total
cost. In general, the project would finance the slab, the bowl,
tubing, and, where needed, the materials to line the pit(s), while
the user would provide the digging of the pit(s) and the enclosure.
Selection of Communities and Effective Demand: Annex 9.2 presents
the selection criteria for communities which will be included in
the project. Communities will only pre-qualify if they are within
the areas and phasing covered by the Health component and have
populations of between 250 and 2,000 inhabitants. A ranked short
list will then be compiled by applying a series of five criteria.
In order of priority, these are: selecting a representative range
of rural communities; selecting communities by size (in favor of
smaller populations); selecting communities according to their
health priorities; verifying key criteria in the field (including
reasonable access to a suitable water source); and an evaluation of
effective demand for water and sanitation services. The last of
these selection criteria will determine if water and sanitation are
true priorities for the community and, if so, what the affordable
service level is.
Community Participation in the Plannina and Selection of
Technoloaies: Experience in many countries shows that the active
participation of the community in the planning of the project and
in the selection of the technology is necessary to guarantee that
the users take responsibility for the maintenance of the
facilities. The project should be structured to assure that this
early community participation process, with true decision-making
involvement of the community, is carried out.
grganization of the Community:  The existing Law and Regulation
governing   the   community-level   Committees    (Juntas)   for



Annex 9
- 167 -                   Page 3 of 10
Administration of Water Supply systems authorizes IEOS to form and
support Juntas in rural communities.
OReration and Maintenance: One of the highest priorities of this
component will be to improve the various factors which are
necessary to guarantee the sustainability of the services.  The
active participation of the community in the pre-construction phase
has already been mentioned. In addition, emphasis will be given to
the following points:
*    Support to the community organization:  The performance
of the Juntas is currently very deficient. This is due
in large part to inadequate formation and training at the
outset, as well as lack of follow-up support, on the part
of IEOS.   The project will establish new modes and
procedures for assuring the satisfactory performance of
the community administrative organizations.
*    Tariffs:  According to a recent evaluation study of 197
water systems constructed by IEOS (S. Rivadeneira, 1992),
the prevailing tariffs cover a maximum of 20% of the real
costs of operation, maintenance, and depreciation in the
systems that are more than five years old and 60% of
these costs in the systems that are less than five years
old.   This situation is due to various factors:   the
maintenance of a paternalistic relationship between IEOS
and the users; the application of technologies that are
too  expensive;   a  lack  of  effective  prom_ftion,
orientation, and training; and a lack of sustained
follow-up support. One of the biggest challenges facing
the project is the imposition of a tariff regime that
will guarantee 100% coverage of the recurrent costs and
depreciation.    This  can  be  achieved  through  the
utilization of technological solutions compatible witha
the income levels of the users and an effective process
of participatory promotion.
Health Education: The provision of water and sanitation facilities
will be accompanied in all cases by a series of educational
activities directed to the users and designed to assure the
effective use of the facilities and achieve changes in behavior
related to domestic water use and excreta disposal.  The health
education activities will be initiated during the promotion period
before construction and will continue after the facilities are
installed.
Socio-Cultural Variations: The need to take into account socio-
cultural variations among the regions of the country is recognized.
These variations have substantial influence on issues such as
community participation, the organization of the users, forms of
payment and other contributions for services, and modalities of
promotion and education.
Role of Women:  In recognition of the fact that women are usually
the principal beneficiaries of improvements in domestic water



Annex 9
Page 4 of 10
- 168 -
supply services and have a predominant influence on family hygiene,
the project will develop methods to assure the active participation
of women in planning, organization, implementation, operation, and
evaluation of basic sanitation services.
STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS
The basic sanitation component of the project is directed to the
rural population. Although its general goal is to increase the
coverage and improve the quality of rural water and sanitation
services, its main objective is to improve the institutional
capacity for provision of basic sanitation services within the
framework of an integrated concept emphasizing the sustainability
and the effective use of facilities. The implementation program of
this component will follow, to the extent possible, that of the
larger health project.
This component is conceived as a pilot project. The basic strategy
will be to test various implementation models for the provision of
basic sanitation services in six provinces.
The implementation period of the component is divided into two
stages. The first stage, lasting three years, will be devoted to
testing four implementation models. Annex 9.3 presents a summary
of these models. At the end of the first stage, an evaluation will
be carried out of the experience, which will provide a basis for a
reformulation of the decentralized implementation mechanism for the
subsector. The conclusions will be applied to (1) the continuation
of the component within this project for one more year (second
stage) and (2) the preparation of a new rural water and sanitation
project at a large scale which could be financed in part through
another World Bank loan.
The details of the organizational structure and of the
implementation models are presented in section 5 below.
The basic sanitation component consists of nine programs:
1.   Construction of New Water SupRlv Systems
New water supply systems will be constructed for a total of
approximately 138,400 people during the four years of the
component. The following levels of service will be applied:
(a)  Communities of 250 to 1,000 inhabitants:  Improved wells,
handpumps, and simple gravity systems with communal
standpipes.
(b)  Communities of 1,000 to 2,000 inhabitants:   Gravity
systems, wells with submersible pumps, and in some cases
systems abstracting water by pump from surface sources;
all these with distribution networks connected to
communal taps or yard/house connections.



Annex 9
-169-                     Page S of 10
For the estimation of overall investment costs and the preparation
of designs, seven technological options have been established
representing a wide range of levels of service, with construction
costs per capita that vary from US$ 16 to US$ 84 (see Annex 9.4).
Design parameters appropriate for the different levels of service
have been established (Annex 9.1) and prototype designs for each
technological option have been prepared.
2.  Upgrading of Existing Water Systems
According to the previously cited study of water systems
constructed by IEOS, approximately 40% of the systems built in the
previous five years have suffered a serious breakdown in more than
three of their seven components.   This program will finance
upgrading of water systems for an estimated 33,600 persons, at an
average cost of around US$20 per capita. The principal target of
this component will be those systems in which a modest investment
can produce a substantial increase in the quality of service, in
terms of the capture of water from the source, the distribution, or
the quality of the water itself.
All communities wishing to participate in the upgrading program
will have to accept, as a condition of inclusion, the imposition of
a new tariff structure sufficient to cover 100% of the costs of
operation, maintenance, and depreciation. This implies that the
upgrading program will require the same degree of up-front
community promotion and organization as the program for new water
supplies.
Before implementing this program, various prototype designs will be
prepared, with their respective costs.
3.   Latrines
The project will support the construction of latrines for the
families that will participate in program 1 (new water supplies).
It is estimated that about 27,500 latrines will be built, at an
average cost of US$12 per capita (US$60 per family). Prototype
designs and costs have been prepared for VIP (ventilated improved
pit) and manual discharge water seal latrines, with provisions for
different types of soil conditions.
4.   Operation and Maintenance
As indicated previously, the total costs of operation, maintenance,
and replacement of equipment of the water systems will be covered
by the tariffs paid by the users.
The project will finance the establishment of Provincial
Maintenance Centers ("Talleres') in each of the six provinces
covered. Each Center will be provided initially with a stock of
replacement parts for the various types of water supply facilities.
The Centers will sell the parts to the community water committees
on a non-profit basis.   The Centers will also provide repair



Annex 9
Page 6 of 10
- 170 -
services for major problems on a cost recovery basis.   Cost
estimation for this program is based on the initial provision to
each center of a stock of parts equal to one year of depreciation
of the capital invested by the project (assuming that the useful
life of water and sanitation facilities 8s 20 years on average),
plus about $12,000 to build the structure for each Center.  The
Centers will be managed by contractors and will be subject to
annual evaluations and audits.
The community water committees will receive intensive training and
technical assistance during the promotion and construction phases.
Each committee will have an internal regulation approved by the
users. Before the start of implementation, a plan will be devised
for establishing in each committee the capacity for managing
routine maintenance and repairs. This plan will be carried out by
the provincial promotion, technical support, and trainina teams.
Each community water committee will have to sign an agreement with
the provincial executing agency committing itself to fixing and
maintaining adequate tariffs.   The financial management of the
committees will be monitored by a special team within the
provincial executing agency. The committees will receive sustained
technical assistance in all aspects of financial management and
maintenance.
5.   Coordination and Execution
Because there has been very limited experience in Ecuador with
alternative organizational schemes for providing rural water and
sanitation services, a variety of decentralized, provincial-level
institutional arrangements wil. be tested during the first stage of
implementation (three years) of the component.  This gives the
component  its character as a pilot project.    Implementation
activities will be assigned to various gov.inmental, non-
governmental, regional, or community organizations.   The chart
attached as Annex 9.3 summarizes the distribution of functions
within each of the four proposed models. These range from a high
level of involvement and responsibility for the Provincial
Directorates of IEOS to a diminishment of their conventional role
in favor of the Provincial Council, NGOs, and the community. On
completion of the pilot period, the application of the four models
will be rigorously evaluated and a synthesis of the experience will
be formulated for future implementation. The new "model" would be
used in the remaining year of this component and would serve as the
basis for preparing a new rural water and sanitation project on a
large scale.
In Model 1, the staff of the IEOS Provincial Directorate directly
executes the majority of the tasks, except studies, construction,
and auditing, which are contracted out to private enterprise. This
model will be applied in the provinces of Azuay and Pichincha. In
Model 2, the Provincial Directorate of IEOS coordinates but does
not execute directly.   Most tasks are subcontracted to NGOs,
private enterprise, and other local entities.   Model 2 will be
applied in the province of Loja. Model 3 is similar to Model 2,



Annex 9
- 171-                    Page 7 of 10
with the difference that a global subcontract is made with an NGO
for the implementation of an integrated program. This model will
be tested in Chimborazo. In Model 4, the responsible entity is the
Provincial Council or another regional governmental entity; !EOS
provides technical assistance; execution of specific tasks is
through subcontracts. Model 4 will be applied in the province of
Manabi, with the Centro de Rehabilitaci6n de Manabi as the
implementing agency, and in Guayas, where the Provincial Health
Directorate will take this role.
Annex 9.5 presents the coordination and execution arrangements for
the basic sanitation component.
The component will be headed by a Coordinator who will be part of
the  Project  Coordinating  Unit  of  the  Health  Project.    The
Coordinator of Basic Sanitation will be supported by the
administrative personnel of the Coordination Unit. The Coordinator
will be able to contract a purchasing agent for procurement of
equipment cr services as well as consultants for project works and
supervision or support in coordination at the local level.
Parallel to the above, an institutional study of the entire rural
water and sanitation sector will be carried out, focusing on IEOS.
This will prepare specific recommendations to the government
oriented to significantly transforming public sector management in
this subsector, away from direct implementation and toward
efficient and effective coordination, supervision, facilitation,
and accountability.
Contracting in the basic sanitation component will be effected
directly at the provincial level, except for multi-provincial or
large-scale activities above the threshold for use of comparison of
price quotations by a procurement method, which will be handled by
the Project Coordinating Unit with the assistance of a procurement
agent.   Disbursements will be made directly by the PCU to the
responsible entities at the provincial level (except to the extent
a procurement agent is involved). It will be necessary to prepare
manuals for financial administration and contracting for this
component, consistent with procedures established for the Health
Project as a whole.
An Advisory Committee for Basic Sanitation will be established,
composed of officials of IEOS, representatives of the Ministries of
Health, Social Welfare, and Government, and a representative of
CONADE.   This Committee will meet periodically to review the
results   of   the   component's   implementation   and   provide
recommendations on the utilization of the expexience for the
development of new policies, strategies, and institutional
arrangements.
The Coordinator of Basic Sanitation will be supported by a
technical assistance team composed of international and national
professionals.



Annex 9
Page 8 of 10
- 172 -
6.   Technical Assistance and Training
The technical assistance program will be composed of a long-term
resident senior adviser in basic sanitation for an initial period
of  three  years   (with  the  possibility  of  continuation);
international experts with short or medium term assignments; and
national consultants.  The technical assistance team will work at
the central and provincial levels, in accordance with a work plan
to be developed at the start of the project.   The experts and
consultants will provide support in the development of policies,
strategies, operating procedures, and materials in the areas of
institutional strengthening, design standards, technologies,
community promotion, health education, community organization,
operation and maintenance, and sustainability of services.  The
estimated budget for the technical assistance program is US$1.45
million during four years.
The training program will have the following objectives:
(a)  Provide initial training for the staff of the provincial
executing agencies in all aspects of the component.
Special emphasis will be given to training field staff in
the utilization of participatory methods of promotion,
organization,   health   education,   monitoring,   and
evaluation.
(b)  Carry out various types of continuous training, according
to a training plan which will be developed at the start
of the project. This plan will include the utilization
of specialized organizations in the country for both
formal    and    on-the-job    training    ("horizontal
cooperation"),  the  implementation  of  courses  and
workshops, and the attendance by national personnel at
courses and conferences abroad.
It is estimated that the total cost of the training program will be
US$720,000 over the five years of the component.
7.   Studies
Three studies will be carried out, all initiated at the start of
the project and completed within a six-month period:
Institutional Restructuring of the Rural Water and Sanitation
Subsector: The objective of this study is to present, to the
new government that will take office in the latter part of
1992, recommendations on transforming the public sector's role
and performance in the subsector. The study will focus on an
institutional restructuring scheme oriented to taking the
public sector out of most direct implementation and
strengthening   its  role   in  efficient   and   effective
coordination, supervision, and facilitation of the provision
of services. The study will be initiated at the beginning of
the project and will be carried out in six months. It will
use not only technical analysis methods, but also a highly



Annex 9
- 173 -                   Page 9 of 10
participatory process of consultation with various groups
involved in the subsector (seminars, workshops, etc.).  It
will be a condition of the project contract that this study be
executed, that the government take its results into account
and that the government take appropriate actions to implement
its recommendations.  (Maximum estimated budget $100,000).
National Inventory of Basic Sanitation:  The project will
finance the preparation of a national inventory of rural
communities and basic sanitation services in the six provinces
covered in the component.  The objective will be to obtain a
complete data base on rural sanitation services, covering
types of facilities, number of persons served, state of the
facilities, quality of services, functioning of the Juntas,
etc.  It is understood that USAID and KfW will finance the
inventory in the other provinces. It will be necessary for
the government to coordinate among IEOS, USAID, and KfW to fix
the terms of reference, the financing plan, and management
plan of the inventory. It is foreseen that the inventory can
be completed during the first year of the project, so as to
permit the results to be used to assist in work planning for
the basic sanitation component. (Estimated budget $350,000).
Cost Recovery from Users:  This consists of (1) a general
study,   based  on  a  survey,   of   income   levels   and
capacity/willingness to pay on the part of rural inhabitants
for water and sanitation services and (2) the preparation of
a simple methodology to be used by promoters in the field for
evaluating willingness/ capacity to pay at the community
level. (Maximum estimated budget $100,000).
8.   Ecuiiment and Materials
For the execution of this component it will be necessary to acquire
the following equipment: two four-wheel drive vehicles for each
province (total of 12, $312,000); six motorcycles for each province
(total of 36, $94,000); one computer with printer for each province
plus one for the central  office  (total  of  seven,  .14,000);
additional office equipment, e.g. photocopy machines, teAephones,
etc. ($10,000 per province); and minor technical equipment (total
of $20,000). The estimated total is $500,000.
9.   Monitoring and Evaluation
A series of quantifiable milestones will be built into the
project's work plan.  These will enable frequent and meaningful
assessments to be conducted of the progress of the component.
Since this experience will serve as a model for other rural
projects and for scaling up, it is considered essential that good
records be kept, both at the provincial and central levels.
Computers will be supplied to each implementation unit in order to
facilitate  information storage and analysis.   These will  be
equipped with data bases capable of tracking project statistics
including demographic, health, and education data for each
community. The technical assistance team will use these data to



Annex 9
-174-                   Page 10 of 10
synthesize and distill the lessons learned from each province.
Based on this analysis the team will also disseminate successful
approaches and develop a preferred strategy for general application
in the second stage of the project. A mid-term review will also be
carried out to evaluate the success of the various alternatives and
determine the procedures under which the activities will continue.
COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROJECTS
It will be necessary to develop a coordination and collaboration
plan with the WASHED project of USAID.   This project has been
working to strengthen the capacity of IEOS in rural basic
sanitation since mid 1990, and it still has at least two years of
execution left. WASHED, working in eight provinces, has tried to
improve Model 1 within the typology described above. The new Bank-
supported component should take advantage of the lessons of
experience of USAID. The interim evaluation of WASHED expected in
April 1992 will provide an opportunity to modify the latter project
so as to maximize the impact of a joint effort with the Bank-
supported project. This component proposes to work in three of the
provinces covered by WASHED.
In addition,  it will be beneficial to study the potential to
coordinate with the PROANDES project of UNICEF. PROANDES started
in 1990, has a budget of US$5 million, and covers six provinces.
About $2 million of the budget is devoted to water and sanitation.
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND COST SUf4ARY
Annex 9.6 presents the implementation schedule for the basic
sanitation component, with the number of communities and persons to
be served each year, by province. Annex 9.7 presents the annual
costs of each program within the component.



Annex 9 - I
- 175                      Page 1 of 3
TECHNICAL OPTIONS
FOR WATER AND SANITATION PROJECTS
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
Concept
In order to address the needs of the lower-income dispersed rural
communities appropriate levels of water and sanitation services are
to be provided. Communities with populations between 250 and 2,000
inhabitants  will  qualify  for  inclusion  in  the  project.
Prioritization of the qualifying communities will be ascertained by
a census study which will provide an index based on a series of
health,  demographic,   demand  and  'willingness-to-contribute'
factors.    However,  projects  will  only  be  undertaken  where
sufficient demand for water and sanitation services is demonstrated
by the community.
Design Parameters
The design population for each water project is to be the
estimated population of the community 10 years from the expected
completion date. In the absence of actual population growth rates
an average annual rate of 1.8% is to be applied to the current
rural population. Peak flow rates are to be based on a consumption
level of 30 1/s for public standpipes and 80 1/s for house
connections. Distribution networks are to be sized on the basis of
100% house-connections and storage tanks must provide 24 hours of
flow capacity. Selected sources must be capable of supplying water
at a sustained daily rate at least equal to half of the maximum
daily demai.A.
Considering the low-cost solutions employed, the design period
for each water and sanitation project will be 10 years. Where more
conventional designs are employed the design period may be doubled
to 20 years. However, the useful life of all electrical equipment
is limited to 5 years.
Service Levels
Following education and orientation by project promoters each
community is to be given a choice of service levels for their water
systems.   The basic level of service will comprise a public
standpipe to serve a maximum of 20 families each.  However, if
users request house connections they should be charged the full
incremental cost of installing the 13mm branch pipe and a flow
meter (el derecho de coneccl6n). This payment could be reduced by
users providing the materials and labor for excavations.
Various prototype designs will he available to the
communities, these are all to be tested and optimized before the
commencement of the project:



Annex 9 - 1
- 176 -                    Page 2 of 3
(a)  Communities with design populations between 250 and 1,000
inhabitants will utilize one of the following systems:
(i)   Protected wells with handpumps
(ii)  Simple gravity systems with public standpipes
(iii)  Enhancements to either of these systems according to
the community's capacity
(b)  Communities with design populations over 1,000 inhabitants
will utilize one of the tollowing systems:
(i)   Deep wells with submersible pumps
(ii)  Gravity systems with public standpipes and/or house
connections
(iii)  Pumped systems from streams and rivers with simple
treatment works (especially for iron removal) -
although wherever possible, this option will be avoided
in favor of systems that utilize water sources that do
not require treatment.
Each community is to provide a minimum of 30% of the total
investment costs of the installed water system.   They will be
expected to contribute this proportion in a combination of
unskilled labor (in supervised "mingas"), local materials and cash.
Water Treatment
Water systems that utilize "safe" sources (such as spring-
capture and deep-wells) are unlikely to need treatment. However,
every water source must be thoroughly examined for biological and
mineral contaminants before excluding treatment.   Furthermore,
these sources will need particular attention with continuous and
regular monitoring to ensure that the water quality is not
deteriorating.
Where there is any doubt about the current (or future) quality
of the water source, chlorination facilities will be provided.
However, present methods for automatic chlorine-dosing are
generally too expensive or inappropriate for application in rural
areas. Therefore, efforts will be made to ensure that installed
chlorinators are effective, sustainable and appropriate to the
community's requirements. Regular follow-up by promoters will also
be necessary to ensure that the community's Junta is instructed in
the importance and correct usage of the chlorinator.
Other treatment processes are to be avoided wherever possible
since these invariable demand high levels of operation and
maintenance costs. But if deemed necessary these processes should
follow the principles of low-cost, low-maintenance technologies.
Iron-salts are particularly problematic in the shallow aquifers of
the ccastal region and these must be removed to produce an
acceptable water quality. Accordingly, simple aerator cascades and
settling tanks will be installed to promote precipitation of the
oxidized salts.



Annex 9 - 1
- 177 -                    Page 3 of 3
Latrines
The "Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) Latrine" is to be used as
the general country model.   Variations  in materials will be
permitted and encouraged to suit the availability of local
resources. For instance, the pour-flush model may be substituted
to provide a water-seal, but this may only be appropriate where
there is an adequate and continuous water supply.
Before the installation of latrines, each community must first
participate in an organized program of hygiene and sanitation
education with bealth-care promoters. The community should then be
involved in all stages of the selection of technologies, location
of latrines and their construction. Each family will be expected
to contribute a minimum of 50% toward the cost of their latrine.
In practice, this is expected to be all of the labor costs for
digging the pit(s) and assembling the structure.
The design of the VIP latrine may need to be adapted in areas
where local conditions are not favorable to a simple soakaway pit.
For instance, the presence of a high water table may require that
a sealed pit be provided and a means for safely draining away the
effluent. This precaution is particularly important where tlere is
danger of contaminating the water source. However, each case will
have to be determined individually and the solutions pronosed
should follow the principles of low-cost, low-maintenance
technologies.
Costs
An average of US$ 25 per capita is to be applied to low-cost
water systems for calculations of investment costs. This figure
may rise to USS 50 per capita for larger, more conventional
systems. However, it is planned tha approximately four times as
many low-cost systems will be constructed than high-cost systems.
Latrines are to be costed at an average of US$ 60 per unit.
In accordance w.,th the preceding parameters, a set of standard
designs, and their associated costs, will developed for the basic
rural water systems and latrines.



Annex 9 - 2
- 178 -                      Page 1 of 3
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR SELECTION OF COMMUNITIES
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
The  selection  of  rural  communities  for  inclusion  in the  Basic
Sanitation component will adhere to a strict set of qualifying
criteria. Each community considered will need to meet the following
threshold criteria before an appropriate water project can be
evaluated:
(i)       Only areas covered by the Health component of the project are
to be considered
(ii)      Phasing of the water supply projects should match, as closely
as is practical, that of the Health projects
(iii)     Only communities of between 250 and 2,000 inhabitants are to
be  considered.    Although,  smaller  and  more-dispersed
communities may be included at a later stage
This is expected to yield about 700 candidate communities in the six
provinces of focus. A selection process must then be applied to each
of these communities in order to generate a short-list in order of
preference and urgency. This process must eliminate communities where
the local conditions are unfavorable and provide a ranking for
communities which meet minimum implementation criteria. The following
five criteria demand that key social and physical characteristics be
examined in order to provide the means for prioritizing the projects:
1.   A Reoresentative Range of Communities:  Since this component is
characterized as a pilot study it will be important to obtain a
representative  sample  of rural  communities.    A  preliminary
selection will be made to include a wide range of communities in
terms of size and socio-economic levels, using available
information to develop indicators of income, potential growth and
accessibility.
2.   Size of the Community:  Within the threshold population range, two
service  levels  can be  identified.    The majority  of  rural
communities fall into the range of 250 to 1,000 inhabitants, they
are generally disperse and seldom developed. Consequently, the
project will favor this lower range of populations in a ratio of
about four to one, as compared to the upper range of 1,000 to
2,000 inhabitants.
3.   Community Health:  Each area of activity in the six provinces has
already been prioritized by the Health Project in terms of their
high incidence of health problems, particularly gastro-enteric
diseases such as diarrhea and cholera. An examination of local
conditions, in terms of the incidence of water-related diseases,
will allow a more detailed ranking of the qualifying communities
in order of urgency.



Annex 9 - 2-
- 179 -                      Page 2 of 3
4.   Field Verification:   Vi-sits will be made to the communities
selected in Criterion 3 to verify the population size and the
socio-economic level.  In addition, this visit will be used to
confirm that the community does not have an existing water supply
system and to determine that there is a reasonably accessible and
suitable water source available (in order to eliminate non-typical
situations which would have to be treated as special cases in a
future program). See Box 1 below for practical limits applied to
water source accessibility.
5.   Demand:  During the Field Verification visit or in a subsequent
visit, a participatory assessment will be carried out of the
demand for water and sanitation services, refer to Box 2 for
This process will comprise four steps:
(i)    A representative group of people from the community will be
gathered and a brief explanation given to them of the
objectives of the project and the need to consult with them
on the possibility of including their community in it.
(ii)   If there exists an interest in proceeding further, the
group will be assisted in carrying out a "self-diagnosis"
to determine if water and sanitation are high priorities
within the community as comprared to other perceived needs.
(iii)  If the previous step confirms that water and sanitation are
considered to be high priorities, an analysis of incomes
and ability and willingness to pay will be carried out.
Before starting this process, however, an explanation will
be given to the community on the conditions governing the
project, especially regarding cost recovery and the
requirement that they form a community organization to
administer and manage the water supply facilities.
(iv)   The community's willingness to pay will finally be double-
checked against the affordability and appropriateness of
the seven technical options proposed (see Annex 9-4).
no M s w^m sot pee Bsrar -
In gen.wual, tha fol.lowlng physical. lmits wil. b ;-applied when selec4ting
couities for water supply projeOtst,
Ift XT SUPPL?,St  Water sourkcO  are to de within 1.5 kilometr
.center of the community
PUMPE' SUPPLRSBt    Ecreholes to be d_rlld to a maximum depth of 60 metres;
Pressure pipelines at, not to. oceed i kil*metre Lengt
Elevated tanks are not to*exceed 20 metres height



Annex 9 - 2
-180-                              Page 3 of 3
BOX 2:' E:VLUATION OF DEMAND
Methodoloav: For the second and third steps outlined above, participatory-methods
will be used based on the concept of "focal groups".   The collection of the
necessary information takes place through a process of guided- discussLon (similar
* to a workshop) with the members of the community group.  Accordingly, a-trained-
"facilitator" will conduct an interactive group process consisting of a serLes of::
structured activities and materials. The groups should be generally representative
of the population of the community in terms of age and sex.  It is very important
to ehoure that women are well represented.
For the "community self diagnosis", methodologies exist that can be adapted and',
applied to this situation. With respect to the determination of incomes, a series
of questions should be posed which will guide the discussion -towards thiLs-topic. -
The objective is to determine, above all, the monthly incomes in cash, the--
variations of such incomes from month to month during the year, and the degree o
homogeneity  or heterogeneity  of incomes within  the  community.   X .marked.
heterogeneity in incomes will make the implementation of a cost recovery system
more difficult.
For the analysis of ability and willingness to pay, it will be necessary to prepare
a series of posters showing each of the technical options for water and sanitation,
with their respective payment requirements per family: initial contribution (30%
of investment cost) and monthly tariff for operation, maintenance, and replacement.
of parts. The procedure to be followed with the group is: (1)' select the level.
of service that appears most appropriate as a starting point, (2) show the
corresponding poster and ask whether the group members are willing to contribute.
the indicated amounts for that option, (3) respond to questions and guide the:
discussion on capacity and willingnesss to pay for the first option, (4) if the
consensus of the group on the first option is negative, determine if they prefer.
a les costly option or a higher level of service with higher costs, and show the-.
next corresponding poster, initiating a new round of discussions, (S) repeat the
number of times necessary until it is established that there is an agreement within
Ithe group on the willingness to pay for one of the options, or that there is:no
'agreement on any of the options.
Personnel:  To carry out this process successfully, It is desirable to have two
people: a facilitator trained in the management of participatory group sessions and.
an engineer or technician who can answer technical questions.
Follow-UD:  After the initial meeting, a collection of materials should be left.
with -the community which the people can discuss among themselves. These should
includes
*    Copies of the posters of the technical options,,
*     Information on the project in general.
*     Information on the "rules of the game" regarding cost recovery and community
management of water systems.
A::  '-nformation on what are the next steps the community 8hould take ton
formalize its participation in the project - typically, forming a Junta de
Administraci6n and establishing mechanisms for the community's contributiOaf
to the project costs.



PROVINCIAL LEVEL IPLEMENATON MODELS FOR RURAL WATER AND SANITATON
Second Socdal Development Projec(. Ecuador
owspoummownlo _MO                          -O I                                   . _
I IA      FORMTON OF   IsTUos    COTRUCnON  sURwISO             AUt                    CONTINOU
AND    ~  I    AMD                  I                                                                  LSPFOUT FOR
uOoaIb         IiID               AC;D       SAlTARY      COMUNIY        AND         Of TME       OF TE        OF SE S"ATARY
COORD1IIW  jE#EC1 OF   EDUCATION   ORGANIZATIONS    DE S1I1       WORKS        WOR          WORnS"                  EDUCATION
_~~~~~~~                                                                           =                         =    - 
E08                    PIVATE CO.    RVA1E CO.                                           mOm
IEOS              IEOS          MOG          EOS          NOO          aid          EOS       PRIVATE Co.     EOS         MOE
NMO                      EOS        COMMUNNY               INO
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_m                     _RIVATE Co. -RVATE Co.                                            MOH
EOS
2            IEOS               NCO           MOm          NOO         moO           md          EOS        RVAME CO.                   kmOO As  E  I_
MOE                      EOS        COMMOUNY                ,NO O
IEON
3            IEOS                                               NOO                                        PRIVATE CD..O     nba       MOE
PROVINCIAL
COUNCILS
OR                             NGO                    PRIVA1E CO.
PllIATE CO.                                          MAOH
4         REGIONAL              NGO                       MOps        I EGO  IOS t   amd         EOS       PRIVATE CO.     EOS         MOE
4                                ~~~MOH                   T4dchcd                                          PNGO Aedttee}
GOVERNMENT BODIES                        MOE                     AsatmI    COMMUNlY                                                NG
ir-S: Technical
Support and Follow-Up
I Jo 1 aSea
C-6 XOUUV



SERVICE LEVELS AND COSTS FOR ; BASIC SANITATION COMIPONENT
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
.=                ~~~~POPULATION of the COMMUNITY
TECHNOLtOGICAL
OPTION               Z~~~~50 - 500            500 - 1,000             1,000 - 2.000
(wkhf Costs per Capita In US$)  rCont-o    O tM  |Rep  ||- Const- |o  M  |Repace- | nt-    rM   Replace
|A    (I1 pump/10o houses)             lg                                        
B|GraviW System                 ~|1                       11         i        i 
11    Pupe System
|     P6UBLVzIC SvTANDPIP ESl
|E|Pumped System                                                                     il  
HOUSE CONNECTIONS                                       n
I Jo I 9?Ud
~-6 x9uuV



DECENTRALIZED STRUCTURE OF THE RURAL SANITAION AND SAFE WATER COMPONENT
Second Social Devtelopment Project, Ecuador
of
I I
HEALTH
PROJECT
COORDINTIONi
TECHNICLL ADVISORY
ASSISTANCE                    Water/Sanitation Coordinator                COMMITTEE               ..,.
|   GROUP  |               ^                             "        || IEOS/Govt/Others
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ASSISTANCE         12                     34
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r==I I   I,
NGO     ~PROVINCIAL       REGIONAL        PRIVATE
COUNCIL          BODY          COMPttiy
I Jo
S-6 xP-"uV



CHRONOGRAM FOR ThE BASIC SANITATION CONMPONENT
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
NEW WATER SYSTEMS and LATRINES I YEAR                UPGRADED WATER SYSTEMS IYEAR
PROVINCE                                                                        T 2  3  4  Total  1  2  3  4
1  AZUAY             d       10       6       7                         2       3       3        1
2  CHIMBORAZO        7       13       5       5                          1      2   2      1
3  MANABI            7       11       9.9                 ,11                   2        2       1
4  GUAYAS                     7      10       9                          1      2        2       2
5  LOJA                       6       9       9                         2       2        3       1
6  PICHINCHA                  6       7       71                                2        2       1 
|Total No. ofProiects
Population Sered                    1                         | |
C O ST S /Y E A R  (1992 US$ x1,000)
PROGRAM                            _______                                  oa
1  NEW WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS       749.60     1,337.40     1,446.40    1,446.40 
2UPGRADING WATER SYSTEMS       128.00       208.00      224.00       1 12.00           
3  LATRINES                       211.20   r  528.00   |  460.80   I  460.80
TOTAL COSTS TS
I X0 I a2eU
9-6 xauirv



ANNUAL COSTS OF THE BASIC SANITAUON COMPONENT
Second Social Development Project, Ecuador
_____       YEAR                    TOTALS
PROGRAM                              II
=1    2        3       4       Lhe
1  CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS   750    1,338   1,446   1,446   / .
2  UPGRADING OF EXISTING WATER SYSTEMS          128    208      224     112    '
3  LATRINES                                     211     528    461      461
4  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                    37      103     108     72   |  
5  COORDINATION, EXECUTION AND SUPERVISION      79      152    141      146                             H
6  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         300    500      400     250                             V
TRAINING                                    100    300      200     120  
7  STUDIES
Design Studies                               52      94     101     101  .
Institutional Restructuring of RWSS Sector  200      - 
National RWSS Inventory                     100      -
Cost Recovery from Users                    100      -
8  EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                      350     150
9  MONITORING AND EVALUATION                     -      20      40      40       _
T 0 T  A L C O S T S  (1992 US$ x 1,000)  |
I X I aUea
L -6 x9uut



- 187 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 6
SECTORAL POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
OBJECTIVES
1.    This component aims at: (a) strengthening decision-makdng processes by improving
management and resource allocation capacity within the Ministry of Public Health (MOH)
and its decentralized units at the national, provincial, and local levels and by contributing to
intrasectoral coordination, particularly between MOH and IESS; and (b) strengthening
MOH's capacity to assume, in the medium term, responsibilities related to project activities
so as to ensure their sustainability in the medium- and long-term. The component's activities
are grouped in three major areas: (i) decentralizauor., (ii) staff development, and (iii) studies,
and monitoring and evaluation.
DESCRIPTION
2.    The most important aspect of the health care model proposed under the project
involves a shift of emphasis from curative health care (at present, hospitals absorb nearly
80% of the budget) to preventive health care. Moreover, decisions could increasingly be
made at the local level and resources allocated based on results. Implanting programs with
emphasis on family/community coverage would require important institutional changes for
the MOH. To provide a basis for the required changes, the project would finance: (i)
technical assistance activities for developing and promoting basic organizational reforms,
including definition of operational functions and the design of systems that would strengthen
capacity at the local, provincial, and national levels, (ii) staff training, (iii) provision of
computing equipment and software; and (iv) studies.
Developing Institutional Bases for Decentralization
3.    Activities related to strengthening the institutions at the local, provincial and national
levels have been grouped as follows: (i) definition of decentralized organizational
arrangements; (ii) establishment of a budget programming system; and (iii) development of a
management information system.
4.    The definition of decentmalized organizaional aanagemnts involves changes in the
organizational/functional structure and in operating mechanisms, norms, and procedures of
the MOH, the Provincial Health Departments, and the local operating units. Implementation
of these changes would be done at the central and provincial levels and at the metropolitan
hospitals, health centers and subcenters, and health posts in several steps:
(a)   Assessment of the situation at each level (MOH, Provincial Health
Departments, and local operating unit)
(b)   Design of administrative reforms
(c)   Adoption of a legal framework
(d)   Development of administrative and operational instruments and standardized
procedures and norms



- 188 -ANNEX l 0
Page 2 of 6
5.    The MOH has defined short-, medium- and long-term plans for a phased
decentralization process. In the short-term the MOH would, at the central level: (i)
strengthen the General Directorate of Health whose main role would be to coordinate the
work of the technical directorates within the MOH at the central level as well as that of the
provincial directorates; and (ii) create a National Directorate of Basic Health Services as a
normative unit that would provide support to the Provincial Directorates in the establishment
and organization of local health service area networks. At the provincial level, the MOH
would create functional groups to support and supervise the local health serv'Ce areas; and
and at the local level, the MOH would establish the local healt" service ares s.
6.    The project would support the operationalization of the decentralization plan and the
process by which the initial steps would be implemented. The process includes consultations
with, and support gathering from, representatives from the central, provincial and local levels
of the MOH, universities, health professional associations and unions. The consultations
would solicit the views of key officials at the local health area, provincial and central levels
and provide information and orientation on the changes that would take place with regard to
decentralization of functions. The main objective is to ensure that those who would be
affected by changes understand the benefits of decentralization and are aware of the increased
responsibilities at local levels.
7.    The development of operational and administrative procedures and instruments would
take place during the first two years of project implementation and would be reviewed
periodically throughout the project execution period to ensure their adequacy and relevance.
All the above activities would be supported by the project through financing of about 50
person-months of local and international technical assistance, preparation of manuals, printing
and distribution.
8.    The establishment of a budget programming system seeks to improve the capacity at
the central, provincial and local levels to do budget programming and preparation and
accounting-financial budget monitoring to encourage use of the budget as a planning,
management, and control too'. At present, resource allocation is based on a set of inert
criteria--mechanically adjusting to the availability of funds from the treasury or to an overall
budgetary ceiling for each item, activity, local operating units, Provincial Health Department,
MOH, and the overall health sector. Within the proposed project, initial activities for the
establishment of a budget programming system include the preparation of manuals,
instruments and guidelines for their use, all of them based on the practical experience learned
by staff of the project preparation unit. Purchase of office equipment and monitoring and
supervision of system implementation would begin once the initial activities have been
completed.
9.    These activities are intended to: (a) ensure that budget preparation flows from the
local operating and administrative units to the Provincial Health Departments and the MOH,
rather than the other way around; (b) introduce the use of the technical criteria necessary for
the equitable and efficient allocation of resources among provinces, areas, and activities; and
(c) allow for periodic monitoring of the budget movements, accounting records and transfers



- 189 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 3 of 6
from the treasury, to optimize resource utiLization and to make resource allocation flexible.
The project would support the establishment of a budget programming system thiough:
(a)   Technical Assistance. The project would provide about 30 person-months of
international technical assistance and 8 person-years of local technical
assistance to the budget and finance network within MOH, the provincial
directorates and the health areas. Assistance wonild be provided for the design
of improved processes and systems, on-the-job training to staff in charge of
budget planning, preparation and analysis, and development of seminars and
workshops on budgeting and financial management.
(b)   Office Equipment. The project would fin&nce the purchase of the necessary
office equipment, as well as computers and specialized software for the
provincial directorates and local health areas.
10.   The development of a management information system as a support mechanism for
institutional strengthening would be included in the project. Since the sector is likely to
continue facing fiscal restrictions and a simultaneous need to expand service coverage,
improve its quality and focus on high-risk sectors of the population, it is necessary to
improve the quality of the decision-making process on health issues at the national,
provincial, and local levels. This subcomponent aims at reaching this objective through
coordinated actions in the areas of: (a) information and technology, (b) cost analysis, and (c)
planning and programming at the local, provincial and national levels.
(a)   Ipformation and Technology. The focus is on the review and systematization
of procedures and mechanisms for capturing, consolidation, delivery, analysis,
dissemination, and use of health statistics. It seeks to streamline the flow of
information to users. It emphasizes methods of analysis and precise ways of
disseminating and utilizing the indicators to make decisions at the local
operating units, local administrative units, Provincial Health Departments,
MOH, and se'toral levels.
The basic health data collection form has been developed. The proposed
project would finance printing, and distribution of this instrument that would
constitute the basis for development of a systematic health data collection
mechanism to be used, after consolidation and analysis, for decision making at
all levels (local, provincial, and national). The proposed project would also
finance about 15 person-months of technical assistance, purchase of computer
equipment and hiring of qualified staff.
(b)   Cost AnalysiL  During preparation of the proposed project, the MOH began
carrying out detailed cost analyses for priority areas to be covered during the
first two years of project implementation. In addition, a computerized cost
accounting system is being field tested in the Pichincha Provincial Directorate.
It is expected that, wijer the proposed project, a suitable cost analysis system



- 190 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 6
would be established for the evaluation, control, decision-making, and
allocation of funds based on changing priorities.
The proposed project would finance about 10 person-months of technical
assistance, and travel and per diem costs related to periodic monitoring and
supervision of these activities.
(c)   Planning and Programming. The main objective is tc carry out an inventory
of health sector resources at the central, provincial and local levels to enable
the MOH to determine priorities with regard to human, physical, and financial
resource allocation. In addition, the project would support the design a
microplanning model to be used regularly by the local administrative units, to
serve as the basis for its operations and as input to the planning process and
achieve the required coordination between budget planning and programming.
To implement the above activities, the project would finance about 10 persoin-
months of national and intemational consulting services as well as the costs of
doing the inventory of health sector resources.
Staff Development
11.   Reorienting health service delivery to a system based on prevention, decentralization,
participation, managerial orientation, and efficiency requires changes in the distribution,
attitudes, knowledge, and skills of sector workers. Therefore, this subcomponent has the
following objectives: (a) to utilize as much as possible the human resources already linked to
the sector to facilitate implementation of project activities; (b) to upgrade the skills of
financial, managerial and administrative personnel in charge of basic health care services;
and (c) to develop human resources that would contribute to strengthening the institutions in
the medium-term. The required steps to develop specialized training programs would be:
1.    Analysis of training needs based on the requirements of a decentralized
organizational structure, a new budget programming system, and a revised
management information system
2.    Development of administrative and operating manuals and training materials
3.    Training of managerial, financial and administrative staff at all levels
4.    Evaluation of the training outcomes
12.  In addition, seminars, workshops and training would be conducted for staff of MOH,
the Ministry of Finance, CONADE and the Contaloria to ensure coordination between these
institutions for the successful implementation of the project and for the adequate functioning
of the budget, cost, planning, and evaluation systems of MOH and of the oveill health
sector.
13.   The proposed project would finance: (i) technical assistance to support the MOH in
carrying out the above activities; (ii) development, printing and distribution of trining
materials and administrative and operating manuals; (iii) travel and per diem costs for



Annex 10
-191 -                            FPage 5 of 6
instnictors and trainees, and monitoring and supervision activities, as well as tmaining and
conference room rental when required; (iv) short-term visits abroad and short-terrn
scholarships for managerial and key financial and administrative staff; (v) courses, seminars
and workshops, as well as short-term university level courses for abo.x 750 staff at the
central, provincial and local levels; (vi) short-terms visits abroad would also be financed for
key staff in charge of budget planning and programming.
Studies
14.   This subcomponent aims at supporting and enhancing the institutional improvements
being sought for the delivery of MOH health services by financing studies and activities
devoted to: (a) improved interinstitutional coordination; (b) cost recovery and affordability of
basic health services, and payment systems; and (d) rehabilitation of the hospital system with
special attention to financing issues.
15.   Improved Intrasectoral Coordination: This study would analyze mechanisms for
coordinating the function and operation of the MOH and the Medical Prograri of the IESS in
the production, financing, and delivery of health care services, particularly in underserved
regions, with the goal of eliminating costly and unnecessary duplication of resources,
personnel, and services. As different experiences demonstrate in other countries, substantial
savings and expansion of coverage to unprotected populations result from the implementation
and consolidation of coordinated health systems. Recommendations of the stuoy would focus
on areas where MOH and IESS can make specific agreements for joint actions and other
types of collaboration.
16.   Cost Recovery/Payment Systems: While cost recovery would be used in specific
project activities, there is little knowledge on how cost recovery mechanisms could be
introduced in the delivery of other services under the project. This study, on the basis of
LSMS information, would assess the impact that alternative fee schedules for different.
services would have upon the use of these services by different social/income groups, and the
impact on sector finances. Results of the, study would then be used to strengthen
recommendations regarding the fees to be used. In addition, proposed studies would assess
different payment mechanisms that could be introduced for providing incentives to providers
for improving quality of care, particularly in underserved areas, limiting cost escalation,
excessive allocation of resources to curative care, and use of inappropriate medical
technology.
17.   Rehabilitation of the Hospital System: Although effectiveness of the hospital system
is poor, a comprehensive diagnostic of the situation, including physical, human, financial and
managerial resources does not exist, either for single hospitals or for the system as a whole.
The project would finance the set of studies required to fill this gap and to make
recommendations as to how a deep crisis could be prevented.



- 192 -
Annex 10
7age 6 of 6
Imoact Evaluation
18.  In addition, impact evaluation studies of sector programs would be supported, as
described in Annex 10.1.



- 193 -                            ANNEX 10-1
Page 1 of 5
MCT *VAEYALAT
ObJectives and Methodology
1.    The monitoring of health and nutrition indicators will be done through the normal
activities of the health personnel in the health service areas' facilities. After the health
personnel register the informration c onceming their specific activities the data will be
aggregated for the different health service areas until reaching the national level. This
aggregate will be analyzed at regular intervals making it possible to monitor trends over
time. The analysis of the data may indicate the need for urgent decision-making and policy
changes. However, it will not be possible to draw conclusions about the impact of giver.
interventions from the collected data because monitoring itself does not control for many
extemal or independent variables which may influence the impact of interventions. To
evaluate the impact of interventions utilizing monitoring data it will be necessary to develop a
study which controls for the possible effect of variables extenal to the project.
2.    The control of external variables can be achieved through prior experimental pilot
studies which are not possibl_ for ethical reasons, once the decision has been made to
imp!ement a project on a large scale. In projects such as the one proposed in Ecuador it will
be necessary to make a before and &ter comparison utilizing some type of multivariate
analysis that enables adjustments to be made for the effects of independent variables that may
vary by year of comparison. One reason to adjust for certain external variables is the
expected expansion of project activities in the poorest populations.
3.    A statistical method often used for such a purpose is the model of logistical regression
because it allows for categorization of dependent variables (e.g., presence or absence of a
certain health risk). One use of logistical regression models is to select risk factors with
independent effect, which could be used later on to identify in a simple manner the families
in greatest need.
4.    The information gathered on dependent and independent variables during the first year
of the project will be the baseline data for the evaluation of impact. This data will later be
compared with those of the intervention period. Essentially the indicators monitored during
the first year of the project will constitute the "before' dat since the whole of the
intervention would be in preparation or only in partial imp. .-ntation. The information
gathered during the third or fourth year of the project would be that of the intervention. The
data monitored and reported at these two points in time would be used to conduct the befon:
and after comparison of project impact.
5.    For the impact evaluation of the project in Ecuador three types of external variables
will be included in the model: (i) chhracterisdcs of the individual; (ii) socioeconomic
characteristics of the famiuly; and (iii) data relative to specific interventions. Information will
be gathered from two sources: (i) household jurvey; and (ii) information gathered from
health workers on the characteristics of the interventions and on environmental sanitation in
the health service areas.



- 194 -
ANNEX 10-1
Page 2 of 5
6.    The impact evaluation studies will be contracted out due to the need to evaluate the
project with independent investigators a nd the study's implicit complexity. It will be
necessary to accurately define the terms of reference for this contract, including further
details on the statistical model and the variables which will be utilized.
Impact Indicators
7.    Due to the complexity of undertaldng a study on impact evaluation through
multivariate analysis, particularly in a project the size of the one in Ecuador, the number of
dependent variables analyzed should be kept to a minimum. These variables ought to be able
to be obtained in a simple and low cost manner. For that reason, only the following brief
listing of variables is proposed.
Infant Mortality
8.    There are two limitations with utilizing infant mortality rates as a dependent variable.
The first is that there may be a lack of reliable data. According to recent estimates, Ecuador
has an infant mortality rate of 44 per thousand live births, a figure relatively high in the
Latin American context. However, it has been argued that this MOH estimate is low due to
underregistration in rural areas. One solution to this problem is to undertake a thorough
review of the history of pregnancy specifically structured to reveal unreported deaths when
the birth intervals are very long. The second limitation is the need to have large sample
frames (between 9 and 10 thousand families surveyed) in order to have representative results
at national level (including mountain-coastal and urban-rural areas) and to reduce the
possibility of error in detecting reliable changes. This is due to the relatively low incidence
of death by comparison with other health risks.
Mother-Child Anthropometric Indicators
9.    Improvement in the nutritional status of children under three years of age is an
important goal of the project, and is one of the most reliable indicators of health status and
standard of living. It is proposed that anthropometric indicators be chosen because they are
positive health indicators. Recent tradition has been that positive health and well-being
indicators replace traditionally used negative indicators, such as morbidity and mortality.
Specialized international organizations (PAHO, UNICEF, FAO) have followed this idea and
used anthropometry to satisfy this need. This is because effective program coverage and
implementation should result in homogenous values across populafion subgroups, independent
of their socioeconomic differences. The evaluation in Ecuador should conform to this
criteria and utilize snthropometric indicator values.
10.   The influence of maternal nutritional status on birthweight and on matemal and child
morbidity and mortality is well known. Improvements in the nutritional status of children
under 3 years is an important goal of the project, being one of the best indicators of health
status and quality of life. Nutritional status may be measured from the beginning of
pregnancy up to the age of three by the following three indicators: (i) matemal weight for
height in relation to the gestational age during pregnancy; (ii) birth weight in combination



- 195 -                           ANNEX 10-1
Page 3 of 5
with the gestational age at time of birth; and (iii) weight for age in the first three years of
life. Indicators (i) and (iii) can be easily measured at home. They have the additional
advantage that tihey will also be measured at the health services. The second indicator is
impossible to register it in a home visit. Therefore, only indicators (i) and (iii) should be
included in the evaluation.
11.   An additional advantage of using these indicators in the impact evaluation is the
greater prevalence of low weight cases than other indicators such as mortality or morbidity.
Thus, the sample size when utilizing these indicators need not be so large.
Health Service Coverage of: Pregnancy Control, Adequate Childbirth Care (includes
midwives) and Growth Monitoring in Children under Five Years of Age
12.   These indicators consist with the priorities established by the project and do not
require any justification.
Certain Causes of Illness in Children under One Year of Age
13.  It is very important to study the changes in certain morbidities which the project's
package of interventions, including inter alia health education, environmental sanitation and
immunizations, may prevent. A tentative proposal is to analyze changes in diarrhea
incidence, acute respiratory diseases and preventable infectious diseases. However, there is
the possibility of self-reporting errors when the data are collected through household surveys.
For example, there may be recall bias on the mother's part or she may be unable to describe
the symptoms and signs of the disease. In an effort to eliminate some of the possible bias
the study should focus only on the incidence of diarrheas and respiratory diseases in the most
recent three months.
Sample Sizs
14.   The size of the sample is a subject of primary importance. Since the statistical
analysis will be multivariate, the fundamental criterion is that the sample size should be large
enough to permit measuring the effect of the different independent variables on the dependent
variable. Thus, the type of impact, or dependent variable, greatly influences the sample size
decision. Infant mortality, which has a low incidence rate, would require a sample size of
eight to nine thousand families in order to observe reliable changes. In the case of
anthropometric indicators, which are relatively more prevalent, it has been estimated with the
help of specialists, that a sample of only one to three thousand households is quite sufficient.
15.   The size of the sample needed to evaluate the impact of the Ecuador project has
influenced the possibility of collaborating with other ongoing studies. One such possibility
would be to incorporate the impact evaluation into the Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS), which is set to evaluate the impact of the vocational training component under the
ongoing World Bank-supported project in the educational sector. The LSMS has the
advantage of properly measuring the standard of living. However, the sample size of the
LSMS does not permit studying the changes in infant mortality in a reliable manner. Other



- 196 -
Annex 10-1
Page 4 of 5
pos-ibilities for collaboration (inciuding demographic surveys developed by UNFPA and the
DHS survey planned by AID) were dismissed due to the fact that their samples also will not
be sufficient to measure infant mortality and are focused on other subjects with too many
questions already in the instruments.
Propoal 
16.   UJnder the project two types of studies based on different surveys would be carried
out:
(a) Impact Evaluation Study of Anthropometric and Coverage Indicators as Part of the
LSMS Survey.
17. This study will take advantage of the LSMS survey which has already been planned
and approved. The LSMS survey will be performed at two points in time, consisting of a
two-stage sampling (a before and after approach). In the LSMS survey the selective
sampling procedure will identify on the first home visit, when the LSMS variables are
recorded, the presence of pregnant women and children under 3 years. The surveyed homes
will then be selected for a second visit at a time when it will 1;e best to record these
indicators. On the second visit other indicators will also be reccrded, such as morbidity in
the first year of life. This survey is planned to reach almost four lhousand households and
would thus be a large enough sample size to analyze anthropomet-  Idicators.
(b) Inpact Evaluation Study of Infant Mortat;ty and other Indicators
18. For the reasons already stated, this study will be carried out without any assistance
from surveys organized by other institutions. In the preparatory study it would be necessary
to explore the following issues: (i) survey techniques to best ensure reliability of the infant
mortality indicator; (ii) incorporation of variables to measure the standard of living and other
variables from the causal model; and (iii) incorporation of the anthropometric and other
indicators in the same home visit with duly trained interviewers.
Feasibility Study and Definition of the Terms of Reference for the Impact Evaluations
19.   An intemational consultant with wide experience on the subject wiU be hired to define
the following aspects: (i) the causal model and the variables; (ii) the feasibility of the
respective studies, including reliability analysis in measuring changes of the proposed
indicators, and their costs; (iii) the necessary analytical methodology; and (iv) the terms of
reference to contract these studies with consulting firms.
20.   The findings of the impact evaluation studies will help the Ministry of Health improve
its services. This is particularly important in view of the long-term nature of the proposed
health sector development plan. To this end, knowledge on the cost-effectiveness of the
different interventions will be useful. Studies on the cost-effectiveness of the interventions



- 197 -
Annex 10-1
Page 5 of 5
could be performed after completing the impact evaluation. It is proposed that these studies
be designed during the project preparation stage of follow up operations, althougli they could
also be carried out at the end of the project implementation period.



PROJECT ACTION F AN                                        Annex  1 1
Page 1 of 3
OBJECTIVES               .                       ACTIONS                                 TIMETABLE                    STATUS/REMARKS
:1.  POLICY/INSTITUTIONAL REFORNS
A.  REORGANIZATION OF THE HEALTH :A.1  Furnish the Bank a Ninisterial Oecree               :A.1  No later than         :A.1  Completed
:       CARE DELIVEkY SYSTEN                  establishing the local see .ce areas .s         :a,, 15, 1992
:  :  the new administrative levei of the
:  :  public health system.
:A.2  Furnish the Bank the annual programs and    :A.2  No Later than             :A.2   ComLeted
:  :  timetables of new and redeployed staff           :  June 5, 1992
:  :  needed to operate the project health
:  :  facilities.
B.  COST RECOVERY ARRANGEMENTS   :5.1  Furnish the Bank for Its review the                 :9.1  No later than           .1  Completed
:  :  design of and an lmplementation plan for            July 31. 1992
:  :  establishing a cost recovery scheme for
:  :  pharmaceuticals in project areas.
:B.2  Furnish the Bank for its review the             :9.2  No later than         :8.2  Draft proposaltreceived
:                                      :      design of and an implementation plan for    : May 1, 1992
:  :  establishing a cost recovery scheme for
:  :  basic sanitation and safe water services.
:                                      :B.3  Start pilot testing the cost recovery            :9.3  No later than
:  :  scheme for pharmaceuticals in select             : April 1, 1993            :
:  :  project areas during the first two years    :                               :
:  :  of project implementation.
:----------------------------:---------------.----------------------------------------------------........ _.  .. __ __-..........------------_-........--------................---------------... 
:11.  STWIES                           :C.1  Study on alternative procurement and
: : distribution methods for drugs and other
medical supplies.
: : Terms of Reference:                               : May 1, 1992               :TOR received and approved
Contract:                                       :  September 1, 1992
: : Start:                                               No: lovember 1, '992
Completion:                                     :  July 15, 19:
:C.2  Study on the impact of the Government's
:  :  price control policies for pharmaceuticals.
Terms of Reference:                             : Nay 1, 1992              :TOR received and approved
Contract:                                          September 1. 1992
:  .  Start:                                          :  November 1, 1992
:  :  Completion:                                     :  July 15, 1993
:C.3  E.aluation of the pilot food supplementation:
:  :  scheme for all children between 6 and 36
:  :  months of age and pregnant and lactating
women in project areas.
............................................... .......................................................................................... . ... .... ......... ............. ..........................................................



PROJECT ACTION PLAN (Continued)                                  11
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVES              :                     ACTIONS                               TI1ETABLE                  STATUS/REMARKS
Terms of Reference:                             June 1, 1992           :TOR received
Contract:                                       December 1, 1994
Start:                                          January 1, 1994
Coapletion:                                  : August 1, 1995
:                                    :C.4  Evaluation of the food supplemental4on
:  :  scheme for malnourished children between
:  :    6 and 36 months of age and pregnant and
:  :  lactating  omen  in project areas.
:  :  Terms of Reference:                          * June 1, 1992           :TOR received
:  :  Contract:                                    : October 1, 1993
:                                    :     Start:                                        : January 1 1994
:  :  Completion:                                  * December 1. 1995
:C.5  Evaluation of che micronutrient supple(en-
:  :  tation.
:                                    :     Terms of Reference:                           : June 1, 1992            :TOR received and agreed
:  :  Contract:                                    : March  5. 1993
:  :  Start:                                       : April 15, 1993
:  :  Completion:                                  : June 15, 1993           :
:C.6  Evaluation of the rural water and            .
:  :  sanitation sector institutional study.       :                         :
:  :  Terms of Reference:                          : may 1, 1992             :TOR received
:  :    Contract:                                  : January 1, 1993
:  :  Start:                                       : June 1, 1193
:  :  Completion:                                  : December, 1993
:C.7  Evaluation of the models used for the
:  :  provincial trials under the basic sanitation:
: : and safe water component.
: : Terms of Reference:                               August 1, 1994         :Outline and objectives agreed
: : Contract:                                      : November 1, 1994
: : Start:                                         : January 1, 1995
: : Completion:                                       June 1, 1995
:C.8  Study on user fees-for-services and the role:
: : of cost recovery and alternative payment
: : mechanisms in sectoral finance and resource
:     allocation.
:  :  Terms of Reference:                          : June 1, 1992            :TOR received
:  :  Contract:                                    : July 1, 1993
:  :  Start:                                       : September 1, 1993
:  :  Completion:                                  : December 31, 1994
-- - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -



PROJECT ACTION PLAN (Continued)                        Annex  ii
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVES                                    ACTIONS                     :       TIHETABLE                   STATUSjREMARKS
:C.9  Study on the rehabilitation of the hospital
system and the respective financial plan.
Terms of Reference:                          : June 1, 1992           :TOR received
Contract:                                    : february 1, 1993
Start:                                       : April 1, 1993
Completion:                                    December 1, 1993
Study on inter-institutional coordination
between the NOR and IESS.
Terms of Reference:                            m May 1, 1992          :TOR rece.ved
Contract:                                    : January 15, 1993
Start:                                         M Harch 1  1993
Completion:                                  : Decemrber 15, 1993
:C.11 Impact Evaluation
Program:
Program Terms of Reference:                  :  April 15, 1992        :Received ao . Approved
:  :    Single Studies Terms of Reference:        :  June 30. 1993          :Various studies to be urdertaken
:  :    Contract:                                  :  December 31  1993    :                                   :
:  :    Start:                                     :  March 1  1994
:  :    Completion:                               :  December 31, 1995    :                                    :        O
:111.  DEVELOPMENT OF THE INSTITU-  :D.1  Submission to the Bank of a timetable for  :0.1  Ao later than         :
TIONAI. BASES FOR DECENTRALIZATION:    developing and establishing a management    :  arch 30. 1993           :Should start thereafter
:  :  information system.
.. . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .



- 203 -                            Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
Proiect Manaaement and Imolementation Arraneements
Proiect Oraanization:  Roles and Resnoosibilities of MOH's Central
Administration. Provincial Health Directorates. and Local Health Service Areas
in Proiect Imolementation
1.   The project would be undertaken within ths legal and organizational
framework of Ecuador's MOH. The project organization, therefore, would have
three levels:
A.  MOHAs Central Administration.  Overall . sty for project
management is vested in the offiue of the Ministe- Pu,Iic He_leh who would
receive support for gwneral policy setting and institut onal coordination from
a Committee of Directors from the MOH's Central Adminiistration. Day-to-day
implementation of the project would be carried out by the variot technical
entities within the MOH, as well as CEMEIM and IEOS. and activities would be
coordinated through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU would be
staffed by a Coordinator, who would report directly to the Minister, and
national and international consultants. The PCU would serve as the linkage
between the project and other MOH units in charge of implementation of project
activities, as well as with the Directorate of Basic Health Care Services,
Provincial Health Departments ar.d MOHs autonomous agencies, such as C7BIM and
IEOS. The PCU would employ an administrator that would manage and coordinate
procurement, consultant contracting, accounting and financial aspectb of the
project and technical specialists who would work in the areas of basic health
care and nutrition, safe water and sanitation, infrastructure, and
institutional strengthening.
B. MOH's Provincial Level. This level represented by the Provincial
Health Departments, or the alternative provincial institution in the case of
the basic sanitation and safe water component, would be responsible for
assisting in executing the project in their respective Provinces' local health
service areas or communities. More specifically, provincial institutions
would assist in the implementation of the primary health care program at local
health service areas' facilities; in the hiring and redeployment of personnel;
in the design and development of training prog.ams; in the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies; in the implementation of
nutritional-related activities, the sanitation component, and institutional
strengthening activities. Additionally, provincial institutiond would (except
to the extent a pr-curement agent is involved) be in charge of: civil works;
distribution of e v.pment; financial zesource allocation to local health areas
according to pertinent budgets; and supervision and evaluation of technical
and administrative activities undertaken at the local health service areas or
communities. Provincial institutions would prepare periodic reports on the
status of project implementation to be sent to the MOH's Cen: 1l
Administration.
C. Local Health Service Areas Directorates (Jefaturas de Area), or
Commimitv Oraanizatigns in the case of the basic sanitation and safe water
component, would be in charge of managing and supervising the physical, human,
financial, and technological resources assigned to an area or coimtunity for
the production and delivery of basic health care services, nutrition-related



- 204 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
inte ventions, basic sanitation and safe water, and institutioral
strengthening in project areas.
Iamolmntatfion Procedures
2.   Project implementation procedures are described below (additional
details are included in Annexes 4-10, and in the Documents Available in the
Project File).
Basic-Health Care Com=onent
3.   ImDrovement of Health Facilities.  The selection of health facilities
for construction, improvement, rehabilitation and repair during the first two
years of project implementation in six provinces was done through careful
analysie based on a survey and site inspections to verify the resul' 3 of the
survey. The same detailed planning would be carried out during the first two
years of project implementation to select health facilities that would be
constructed or improved during the following years of project execution. The
PCU technical specialist would coordinate with the procurement agent to ensure
that civil work design, construction and supervision are implemented in
accordance with agreed plans and schedules.
4.   Purchasing of equipment for the health facilities would be done at the
central level by the PCU, with support from procurement agents. It is
expected that the distribution and installation of specialized equipment would
be included as part of the supplier contract.
5.  Health Network Staffing.  Responsibility for policy setting and
decision-making related to staffing of the basic health care services rests
with the Planning and Persornel Directorates of MOH. Implementation
responsibility for hiring and redeployment of health care personnel rests with
the Provincial Health Departments and the Local Health Service Areas.
Responsibility for overall management of health personnel training program
rests with the Personnel Directorate of MOH. An NGO would be contracted to
administer the program and MOH would enter into formal agreements with local
universities to deliver the training and to train NOH trainers in specific
areas. Training materials would be developed by MOH and the universities with
specialized technical assistance.
6.   Pharmaceuticals and Other Medical Suolies.  In the first two years of
project implementation, CIMEIM would be in charge of procuring and
distributing pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies needed in project
areas on the basis of requests made by local health facilities and Provincial
Health Services. Unless agreed otherwise, procurement would be done through
international competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Supplies
would be distributed through CENIM's existing warehouses and transportation
networks. Local health facilities, upon receipt of supplies, would check to
be sure that the shipment matches what was ordered and certify that
pharmaceuticals received have an adequate shelf life. After fullfilling these
procedures, the facilities would then issue a payment voucher which CEMBIM
would use to claim reimbursement from the PCU. The PCU would reimburse up to
70 percent of the voucher's value covering expenditures for all generic
products included in the country's basic drug list; the Government would be
responsible for the remaining amount as part of its project's counterpart



- 205 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
obligations. User charges, to be collected under a cost recovery scheme to be
established during the first two years of project implementation, would help
the 3overnment recover 30 percent of project drug costs by the project's mid-
term review.
7. During the project's mid-term review, CEBEIM's performance would be
assessed along with recommendations of a study to be conducted over the first
two years of project implementation on alternative procurement and
distribution mechanisms in the project areas. On the basis of the assessment,
a decision would be made on the procurement and distribution mechanisms to be
employed during the remainder of the project.
Nutrit;.nn Comonent
8.  Irplementation responsibility for the nutrition component of the project
falls with the Directorate of Nutrition of MOH and the Local Health Service
Areas. Individual health facilities would be responsible for dispensing
nutrients and food, in accordance with set criteria, as an integral part of
the Lasic health care package they would provide. Procurement and
distribution of food products and micronutrients would be done, with the
assistance of a procutement agent, through contracts with private firms.
9.   Responsibility for training of staff in the area of nutrition falls with
the Personnel Directorate of MCH and local universities. Community training
would be done by health workers as part of the routine health care they
provide.
10. Public campaigns and special educational materials would be planned and
prepared with the assistance of specialists contracted through the PCU.
Basic Sanitation Comnonent
11. The basic sanitation component would be directed by a consultant for
basic sanitation and safe water working in the PCU. An Advisory Committee
would be established to assist in setting policies, strategies and
institutional arrangements. Committee members would include IS08 officials,
representatives from the MOH, Ministries of Social Welfare and the Interior
and a representative of CONADE. This committee would meet periodically to
review implementation aspects and make recommendations for improvement.
12. The PCU would be responsible for contracting purchasing agents for
procurement of equipment, vehicles and services as well as contracting
consultants for project supervision or support in coordination with the local
level institutions. Contracting for works would be done directly at the
provincial level, except for a few multi-provincial or large-scale activities,
which would be handled at the central level by the PCU. Each province would
have a responsible executing agency that is expected to be the provincial
directorate of BS0 in a majority of cases, in one or two cases the executing
agency would be the Provincial Council or another local governmental entity.
13. The component includes community promotion, organization and health
education activities that would be carried out by extension workers from 1030
or by NO0s. Community administration committees would be formed and its
members trained to collect tariffs and perform routine mainteuance and minor



- 0n6-
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
repairs. The PCU would contract technical assistance services to develop
training programs and provide training to trainers, staff, community workers
and community organizations in various asp,ects dealing with project execution.
14. Since this is a pilot project, four different models of institutional
arrangements would be tried during the first three years of the program. The
results would be evaluated after the trial period and recommendations of the
study would be implemented for the remuainiing program activities.  In che firs;
model, the staff of the IEOS provincial directorate would be in charge of
program execution with the exception of construction, studies, and auditing
that would be done tnrough contracts with private firms. In the second model,
the staff of IEOS provincial directorate would coordinate the activities
without having any responsibility for their direct execution, instead IEOS
would contract NGOs, private enterprises and other local entities to execute
all program activities. In the third model, IEOS provincial directorate would
contract an NGO to implement an integrated program where the NGO would
subcontract specific activities, if necessary. Finally, in the fourth model,
the entities responsible for program execution would be the Provincial Council
or other local government entity. In the latter case, IEOS would provide
technical assistance and specific activities would be contracted with private
firms.
Policy and Institutional Strenathening Comoonent
15. Responsibility for implementation of this component rests with the
Planning and Budgeting Directorates at the central level, the Provincial
Health Departments and the Local Health Service Areas. The implementation
would be coordinated by the PCU with specialized technical assistance.
National and international consultants would be contracted to support
strategic planning, high level staff training, and support systems development
and implementation.
16. Studies would be done through contracts with consultants and/or
specialized institutions, contracted with the assistance of a procurement
agent.
Reporting Reouirements
17. The Planning Directorate and the PCU Coordinator would be responsible
for the preparation of periodic reports to inform the Minister of Public
Health about the physical and financial progress of all project activities.
Each report will also provide an analysis of past and projected activities.
The PCU would submit to the Bank bi-annually project progress reports in a
format to be agreed between MOH and the Bank.



- 207 -
Annex 12-1
Page 1 of 5
OBJECTIVES AND FUNCIIONS OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established to assist in managing project
implementation. The PCU will be under the direct supervision of the Minister of
Health since MOH, through its provincial and local units, will be ultimately
responsible for the implementation of the proposed project.
The functions of the PCU are:
(a)  Serve as the MOH counterpart before the World Bank for all purposes of the project,
and before other organizations that provide technical and financial collaboration under
the terms of reference approved by the World Bank.
(b) Oversee the proper utilization of the funds committed for the execution of the proje^t.
In performing this function, it would assist the Provincial Health Directorates and
Local Health Service Areas in the management of such funds.
(c)  Assist and supervise the implementation of activities included in each of the project's
components, ensuring that it proceeds according to the criteria agreed with the World
Bank.
(d)  Prepare the terms of reference, hire under terns and conditions
satisfactory to the World Bank, and supervise consultants who would carry out
technical assistance activities.
(e) Prepare, with the support of procurement agents, bidding contracts for approved
activities. Manage, with the support of a technical assistance management agent, the
selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance. Ensure
that the bidding competitions for works, equipment, services, and studies are
carried out in accordance with the rules and procedures agreed on with the World
Bank for such purpose.
(f)  Ensure that the execution of works, services, and studies be in line with the
requirements specified for project activities in each component.
(g) Evaluate, in an ongoing basis, the progress of project implementation, conceming
financial resources spent, technical goals achieved, and impact on improving access
to basic health services, the health status of the targeted population, and increased
efficiency in the production and delivery of health care services.



- 208 -
Annex 12-1
Page 2 of 5
(h)  Coordinate the implementation of various project activities with the technical
departments of the MOH and other s- oral agencies that would be involved in
project implementation, particularly:
1. Implementation of basic health care activities with the National Directorate of Basic
Health Care Services, Provincial Health Departments, and Local Health Service
Areas.
2. Staff search and selection, as well as redeployment with thie National Directorates of
Planning and Personnel, Provincial Health Departments, and Local Health Service Areas.
3. Training programs at various levels of expertise with the Directorate of Personnel,
the School of Public Health, the Universities of Quito, Guayaquil, and Cuenca, the
Provincial Directorates of Health, and the Local Health Service Areas.
4. The pharmaceutical and other medical supplies programs, with the CEMEIM and
the National Institute of Health.
5. The nutritional component, with the National Division of Nutrition, and the Local
Health Service Areas.
6. The basic sanitation component, with the Provincial Directorates of Health,
Provincial Directorates of the IEOS, and selected NGOs.
7. Institutional strengthening activities with the Directorates of Planning and
Budgeting at the central level, the Provincial Health Departments, and the Local
Health Service Areas.
(i)  Require periodic reports from the agencies involved in project implementation on
the implementation and financial status of project activiues.
(j)  Prepare progress reports and any special reports requested by the World Bank.
(k) Liaise with other Government agencies, particularly with the Ministry of Finance
and CONADE, on matters related to the project, particularly ffnancial matters.
(1) Liaise with other MOH, government, bilateral, and multilateral agencies to ensure
proper coordination of project activities with other sectoral projects/activities.



- 209 -
Annex 12-1
Page 3 of 5
ITERNAL ORGANIZATION OF THE PCU
The PCU would be headed by a hPrct Coordinao, and comprised of two branches:
the Technical-Operational Branch and the Administrative-Financial Branch.
The PCU's Coordinator would be responsible for the technical and administrative
management of the project. More specifically, the PCU's Coordinator would:
(a) Manage the PCU, being responsible for the achievement of the goals set forth in each
of components, and for guiding and supervising the work of the two PCU's Branches.
(b) Serve as the project representative before national and international agencies involved
in project implementation.
(c) Manage the financial resources committed to the project.
(d) Coordinate the participation of relevant departments of the MOH, and other sectoral
agencies, during project implementation.
(e) Inform and consult with the MOH about matters concerning the project.
The Technical-Operational Branch would be responsible for providing technical
support and supervise the implementation of project activities in the areas of primary
health care and nutrition; basic sanitation and safe water; construction and
maintenence of the physical infrastructure; and institutional strengthening activities.
The Administrative-Financial Branch would be responsible for the administrative
management and financial control of the project.



- 210 -
Annex 12-1
Page 4 of 5
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
MINISTER OF
PUBLIC HEALTH
|DIRECTORATES 1             rPROJECT   1
-LEGAL                       COORDINAT.
-PLANNING                    UNIT (PCU)
-PUBLIC REL.               I
REGION 1                       REGION 2          REGION 3
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE
OF BASIC HEALTH
CARE SERVICES
NATION9L                        PROVINCIAL
DIRECTORATES                       HEALTH DEPTS.
LOCAL HEALTH AREA SERVICES _>



- 211 -
Annex 12-1
Page 5 of 5
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
PROJECT
COORDINATOR
TECHNICAL/                     ADMINISTRATIVE         FIELD WORK
OPERATIONAL                    FINANCIAL              CONSULTANTS
DIRECTOR                       DIRECTOR
I                                    I
- PRIMARY CARE/   1               ADMINISTRATION
NUTRITION       l              l     _l
- BASIC                             ACCOUNTING
SANITATION
- INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
- PHYSICAL
|INFRtASTRUCTUREl



ECUADOR                                             Page  1 of 2
SEcOND SOCIAL DEVELOIIENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators and Ispl.mantfatin Torgets
...................................................................................................................................
Activities                      I                   1     1992        1993   199       1995    1996    1997    1998
I                  1  3       4
.                                    ................................................. ................................................................................
I                  I
Overall management
.................. ........................I                             I
Establish the PC                                      I                  I  D
Contract procurement agents                           I                  I  D
Contract firm to develop accounting software          I                  I  D
Conduct Implementation Review                         I                7 I                  0        0                D        D       D
Contract independent auditor                          I                7 I                  D        D        D       0        0        D
8ASIC HEALTH CARE                                     I                  I
Improvement of Health Facilities                     I                   I
..... .................... II
Select sites for health centers                       INo.            88 I    8X    12X        16X     16X      16X      16X     16X
Build/rehabilitate health centers                     INo.           234 !     3X   3          16X     16K      16K      16X     16X      16S
Rehabilitate/repair local hospitals                   INr.             7 I     7K      7K      14K     14X      14X      14X     14X      14,.
Procure furniture, vehicles and equipment             ICenter        283 1             8K      12X     16K      16X      16X     16X      16
Select and assign directors and staff                 ICenter        283 I             8K      12K     16l      16X      16X     16K      16,
Train trainers, directors and staff                   INo.           283 1     5K    20m       30K     30X    15X
I                  I
Health Network Staffing and Training                  I                  I
..................................................             I         I
Hire Incremental health care personnel                INo.         1,600 I                      5K     15X      20K      20K     20K    20*
Redeploy existing staff                               INo.         1.300 1                      5K     15K      20K      10X   35K        1SX
Enter into agreements with universities               INo.             41                     100K
Develop training materials and manuals                I                  1            20x     30x      30K      20K
Conduct pre-service training for dental assistantslNo.               360 1                    20 x  20m         20K      20X     20K
Conduct training for health care adcinistration   INo.               600 1            10X     20K      20K      20K      20K     10O
personnel at the provincial and area levels         I                  I
Conduct training for primary health care personneliNo.             4,500 1            10X      20X     202      20K      20K     10K
I                  I
Pharmaceuticals and Other Medical Supplies            I                  I
.................................................I                       I
Enter Into legal agreement with CEMEIM                I                  I           100X
Procure pharmaceutictls and medical iupplies          I                  I                     10K     18K      18X      18X     18X      18X
Condct study on drug distribution end pricing    I                       I                      S       C
Conduct study on cost recovery                        I                  I                      S       C
NUTRITION                                             I                  I
Nutrition Education and Promotion                     I                  I
................................................... I                    I
Coduct workshops for health center persomel           INo.           120 1                    20K      16K      16K      16X     16K      16X
Contract specialists to plan & develop ad cappaignI                      1                    25K      75K
concdut ms  media campaigns                           Iwo.             8                               20       20x     2        20x      20x
Develop educational materials                         I                  I                             20       20x    20x   20            x ;0K
II
Growth Monitoring and Evaluation                      I                  I
.................................................. .           .        .................................................. I  I
Design and produce data collection instrunents    I                      I           100X
Procure and distribute scales and measuring tapes I                      I             8K      12K     16K      16K      16K     16X      16K
I ,



-  214  -                                                  Annex  13
Page 2 of 2
...................................................................................................................................
Activities                       I                  I        1992      1993    194    1995    1996    199I    1998
1    3     4
.................................................. ................. ...........................................................................II
Food Supplements and Micronutrients                   I
.... .I                                                                   I
involve private sectnr In food production plant   I                       I                   100X
Establish pilot universal food supple. program   Iomnef.   187,000 I                            10     18X      182      18X     182      182
Conduct programs  evaluation study                    I                   I                              S        C
Establish targeted f'ood supplementation program   IBenef.    62,000 1                          102     18X      18M      18X     182      182
Procure and distribute food and micronutrients    IPckgs. 2,600,000 1                  102      18X     18X      18X      18X     182
Condct study to evaluate nutritional impact           I                   I                              S        C
I                  I
BASIC SANITATION                                      I
Provision of Safe I 'ter and Latrines                 I                   I
.................................................. I                      I
Carry out study of rural water/sanitation sector  I                       I     S       C
Select target communities                             INo.            165 1            102      302     302      302
Contract spialists                                    I                   1            20X      802
Procure equipment and vehicles                        I                   I                     252     302      302      152
Upgrade existing rural water supply systems           INo.            42 I                      102     302      302      302
Construct water supply fa.eiLities and Latrines    IComma.           165 I                      1OX     302      302     30X
Train extension workers                               INO.           200 I             102      152     30X      302      152
Evaluate pilot program                                I                   I                                     S  C
I                  I
POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                I                   I
Devel. of Institutional Bases for Decentralizationl
..................................................                        I
Contract technical assistance                         I                   1            102      502     102      102      102     102
Purchase and distribute computers and office          I                   I                     202      162     16X      162     162      162
equipment to HN, provinces, and health centers  I
I                  I
Sector Staff Development                              I
..................................................I
Identify staff to be redeployed                       INo.         1,300 I              52      15X    2O       102     352      152
Develop personnel management systems                  I                   I                            1002
Devetop appropriate salary scales                     I                   I                            1002
Conduct training for managers and administrators  INo.               600 1             10X      20X     202      202      202     102
oevelop a long-term continuing education program   I                      I                          *            *
I                  I
Studies, Sector Monitoring and Evatuation             I                   I
.......... ........................................ I                     I
Study on ftees-for-services/rote of cost recovery  I                      I             S        C
Study on hospitals' conditions and effectiveness  I                       I             S        C
Operational research study on interinstitutional  I                       I
coordination between  OH and IESS                    I                   I             S        *       *        C
Impact evaluation study                               I                   I                      S                *        *       *        C
Mid-term review                                        I                                                         S  C
......I  I
...................................................................................................................................
D a Discreet activities
S * Start activity
C * Coplete activity
* * Continuous activity



ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT-HEALtH AND NUTRITION
Project Cost Summuary
USS                                   Sucres                          X Total
--*--------------------  ----------------------- Z foreign         Base
- Local.  Foreign      Total     ,Local.  foreign        Total      Exchange     Costs
A. BASIC HEALTH CARE                  42.5       17.5      60.0      56056.6   23156.7   79213.3           29.2      67.6
B. NUTRIIION                           4.4        1.2       5.7       5873.7    1594.3    7468.0           21.3       6.4
C. BASIC SANITATION                    8.2        3.4      11.7       10872.7    4531.9   15404.6          29.4      13.1
D. POLICY81NST.STRENGTHENING           6.5        4.9      11.4        8627.9    6431.8   15059.8          42.7      12.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                  61.7       27.1      88.7      81430.9   35714.8  117145.7           30.5     100.0
Physical Contingencies              0.8        0.9       1.6        1021.9    1147.2    2169.1          52.9       1.9
Price Contingencies                 8.3       3.5       11.8      11020.8    4598.4   15619.2           29.4      13.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  70.8       31.;     102.2      93473.6   41460.5  134934.0           30.7     115.2
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 6/8/1992 19:11
U'



ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT-HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Suimary Accounts Cost Summary
USs                                Sucres                           X Total
..''.'.....''....''                  ------------------------------   X Foreign         Base
Local   Foreign      Total         Local   Foreiri    Total        Exchange      Costs
.......... ................... ..  .... .. .... ..... ...... .. ..........   ........... .... ...... ..   
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                  7.3        4.3       11.7        9686.3    5721.4   15407.7           37.1       13.2
2. Rehabilitation                     1.8       0.9        2.7        2319.1    1248.7    3567.8           35.0        3.0
..... ........ ............ .. ... .. ................  ................................ ----  ------.---------.... ...
Sub-Totat                                9.1       5.3      .14.4       12005.4    6970.2   18975.6            36.7      16.2
B. Furniture and Equipment
1.. furniture                        1.1        1.1        2.3        1517.8    1517.8    3035.7           50.0        2.6
2. Medical Equipment                  1.4       5.7        7.1        1880.7    7475.4    9356.1           79.9        8.0
3. Odontotogical Equipment           0.3        1.1        1.3         355.2    1420.9    1776.1           80.0        1.5
4. Computer Equipment                 0.1       1.2        1.3         186.4    1545.7    1732.1           89.2        1.5
.............. ............................................. .  .................... ;...................--------------------....... .. 
Sub-Total                                3.0       9.1       12.0        3940.1   11959.8   15899.9            75.2       13.6
C. Vehicles                              0.6.      0.8        1.3         784.4      99t.t    I M  .5          55.8        1.5
D. Studies & Tech.Assistance
1. Studies                            1.5       1.5        3.0        2043.6    1943.4    3987.0           48.7        3.4
2. Consultants                        4.7       1.6        6.4        6262.6    2137.4    8400.0           25.4        7.2                                                   1
.... ............ .. ......... ...    ................ .. ............   .... ... . ........
Sub-Total                                6.3        3.1       9.4        8306.2    4080.8   12387.0            32.9       10.6
E. Public Campaigns                      0.9        0.6        1.6       1250.4      857.1    2107.5           40.7        1.8
F. Training
1. Training Events                   5.6        0.6        6.2        7452.9      780.2    8233.0           9.5        7.0
2. Training Materials                 0.1       0.3        0.4         118.8      356.4      475.2          75.0       0.4
.    .........   .......... ----------------........ .....-....--------.-......-------------........--------------....------..... 
Sub-Total                                5.7        0.9       6.6        7571.7    1136.6    8708.3            13.1        7.4
C. Incentivos                            3.1        0.0       3.1        4158.4        0.0    4158.4            0.0        3.5
H. Purchasing Agents & Audit             0.1        1.3       1.4          91.1    1717.5    1808.6            95.0        1.5
..-  - - -  - -- - - - -  - -    - .  ----   -- - - -- - - - -- - - -   -----..----......-----------..... .. . .... ...
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  28.9       21.0      49.9       38107.6   27713.1   65820.7            42.1      56.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
........... .................... 
A. Human Resources
1. Salaries                         21.6        0.0       21.6       28501.7       38.6   28540.3            0.1      24.4
B. edical Inputs & Supplies              3.9        4.7       8.6        5165.4    6222.4   11387.8            54.6        9.7
C. food Program                          2.5        0.6       3.1        3274.4      818.6    4093.0           20.0        3.5
D. Maintenance
1. Civit Work Maintenance             0.5       0.1        0.6         629.8      143.3      773.1          18.5       0.7
2. Equipment Maintenance              2.9       0.3        3.2        3835.9      385.8    4221.6            9.1       3.6
3. Vehicle Maintenance                0.4       0.0        0.4         510.3        0.0      510.3           0.0       0.4
Sub-Total                                3.8        0.4       4.2        4976.0      529.1    5505.0            9.6        4.7
E. Other Operating Costs                 1.1        0.3        1.4       1405.8      393.0    1798.9           21.8        1.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   32.8       6.1       38.9       43323.2    8001.7   51325.0            15.6      43.8
..-  -    ,___----------_----_____-_  _ -__ ----------*----------------  -------------------- D 
Total BASELINE COSTS                    61.7       27.1      88.7       81430.9   35714.8  117145.7            30.5      100.0                                                 O  W
Physical Contingencies                0.8       0.9        1.6        1021.9    1147.2    2169.1            52.9        1.9
Price Contingencies                   8.3       3.5       11.8       11020.8    4598.4   15619.2            29.4       13.3
0  I
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    70.8      31.4      102.2       93473.6   41460.5  134934.0            30.7      115.2
===================_==========    =============_================   ========= ======= =4>



- 217 -                                                              Annex 14
Page 3 of 4
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT-HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Suwnary Account by Project Component
USM
POLICY&t                         Physical               Price
BASIC                    BASIC    NST.STRE                        Contingencies          Contingencies
HEALTH    NUTRITIO  SANITATI   NGTHENIN                          .................................
CARE           N          ON            G          Total            X      Amount         X    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction                            5.0         0.0          6.6          0.0        11.7          5.7         0.7      11.5          1.3
2. Rehabilitation                              2.0          0.0         0.7          0.0          2.7         8.8         0.2      12.8          0.3
............................................................................................
Sub-total                                       7.1          0.0          7.3         0.0         14.4         6.2          0.9      11.8         1.7
B. Furniture and Equipment
1. Furniture                                   2.3          0.0         0.0          0.0         2.3          5.0         0.1      15.3          0.4
2. Medical Equipment                           7.1          0.0         0.0          0.0          7.1         5.0          0.4     14.7          1.0
3. Odontological Equipment                     1.3          0.0         0.0          0.0          1.3         5.0          0.1     14.4          0.2
4. Computer Equipment                          0.0          0.0          0.0         1.3          1.3         5.0          0.1      13.6         0.2
.................. ......... ...............................*. .................... ........................................ .....................
Sub-total                                      10.7          0.0          0.0         1.3         12.0         5.0          0.6      14.6         1.8
C. Vehicles                                     0.8          0.0          0.5         0.0          1.3         5.0          0.1      11.2         0.2
D. Studies & Tech.Assistance
1. Studies                                     0.5          0.4         0.7          1.3         3.0          0.9         0.0        7.8         0.2
2. Consultants                                 0.7          0.0          1.4         4.2          6.4         0.0          0.0     11.2          0.7
.................... ................................................... ..............................
Sub-total                                        1.2         0.4          2.2         5.6          9.4         0.3          0.0      10.1         0.9
E. Public Campaigns                             0.6          1.0          0.0         0.0          1.6          1.9         0.0      11.8         0.2
F. Training
1. Training Events                             3.2          0.4         0.7          1.9         6.2          0.0         0.0      12.1          0.8
2. Training Materials                          0.4          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.4         5.0          0.0      14.3         0.1
,............................................................. ..................... ..................................... .................. .
Sub-total                                       3.6          0.4          0.7          1.9         6.6         0.3          0.0      12.2         0.8
G. Incentivos                                   3.1          0.0          0.0         0.0          3.1         0.0          0.0      11.8         0.4
H. Purchasing Agents & Audit                    0.0          0.0          0.0         1.4          1.4         0.0          0.0       9.1         0.1
Total  INVESTMENT COSTS                        27.2          1.8         10.7        10.1         49.9         3.3          1.6      12.1         6.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Human Resources
1. Salaries                                   21.0          0.1         0.0          0.4        21.6          0.0          0.0     15.0          3.2
B. Medical Inputs & Supplies                    8.0          0.6          0.0         0.0          8.6          0.0         0.0      13.7          1.2
C. Food Program                                 0.0          3.1          0.0         0.0          3.1         0.0          0.0      14.2          0.4
D. Maintenance
1. Civil Work Maintenance                      0.6          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.6         0.0          0.0      16.6         0.1
2. Equipment Maintenance                       2.7          0.0          0.3         0.1          3.2         0.0          0.0      18.4         0.6
3. Vehicle Maintenance                         0.4          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.4         0.0          0.0      17.8         0.1
............................................................................................
Sub-total                                       3.7          0.0          0.3         0.1          4.2          0.0         0.0      18.1          0.8
E. Other Operating Costs                         0.0         0.0          0.6          0.7         1.4          0.0         0.0      12.2          0.2
......... ................ ....... ............. ..... ........ .. ............ .............................................................. .............
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          32.9          3.8          0.9          1.3        38.9          0.0         0.0      14.9          5.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                           oO.0          5.7         11.7        11.4         88.7          1.9         1.6      13.3        11.8
Physical Contingencies                        1.2          0.0         0.4          0.1          1.6
Price Contingencies                           8.6          0.7         1.2          1.3        11.8          1.7         0.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                            69.8          6.4         13.2        12.8       102.2           1.8         1.8      11.6        11.8
Taxes                                         2.9          0.0         3.3          0.3         6.5          4.4         0.3
Foreign Exchange                             20.6          1.4         3.9          5.5        31.4          3.1         1.0
........................ ............... ...................................................................................
Values Scated by 1000000.0 6/8/1992 19:11



ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL SECTOR'PROJECT-HEALTN AND NUTRITION
USS
Sum ary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                          Foreign Exchange
01       02         03        04       05        06        07    Total          X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...._.__...........
A. Civil Works
1. New Construction               0.3       1.3       3.1       3.0       3.0       0.9       0.0      11.7        37.1       4.3
2. Rehabilitation                  0.1       0.3       0.6      0.7       0.6       0.3       0.1       2.7        35.0       0.9
SLb-total                             0.4       1.7       3.6      3.7       3.6       1.2       0.2      14.4        36.7       5.3
B. Furniture and Equipment
1. Furniture                      0.0       0.2        0.2      0.4       0.7       0.5       0.2       2.3        50.0       1.1
2. Medical Equipment               0.4       0.6       0.7       1.3      2.2        1.3      0.7       7.1        79.9       5.7
3. Odontological Equipnent         0.0       0.1       0.2       0.2       q.4      0.2       0.1       1.3        80.0       1.1
4. Computer Equipment              0.1       0.2       0.4       0.0       f.1       0.5      0.1       1.3        89.2       1.2
Sub-total                             0.5       1.1       1.4       2.0                 2.6       1.2     12.0        75.2       9.1
C. Vehicles                           0.0       0.4       0.2       0.1        .       0.1       0.1       1.3        55.8       0.8
D. Studies S Tech.Assistance
1. Studies                         0.4       1.3       0.5       0.1       0.6      0.1       0.1       3.0        48.7       1.5
2. Consultants                     0.7       1.0       1.2       1.1       0.9      0.7       0.7       6.4        25.4       1.6
Sub-total                             1.1       2.3       1.7       1.2       1.6       0.8      0.8       9.4        32.9       3.1
E. Pubtlfc Campaigns                  0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.4       0.2      0.1       1.6        40.7       0.6
F. Training
1. Training Events                 0.4       0.7       1.4       1.2       1.1      0.8       0.7       6.2         9.5       0.6
2. Training Materials              0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.4        75.0       0.3
Sub-totat                             0.4       0.8       1.5       1.3       1.2       0.8      0.7       6.6        13.1       0.9
C.  Ircentivos                        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       3.1         0.0       0.0
H. Purchasing Agents & Audit          0.2       0.3       0.3       0.2       0.1      0.1       0.1       1.4        95.0       1.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                3.1       7.2       9.5       9.3      10.9      6.2       3.7      49.9        42.1      21.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
1. Human Resources
1. Salaries                       0.7        1.7       2.4      3.3       4.4       6.2       3.0      21.6         0.1       0.0
J. Nedical Inputs & Supplies          0.4       0.8       1.3       1.4       1.7       1.8      1.1       8.6        54.6       4.7
K. Food Program                       0.1       0.3       0.4       0.4       0.7      0.7       0.4       3.1        20.0       0.6
L. Maintenance
1. Civil Work Maintenance          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.2       0.6        18.5       0.1
2. Equipment Maintenance           0.0       0.1       0.2      0.4       0.6       0.9       1.1       3.2         9.1       0.3
3. Vehicle Maintenance             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.4         0.0       0.0
Sub-total                             0.0       0.1       0.3      0.5       0.7       1.1       1.4       4.2         9.6       0.4
H. Other Operating Costs              0.0       0.2       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.1       0.1       1.4        21.8       0.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1.4       3.0      4.7       5.9       7.9      10.0       6.0      38.9        15.6       6.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                  4.5      10.3      14.2      15.1      18.7     16.2       9.7      88.7        30.5      27.1
Physical Contingencies             0.1       0.2       0.3      0.3       0.4       0.2       0.1       1.6        52.9       0.9
Price Contingencies                0.0       0.4       1.1       1.8      3.0       3.2       2.4      11.8        29.4       3.5
OQ :
Total PROJECT COSTS                   4.6      10.9      15.6      17.2     22.1      19.7      12.1    102.2         30.7      31.4                             0 0
Taxes                              0.2       0.9       1.2       1.4       1.8      0.6       0.4       6.5         0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                   1.5      3.8       5.1       5.4       7.5       5.3       2.9      31.4       100.0      31.4                             0 4
-----    --.--    -..-.--    -.--.-.----    -.---.-    -.--    -.-    .-    -.-    -.    .-    .------    -.    .--    ..    ------------------------------------------------------



- 219 -                             ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-
Bank          Quarter       Disbursed                 Disb. as       Balance
Piscal Year        Ending        During       Cumulative    % of           of
Quarter        Amount      Total        Loan
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-
93       Dec.  31, 1992         6.0 a/         6.0                     64.0
March 31, 1993         0.5            6.5                     63.5
June  3C. 1993         1.0            7.5       11            62.5
94       Sept. 30, 1993         1.5            9.0                     61.0
Dec.  31, 1993         1.5           10.5                     59.5
March 31, 1994         2.0           12.5                     57.5
June  30, 1994         2.0           14.5       21            55.5
95       Sept. 30, 1994         2.0           16.5                     53.5
Dec.  31, 1994         2.0           18.5                     51.5
March 31, 1995         3.0           21.5                     48.5
June  30, 1995         3.0           24.5       35            45.5
96       Sept. 30, 1995         3.0           27.5                     42.5
Dec.  31, 1995         3.0           30.5                     39.5
March 31, 1996         3.0           33.5                     36.5
June  30, 1996         3.0           36.5       52            33.5
4j7      Sept. 30, 1996         4.0           40.5                     29.5
Dec.  31, 1996         4.0           44.5                     25.5
March 31, 1997         4.0           48.5                     21.5
June  30, 1997         4.0           52.5       75            17.5
98       Sept. 30, 1997         3.0           55.5                     14.5
Dec.  31, 1997         3.0           58.5                     11.5
March 31, 1998         2.0           60.5                      9.5
June  30, 1998         2.0           62.5       89             7.5
99       Sept. 30, 1998         2.0           64.5                      5.5
Dec.  31, 1998         2.0           66.5                      3.5
March 31, 1999         1.5           68.0                      2.0
June  30, 1999         1.5           69.5       99             0.5
00       Sept. 30, 1999         0.5           70.0       100            0.0
a/  Includes Special Account deposit of US$6.0 million and a portion of retroactive
financing of up to US$5.0 million for eligible expenditures incurred after
January, 1992.



- 220 -                                 ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the
Category               Loan Allocated                % of Expenditures
(Expressed in                   to be Financed
Dollar Equivalent)
1. Civil Works                           9,000,000            60%
2. Vehicles                              1,500,000            100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
other Equipment and Furniture        11,000,000            (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Technical Assistance (including    14,000,000              100%
purchasing agents and audits)
Studies, Staff Training and
Training Materials
4. Public Campaigns                      1,500,000            100%
5. Incentives                            3,500,000            100%
6. Medical Inputs and Supplies           5,000,000            100% until the aggregate
reaches US$1.2 million, 60%
until the aggregate reaches
US$4.0 million, and 20% for
the remainder
7. Operating Coats (including           12,500,000            100% until the aggregate
incremental salaries, O&M                               reaches US$2.5 million, 60%
of buildings and equipment,                             until the aggregate reaches
and travel expenses and office                          US$10.0 million, and 20% for
supplies)                                               the remainder
8. Food program and distribution         2,000,000            100% until the aggregate
reaches US$0.5 million, 60%
until the aggregate reaches
US$1.5 million, and 20% for
the remainder
6. PPF advance                           1,072,000
7. Unallocated                           8,928,000
Total                                70,000,000



HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT
PROGRAM
Investment Program and Proposed Financing with IDB participation
. .................................... .......................................................................... .................. ........
World Bank       IDB      Government      lotal
Financing    Financing   Financing
,.................... ....................................................... ........
INWSTNENT COSTS
................
Civil Works                                   11.3         5.3          11.1        27.7
Furniture, Equipment. and Vehicles            13.9         6.8           3.6        24.3
Studies, T.A. (including purchasing           14.3         7.5           0.0        21.7
agents and audits), lraining
and Training Materials
Public Campaigns                               2.4         0.0           0.0         2.4
Incentives                                    4.3          1.3           0.3         6.0
Subtotal                                46.2         20.9          15.1        82.1                                                    N
RECURRENT COSTS
.....  . ......
Operating Costs Including                     14.5         7.0          30.7        52.2
salaries, OtH, end supplies
Pharmaceuticals and Nedical Supplies           7.0         2.5          10.4        19.9
Food Products and Supplements                  2.3         0.7           2.8         S.8
Subtotal                                23.8         10.2         43.9         77.9
TOTAL                                   70.0         31.0          59.0       160.0
X financed                                44           19            37         100
OQZ
Ft



- 223 -                        Annex 17
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
SECOND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Supervision Plan
Timinc           Staff Weeks                Staffina
CY1992           20 weeks                   Bank resources (10 weeks):
-Task manager (3 weeks)
-PHN specialist (3 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (2 weeks)
-Implementation/operatior.
specialist (1 week)
-Other --not yet specified
(1 week)
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 weeks)
-Health planning (1 weeks)
-Health economist (2 weeks)
-Water and sanitation (4 weeks)
-Drugs/supply systems (2 weeks)
CY1993           45 weeks                   Bank resources (25 weeks):
-Task manager (8 weeks)
-PHN specialist (8 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (3 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (6 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 weeks)
-Health planning (1 weeks)
-Health economist (2 weeks)
-Family planning (1 week)
-Water and sanitation (8 weeks)
-Management development specialist
(I weeks)
-Equipment specialist (2 weeks)
-Information systems (2 weeks)
-Drugs/supply systems (1 week)
-Medical education (1 weeks)



- 224 -                          Annex  17
Page 2 of 3
CY1994           40  weeks                  Bank resources (25 weeks):
-Task manager (8 weeks)
-PHN specialist (8 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (3 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (6 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 weeks)
-Health planning (1 weeks)
-Health economist (1 weeks)
-Health systems (1 week)
-Water and sanitation (7 weeks)
-Management development specialist
(1 weeks)
-Information systems (1 weeks)
-Drugs/supply systems (1 week)
-Medical education (1 week)
CY1995           37 weeks                   Bank resources (20 weeks):
-Task manager (7 weeks)
-PHN specialist (6 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (3 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (4 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs
(trhough bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 week)
-Health planning (1 week)
-Health economist (1 week)
-Health systems (1 week)
-Water and sanitation (10 weeks)
-Management development specialist
(1 weeks)
-Drugs/supply system (1 weeks)
-Information systems (1 weeks)
CY1996           35 weeks                   Bank resources (20 weeks):
-Task manager (7 weeks)
-PHN specialist (6 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (3 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (4 weeks)



- 225 -                        Annex  17
Page 3 of 3
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 week)
-Health systems (1 week)
-Health economist (. week)
-Water and sanitation (a weeks)
-Management development specialist
(I week)
-Drugs/supply systems (1 week)
-Information systems (1 weeks)
-Medical education (1 weeks)
CY1997           31 weeks                  Bank resources (18 weeks):
-Task manager (7 weeks)
-PHN specialist (6 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (2 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (3 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 weeks)
-Health systems (1 weeks)
-Health economist (1 weeks)
-water and sanitation (6 weeks)
-Management development specialist
(1 weeks)
-Drugs/supply systems (l week)
-Medical education (1 week)
-Information systems (1 week)
CY1998           24 weeks                  Bank resources (15 weeks):
-Task manager (6 weeks)
-PHN specialist (4 weeks)
-Nutrition specialist (2 weeks)
-Implementation/operation
specialist (3 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs
(through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation):
-Primary health care (1 week)
-Health systems (1 week)
-Health economist (1 week)
-Water and sanitation (5 weeks)
-Drugs/supply systems (l week)



- 227 -                                 Annex 18
Page 1 of 5
WORKING PAPERS AND LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
A. Workina Paoers
NSP-OPS/OMS-BIRF. 1991. Fortalecimiento y am=liacion de los servicios basicos
de salud en el Ecuador: documento central.
MSP-OPS/OS-BIRD. 1991. Fortalecimiento v amoliacion de los servicios basicos
de salud en el Ecuador: annexes for each comonent of the vrolect:
(i) Basic Health Care Component
- Incentivos para el personal
- Manual de participacion social y voluntariado
- Guia para la atencion extramural
- Capacidad resolutiva de las unidades y areas de salud
- Produccion y productividad de los servicios y plantillas
de personal segun tipo de unidad
- Actividades de apoyo a la coordinacion interprogramatica
* Planificacion familiar
* Colera
* Doc
* Tuberculosis
- Modulo de Programacion funcional de recurso fisico
- Costos del personal requerido
- Medicamentos:
* Recuperacion de costos
* Suministro de medicamentos
(ii) Nutrition:
- Educacion alimentaria nutricional y provision social
- Control de crecimiento y vigilancia nutricional
- Complementacion alimentaria
- Poblaciones objetivo del componente nutrition
- Poblaciones objetivo y beneficiarios de la complementacion
alimentaria, calculo de raciones y costos de los alimentos
- Revision de las actividades de control de las deficiencias de
IODO
- Bstudio de programas de complementacion alimentaria en el Ecuador
- Proyecto Ecuador 4463/PMA
- Normas de complementacion alimentaria
- Normas de tratamiento del nino desnutrido
- Estudio para prefactibilidad de conversion de planta procesadora
de alimentos
- Ley de creacion del FONIN
- Estudio de monitoreo del estado nutricional del hierro
- Estudio sobre vitamina A
- Control de crecimiento y vigilancia
- Sistema de informacion del bajo peso
- Presupuesto general estimado en dolares
- Evaluacion del componente nutricion
- Mecanismo de coordinacion con el CONDE
- Dotacion de balanzas
- Control del embarazo
- Uso de medios masivos de comunicacion
- Organizacion y actividades de los equipos de salud
- Normas de educacion alimentaria para el personal de salud



- 228 -                                 Annex 18
Page 2 of 5
- Presupuesto lactancia materna
- Presupuesto micronutrientes
- Presupuesto de complementacion alimentaria
- CAP para capacitacion al personal de salud en control de
crecimiento
- Actividades de capacitacion en control de crecimiento
- Mercado de leches maternizadas
- Informe de consultoria Lcda. Alexandra Praun
(iii) Safe Water and Basic Sanitation:
- Analisis y evaluacion de la situacion de las comunidaded rurales
del Ecuador en relacion al servicio de agua potable,
funcionamiento de los sistemas de subminitro y a la capacidad de
gestion tecnica, administrativa-financiera de las juntas
administradoras de agua potable. Formulacion de estrategias,
politicas y mecanismo para mejorar y ampliar la cobertura del
servicio
(iv) Institutional Strengthening:
- Manual de tesoreria para areas de salud
- Sistema de informacion administrativa
- Manual para el analisis y uso de la informacion en el nivel
provincial
- Manual para el analisis y uso de la informacion en el nivel de
area
- Programa de capacitacion para la implantacion de los sistemas
administrativos de apoyo en areas de salud y direcciones
provinciales de salud
- Regimen de incentivos y motivacion para equipos de salud locales
- Subsistema de presupesto para areas de salud
- Manual de administracion presupuestaria para areas de salud
- Manual de indicadores sobre produccion, rendimiento y costs
- Manual especifico de contabilidad para areas de salud
- Manual de programacion local
- Criterios para la asignacion de recursos financieros a los
programas de salud
- Planificacion presupuestaria
- Recursos humanos y seis annexos
- Manual de administracion de recursos humanos
- Manual de procedimientos de suministros para areas de salud
- Sistemas de informacion y vigilancia epidemiologica
(v) Detailed project costs
B. Documents Reviewed for Lessons Learned
Berg, Alan. 1987. Malnutrition: what can be done. Baltimore M.D.: Johns
Hopkins University Press.
Briscoe, John. 1987. A role for water supolv and sanitation in the child
survival revolution. PAHO Bulletin 21(2), 93-105.
Briscoe, John and David de Ferranti. 1988.  Water for rural communities:
helping neople helm themselves. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
Churchill, Anthony A. et al. 1987. Rural water suM=lv and sanitation, time for
a chanas. Washington D.C.: World Bank Discussion Paper.



- 229 -                                   Annex 18
Page 3 of 5
Levinson, F. James. 1991. Addressina malnutrition in Africa: low-cost program
nossibilities for aovernment agencies and donors. Washington D.C.: World
Bank.
Musgrove, Philip. 1989. Fighting malnutrition: an evaluation of Brazilian food
and nutrition programs. Washington D.C.: World bank Discussion Paper.
Pfefferman, Guy P. and Charles C. Griffin. 1989. Nutrition and health programs
in Latin America: targeting social expenditures. Washington D.C.: World
Bank in association with the International Center for Economic growth.
Subbarao, K. 1989. Imgroving nutrition in India: policies and programs and
their imDact. Washington D.C.: World Bank Discussion Paper.
World Bank. 1989. Bangladesh. Second Pooulation and Family Health Proiect
(Loan No: 0921) Comoletion Renort. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1983. Botswana. Francistown Urban Development Proiect (Loan No:
0471) Completion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1987. Brazil. Greater Sao Paulo Sewerage Collection and Treatment
Proiect (Loan No: 1525) Com=letion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Brazil. Medium-sized Cities Proiect (Loan No: 1720) Audit
Renort. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Brazil. Multistate Water Sunolv and Sewerage Proiect (Loan
No: 1970) Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Brazil. Northwest reaion Ineeorated Develogment Prooram
Health Proiect (Loan No: 2061) Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World
Bank.
World Bank. 1987. Brazil. Northeast Water Sunolv and Sewerage Project (Loan
No: 1656) Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Brazil. Nutrition Research and Develo=ment Proiect (Loan HQ*
1302)_ ;mpletion Renort. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1988. Colombia. Intearated Nutrition Imnrovement Proiect (Loan No:
1487) Audit Remort. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Dominican Reoublic. Ponulation and Family Health Project
(Loan No: 1325) Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1987. Guinea. Conakrv Water Supilv and Sanitation Proiect (Loan
No; 0870) Comwletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. India. Bombay Water Suoolv and Seweraqe Proiect (Loan No:
0390) Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1982. India. Calcutta Urban Develooment Prolect (Loan No: 0427L
Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.



Annex 18
- 230 -                                   Page 4 of.5
World Bank. 1982. India. Povulation Prolect (Loan No: 0312) Audit Report.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. India. Second Population Pro2hct (Loan No: 0981) Audit
Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. India. Tamil Nadu Intearated Nutrition Proiect (Loan No:
1003) Com=letion Revort. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1980. India. Tamil Nadu Intearated Nutrition Proiect - Staff
Appraisal Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Indonesia. Nutrition Development Project (Loan No: 1373)
Completion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Provincial Health Project (Loan No: 2235) Completion Report.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Indonesia. Second Population Project (loan No: 1472) Audit
Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Indonesia. Second Urban Development Project (Loan No: 1336)
Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Isreal. Sewerage Project (Loan No: 0869) Audit Re2ort.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Jamaica. Second Population PrQjec% (loan No: 1284) Audit
Report. Washington D.C.: World bank.
World Bank. 1981. Kenya. Population Proiect (Loan No: 0468) Audit Report.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Korea. Population Proiect (Loan No; 1774) CompLetion Report.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Malaysia. Kuala Lumoar Seweraae Protect (Loan No: 1213)                      a
Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank
World Bank. 1986. Nenal. Water SuPplV and Seweraae Project (Loan No: 0704)
Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1988. Nicaraaua. Third Manacua Water Suoplv Project (Loan 1496)
Completion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1987. Paraauav. Rural Water SuMnlv Project (Loan No: 1502) Audit
Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Philippines. Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Loan
No: 1814) Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bauk.
World Bank. 1986. Philippines. Provincial Cities Water Supplv Project (Loan
No: 1415) Audit Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.



- 231 -                                   Annex 18
Page 5 of 5
World Bank. 1989. Philioppines. Third Urban Develooment Proiect (Loan No: 1821)
Comoletion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1984. Tunisia. Ponulation Proiect (Loan No: 0238) Audit Renort.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Tunisia. Health and Population Project (Loan No: 2005)
Com=letion Report. Washington D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1984. Zaire. Water Supply Project (Loan No: 0625) Audit Renort.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.



~~~~ C OL 0 AA B I A
ESME      RAA L 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t torn Rocoms\n m,oroco
ESMERALDAS                            CARCHI-'  JJLCAN
Sci ...)IMBABUR
i   tS       f   a    _ ,   wEARRA    \   etCoto tho  I.ARR
J T l ! remondowpo  r~tob=;abA f                        ZLogoAiori
JAM                                        C                  lobonAn                                       i
Conbl       owriego  QUITO  Pib                                                     5Ioo,4f,o
MAN Io oe 7Soson s%clerde VJ   / gl/  !        {^tO;       /              N A  P O
B. d.-    !i< 
Pt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pubb      P  ~\PASTAZA
< r. ' '  o /   / rS   f  tVI       as                                        IL
/    e                   Ginolooo JECUADOR
-<       Gin.,        *                                       -RIMARY ROADS
_;;  .  ~   v:((<G   In,on2  2   _ Pooed
Ptj jOI                                       . ,f!,SECONDARY ROADS:
~ v                                    ,x,j *2;- )Cw/ Gedoouim%V RolrooPe
PHYSICAL REGIONS:
Si.o,.
j CAllff& /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/_ > <\ / ~~~~~~~~~~~Orient.
c..>    JA                                     ""ZAMORAf\                  _                Prooiol  odores
7                    i                 ZAMQRAH-- InlOrnoeir oAoMndorA
M.mm  Z.         mno       I       H CIo                                     40 g  M0  0    I
CHI,N/CH PEK20K0O -"I -METERS
P  E  R  U                                                                    _-,''----_                              _
j   oo,nbo                                                     800        



