Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23290-EC
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35100; SCL-3510A; SCPD-351OS; SCL-35101B)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 70 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 11: HEALTH AND NUTRITION (FASBASE)
12/19/200 1
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Peru and Ecuador
Human Development Sector NManagement Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/03/2001)
Currency Unit = USD
USD 1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = USD 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIREME
CARE                 International Relief and Development Organization
CEMEIM               Central Supply Facility (Centro Estatal de Medicamnentos e Insumos Medicos)
FAO                  Food Agency Organization
IESS                 Social Security Institute
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NGO                  Nongovernmental Organizations
PAHO                 Panamerican Health Organization
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF               United Nation's Children Fund
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ruth Levine/Michele Gragnolati



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 11: HEALTH AND NUTRITION (FASBASE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 13
6. Sustainability                                                                     14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 39
Annex 8: Examples of Publications (extracted from a larger body of publications)     40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007087                                      Project Ncame: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT I:
HEALTH AND NUTRITION (FASBASE)
Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati                          TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR T'lpe: Core ICR                                     Report Date: Decemnber 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Namne: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 11: HEALTH AND            L/C/TF Num7ber: CPL-35100;
NUTRITION (FASBASE)                                          SCL-351OA;
SCPD-3510S;
SCL-3510B
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
SectotAsubsector: I-IC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health; HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revisecl/Actual
PCD:   03/15/1991                             Effective: 05/07/1993        05/07/1993
Appraisal:  01/01/1992                               1?TR:                      11/04/1997
Approval:  07/21/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1999          06/30/2001
Bo rrow er/ilmlplemen)tinig Ageiic:  GOVT OF ECUADOR /MIN OF HEALTH
Oth/er Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
I ice P)residenft.   David de Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Coulntr y llaiMager:  Isabel Guerrero                          Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                               James W. Adams
Teami Leader at ICR:  Michele Gragnolati                       Bemardo Kugler
ICR Primary Author:  Evelyn Pesantez; Magdalene
Rosenmloller; Ruth E. Levine
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likcly, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ouitcomiie: S
Sustainabilit.: L
IlnStitutional Detvelopment Impact: SU
Bank Pelorrtnance. HS
Borrower Petfoi mance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qualitv at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Timiie: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the Social Development Il: Health and Nutrition Project (35 10-EC), which
were largely shared with its supplemental loan (3510-1-EC), were to: (a) expand basic health care,
nutrition and sanitation coverage to reach the poorest population groups; (b) improve quality of basic
health care services already provided to the poor; and (c) strengthen decision-making and management of
public institutions involved in the delivery of basic health, nutrition and sanitation programs.
The development objectives were realistic, and consistent with the priority needs in the health sector, as
well as the Government of Ecuador's strategy. The Bank correctly identified sector policy issues, and
addressed most of the main institutional and policy constraints in the design of the project. By including
water and sanitation, nutrition and basic health services within one project, the design demonstrated an
understanding of the multiple determinants of health. The implementation arrangements were consistent
with the country's capacity; in the case of the original loan, detailed commitments regarding
implemiientation were obtained from the Governmnent during appraisal and negotiation,
The development objectives were based on the Government's interest in transforming the health sector. At
the end of the 1980s, when the Government requested the Bank's assistance, health conditions in Ecuador
compared unfavorably with countries of similar per capita incomes in the region. The infant mortality rate,
w\hich had been stationary in the 1970s, had worsened in the 1980s as the country's economy suffered from
declining oil revenues. Prevalence of communicable diseases and malnutrition was high, partially as a
result of lack of access to safe water and basic health care.
The public response at the time was manifested principally through poorly implemented vertical programs,
suclh as nutrition programs that reached only 20 percent of the population and had a limited impact on the
most vulnerable groups. Health spending was relatively low (3.5 percent of GDP) and poorly allocated
across scrvices and populations groups. Health services were characterized by staffing imbalances and
weak managemenit, and the various institutions in the sector acted in an overly centralized yet
unicooi-diniated fashion.
The Government recognized the severity of the situation and developed initial plans developed at the policy
level. By the end of the 1980s, after a long period of political stability, the concept of "basic health
services" - including, in the Ecuador case, decentralization and a primary care approach - had gained
political acceptance, but had not yet been implemented on a wide scale. Thus, the project (known in
Spanish as Fortalecimiziento y Ampliaci6n de Servicios Bcsicos de Salud, or FASBASE) was developed
between 1990 and 1992 to support the Government's efforts to strengthen basic health services, building on
substanitial political will but very limited implementation experience.
3.2 Revisel Objective:
The development objectives were not revised during implementation of the project. However, in 1999 a
supplenmental loan was developed as part of a broader Bank strategy to assist Ecuador in addressing the
social imipact of a major economic and social crisis. To this end, recognizing (and wishing to continue)
successes of the FASBASE project, the Bank and the Borrower extended the project by 19 months, and
increased the loan with a supplement of USS20 million. This supplementary project (known by its Spanish
namile, Pr-ovecto de Salud y Desar rollo, or PROSADE) was to help ensure full and effective completion of
the original project, and to mitigate health risks among the poor during the crisis that was driven by the El
Nino phenomenon, a drastic decline in economic activity that reduced Government revenue, and increased
debt service in 1999-2000.
-2 -



3.3 Original Comiponents:
The original project, financed with a US$70.8 million loan and USS3 1.4 million in national counterpart
funds, consisted of four components:
Component 1. Basic Health Care (US$60.0 million or 59 percent of total original project costs). This
component was designed to extend basic health service coverage to 2 million poor Ecuadoreans, through
(a) a cost-effective model of care based on health care teams at local facilities; (b) construction and
upgrading of facilities and provision of basic equipment; and (c) medical inputs, including essential drugs
on a cost recovery basis.
The activities under this component were designed to increase the capacity of primary health care services
to efficiently and appropriately address the main health problems faced by the vulnerable populations,
particularly those related to maternal and child health. Actions targeted to the poor, and especially to
families with high health risks, included prenatal, delivery and postpartum care; the promotion of
reproductive care and family planning services; child development (vaccination and nutrition monitoring
and supplementation); and prevention of waterborne and acute respiratory infections. Priority was to be
given to integration of health promotion (including outreach and community-based activities), disease
prevention, early detection and treatment interventions, and creation and strengthening of appropriate
referral systems. In this component, an improved network of local health service areas was to be organized
under a decentralized regime, with the aim of improving efficiency, effectiveness and access to basic health
services.
Physical infrastructure was to be improved through construction, furnishing, equipping and maintenance of
75 new health sub-centers, 8 health centers and 5 metropolitan centers; and upgrading, rehabilitation, repair
and maintenance of existing facilities, including 30 health sub-centers, 9 health centers and 12 local
hospitals.
It was expected that under this component about 1,600 personnel would be added to the staffing at basic
health services facilities. The incremental staff were to be financed initially under the loan and then
gradually with national funds. The loan was to provide pre-service and in-service training, training
equipment and materials, as well as preparation, printing and distribution of manuals.
Pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies were to be provided based on the country's basic drug list,
using a central procurement agent; assistance was to be provided to improve selection, procurement, quality
control, stock management, cost recovery, and prescription and dispensing practices. Alternative
procurement procedures were to be studied.
Component 2. Nutrition (US$5.7 million, or 6 percent of total original project costs). This component
sought to address the twin problems of poor health and malnutrition, particularly among children under 3,
and pregnant women and lactating mothers. Activities included: (a) nutrition education and promotion to
chanige nutritional behavior, including training for health professionals and the development of
nutrition-related messages and materials for mass media campaigns; (b) growth monitoring and counseling
to thlose in need; and (c) provision of food supplementation and micronutrients through a pilot food
supplenint!-tion scheme, which ultimately was to be replicated nationwide. In addition, a feasibility study
was included under this component to determine whether food commodities could be fortified with
necessary micronutrients.
-3 -



Component 3. Basic Sanitation and Safe Water (US$ 11.7 million, or 11 percent of total original project
costs). This component was to complement the provision of basic health care and nutrition by assisting the
Ministry of Health (MOH) to improve access to safe water and sanitation facilities (mostly latrines). Pilot
projects covering 10 percent of the targeted population were to be implemented, and were to include strong
community participation for enhanced system sustainability. Pilots were designed to test decentralized
implementation using different executing agencies and implementation schemes; the variants were to be
evaluated at midterm review, with the findings then to be applied during the remaining project time.
Water supply facilities and latrines were to be constructed for 165 communities, and 42 existing rural
water supply systems were to be upgraded. Provincial maintenance centers were to be established in the 6
provinces, and technical assistance and training was to be provided.
It was expected that the project would employ a cost recovery scheme, in which the key criterion for
selection of the communities would be their demand for services. Community promotion, organization and
health education program would assure the sustainability and effective use of the new facilities. The
technical assistance under this component was to be co-financed by UNDP.
Component 4. Sector Poliev and Institutional Strenrthenin2 (US$ 11.4 million, or II percent of total
original project costs). Activities under this component included (a) developing the institutional basis for
decentralization, including the establishment of budget programming and management information systems;
(b) staff development; and (c) studies devoted to improve inter-institutional coordination, cost recovery and
payment systems and hospital rehabilitation, as well as the impact evaluation of project activities.
Under this component, decentralized organizational arrangements were to be defined; budget programnming
systems were to be established; management information systems, administrative and operational
instruments, and standardized procedures and norms were to be developed; and in-service training for
MOH staff was to be provided.
Staff development under this component implied the identification of staff reassignments in managerial and
administrative areas, the development of personnel management systems, and the application of appropriate
salary scales. This was to be supported by in-service training of staff involved in administration,
management and finance. A long-ten-n continuing education program with universities and other specialized
institutions was intended to upgrade human resources.
For each of the few components, the activities financed were directly related to the development objectives,
as well as the implementing agencies' capacity, with some small exceptions. The components addressed
basic constraints to health status improvement in the country.
3.4 Rev ised Coinponents:
In response to implementation experiences, requests from the Government, and damage from natural
disasters, several of the original components were modified or redefined during implementation, and some
new ones were added with reallocation of funds. In addition, several new activities were initiated under the
supplemental loan, as described below.
The nutrition component was redefined in 1995 after both Borrower and Bank recognized that
implementation had advanced little during the first two years. In the redesign, activities were streamlined,
focusing essentially on supporting the national micronutrient program. Activities to support food
supplementation, fortification of basic food commodities and communication were consolidated under the
national program.
-4 -



In 1996, a new subcomponent under the Basic Health Care Component - the Emergency Care Netvork -
was created using a reallocation of US$ 1.2 million. The objectives of the new subcomponent were to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of emergency services in the cities of Quito, Guayaquil and
Cuenca, and to better coordinate emergency and referral systems. While the original request from the
Government had sought funding for isolated investments in ambulances and hospital infrastructure, this
subcomponent was ultimately designed to complement the Basic Health Services as a pilot project, creating
the necessary referral systems for emergency cases, coordinating pre-hospital interventions through a
communication and transportation system, training para-medic and medical teams in basic and advanced
life support systems, developing emergency care protocols and other quality assurance instruments, and
upgrading emergency departments in referral hospitals. The design was based on international best
practice, with support from Johns Hopkins University and the State of Maryland emergency care team, as
well as PAHO/WHO.
The Government requested a reallocation of project funds to mitigate the damage expected from the El
Nino phenomenon in 1997. The rapidly conceived US$13 million El Nifio Contingency Component had
as a general objective to prevent, control and relieve health problems of 7 million persons at risk living in
the areas affected by the natural disaster. Activities, described in a June 1998 amendment, included
epidemiological control (especially for dengue and malaria), repair and reconstruction of health care
facilities and water installations, and social communication.
Under the supplement, financed with a US$20.2 million loan and US$1.4 in counterpart funds, three
components (in addition to project monitoring and evaluation), were designed to continue and consolidate
much of the work of the original project, and to ensure a smooth transition to regular operations.
Supplemental Component 1. Health Care Emer-enev (US$13.3 million, or 62 percent of supplemental
project costs). This component included (a) improving the physical infrastructure of 220 health centers,
150 health posts, and 58 cantonal and 19 provincial hospitals (b) providing basic medication, tuberculosis
control, vaccination and micronutrients: and (c) providing complementary basic equipment to health
centers, and repairing health care service installation and basic water equipment.
Supplemental Component 2. Basic Sanitation and Safe Water (US$4.1 or 18 percent of supplemental
project costs). This component included (a) construction of 37 water systems and 200 hand pumps to
provide drinking water to about 35,000 inhabitants; and (b) construction of 3,000 latrines and 400 basic
sanitation units for a population of 20,000.
Supplemental Component 3. Malaria Control (US$3.0 or 14 percent of supplemental project costs).
This component included activities aimed at (a) the reduction of the malaria reservoir by increased early
diagnostic and treatment capabilities; (b) the reduction of malaria transmission through increased physical
protection from vectors (bed nets, etc.); and (c) vector reduction.
When the supplemental project was conceived, implementation capacity seemed very high. The
supplemental project continued the work of the original project, adding some small, well defined and well
prepared activities mainly in the areas of infrastructure of basic services, and water and sanitation. The
planned interventions were small and inexpensive but much needed; they promised a high impact on the
ground. Building on the positive and extensive experience of the implementing agency, a high degree of
success in the implementation seemed likely.
-5 -



3.5 Qtcalitv at Entry:
The project was designed before routine quality assessments were initiated, thus there is no QAG rating.
However, for the purposes of this report the project's quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. While the
program fit well with both Bank and Borrower strategies, and was appropriate to the institutional
capacities in Ecuador at the time.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.! Oi tcome/achiev eni)ent of objective:
The original project performed in a highly satisfactory manner. It achieved most of its objectives, and in
some components significantly surpassing original expectations, despite adverse conditions during
implementation. Contextual factors included a high degree of political instability during the 1993-2001
period, a deep social and economic crisis, war and guerrilla conflicts in the southern and northem borders,
and natural disasters.
In its original phase, the project strengthened the delivery and management of basic health services by (a)
supporting the establishment and organizational development of 38 decentralized health areas, which served
as a pilot for the adoption of constitutional reforms and other legal measures related to decentralization in
the sector; (b) carrying out a participatory community model in water and sanitation investments, which
has subsequently been adopted as national policy and supported in another Bank-financed project; (c)
developing a legal and public/private framework to sustain the micronutrient fortification of main staples,
and micronutrient supplementation as a cost-effective approach to reduce the high prevalence of anemia,
v itamini A deficiencies and oral lhealth problems among poor children and pregnant women; and (d)
pioneering an integral 91 1 pre-hospital and hospital emergency medical care services network in the three
major cities of the country, financed and managed by municipalities or other key local partners.
In part because of its flexibility during implementation, the project succeeded in expanding access to basic
health care, nutrition and sanitation services for a population of close to 3.2 million people (compared to
the 2 million expected in the StaffAppraisal Report) across the poorest nural and peri-urban regions in 15
provinces of Ecuador, which wvere selected on the basis of unmet basic needs (Also see Annex 1). Although
direct attribution is impossible, it is reasonable to infer that the health system improvements sponsored by
the project, and adopted in non-project areas as well, contributed to improvements in health status observed
durillg the period of implementation. Infant mortality fell from 40 per 1,000 life births in 1990 to less than
30 per 1,000 in 1999 - in line with other countries of the region - and correspondingly life expectancy at
birth rose from 60 years in 1990 to 70 in 1999.
Unlike the original project, however, the supplemental loan had an unsatisfactory perfornance. It only
reached a limited portion of the targeted population, with investments that fell short of appraisal
expectations by nearly 50 percent. This can be attributed primarily to the acute political and institutional
crisis after the 2000 presidential coutp d'etat. The achievement of objectives was affected after the coup by
the replacement of health authorities and the project team at the central level with individuals who had no
institutional memory and lacked program management experience. This virtually halted project
implementation for a year. Also affecting supplemental loan were deficiencies in the administration and
control of the supplemental project and deep changes in the macroeconomic policies, together with greater
political and social instability
Although the original and the supplemental loan shared common development objectives and activities, the
implementation experiences were so different that the results of each loan are described separately in the
- 6 -



sections that follow.
4.2 Ouitputts by components:
Component 1. Basic Health Care
Highly Satisfactory. The original project made important contributions to the development of a new
primary health care model, a first step toward full implementation of a policy that was introduced at the
end of the 1 980s, just before project's appraisal. In addition, it designed and implemented a planning
methodology for organizing all public health facilities into "health areas" throughout the country. This was
instrumental for (a) planning and rationalizing new health facilities; (b) providing the geographic basis for
administrative and financial deconcentration in the public health system; and (c) establishing the basis for
reorganization of the health system, by attaching priority to primary care.
The component surpassed its infrastructure objectives by upgrading 63 percent more health facilities than
originally expected, for a total of almost 400 upgrades. Additionally, the project successfully resolved
difficulties with counterpart funds by mobilizing local funds - particularly in the form of in-kind
community contributions, labor and contributions from municipal governments under cofinancing
agreements - that prevented the slowdown of implementation.
The component supported the contracting of 539 professionals and technicians in the project's 39 health
areas, and contributed to their training through internships, post-graduate courses in epidemiology, health
services administration, health care financing and family medicine. In addition, it trained 113 new health
auxiliaries. It included several universities for in-service training efforts.
As a result of a shortage of central counterpart funds, the human resources requirements were adjusted
during the course of the project to bring them more in line with the Government's fiscal capacity. With the
formulation of a new basic staffing model, the need for new health staff in project areas was reduced by 50
percent from an estimated 1,600 at appraisal to about 700, without affecting service performance.
In tenns of staff development, the project exceeded original plans, training more than 13,500 personnel in
healtlh promotion, provision of care, planning and primary level administration and services management.
This created a critical mass of human resources, which constitute the potential foundation for deeper
reforms, and a broader perspective about public health.
Under the medical supply subcomponent, cost recovery schemes were implemented in collaboration with a
USAID project focused on the development and/or strengthening of local capacity for managing the
procurement, storage and dispensing of drugs. Additionally the project supported reform of the national
drug procurement system (the old centralized and ineffective CEMEIM was eliminated by Ministerial
Decree in 1999 on the basis of a joint FASBASE/MSH/USAID assessment that was prepared in the
mid-1990s and that outlined several reform options), and the development of a new compact drug
management unit to apply more efficient purchasing and distribution strategies. Although equipment and
medical supplies were provided to 216 health units according to actual stock needs, there is a chronic
concern about availability of funds to Support an equipment maintenance system.
Outcomes appear to have improved as a result of the project. In the local health areas receiving project
inputs (including staff, training, equipment, and others), services for pregnant women and young children
were fundamentally improved. The MOH reports up to 100 percent coverage of prenatal care in several
project areas, and large improvements in others. For example, in the project area of Yanuncay, prenatal
care utilization increased from 21 percent in 1993 to 88 percent in 2000. Similarly, between 1993 and
2000, immunization coverage of children under I increased dramatically: in one of the project areas
- 7 -



(Chimbacalle), from 17 to 94 percent; in another, from 44 to 96 percent. Improvements of a similar
magnitude are seen in other indicators (attendance at delivery, tetanus vaccination of pregnant women,
and cervical cancer screening). The capacity developed at the local level was manifested during the anti-
measles campaign - first launched with project financing in June 1994 and continued until 2000, and
followed up with surveillance activities supported by PAHO and UNICEF - which led to a significant
increase in measles immunization (now approaching 100 percent) and a corresponding decrease in
measles incidence. Other project support to the National Immunization Program, in the form of vaccines
and other medical inputs, contributed to Ecuador's impressive achievements in control of vaccine-
preventable diseases: last year, the country had no reported cases of measles or polio, and only 2 reported
cases of diphtheria among children under 5.
As might have been expected, there was considerable variation in the success of implementation across
regions. A December 2000 study found that 63 percent of the project areas showed very good progress in
terms of decision-making capacities, local and alternative management instruments, continuous
educationi, social participation, availability of infrastructure, equipment, drugs and medical supplies on a
cost-recovery basis, and human resources; 21 percent of health areas showed only a moderate
improvement; and 16 percent had only marginal improvement. Progress was affected by the considerable
diversity in cultural and demographic characteristics of the areas, which was correlated with variation in
their access to the local resources required to support the various elements of the project.
CoMpon7ent 2. Nutrition Coompontent
After an initial slow start and a subsequent change in focus, the nutrition component proved to be highly
satisfactory. This component had a high level political support, obtained national ownership from the
start, and coordinated well with other international agencies such as PAHO, UNICEF, USAID and FAO.
The national micronutrient committee included all stakeholders: national directorates, local health area
representatives, the Science and Technology Institute (STI), the communication, prevention and
protection departments of the MOH, and internationial organizations. Designated provincial coordinators
and teams responsible in each health unit fostered the timely implementation of this component.
The micronutrient program consisted of four subcomponents: (a) the supplementation strategy; (b)
fortification of food commiiodities; (c) national nutrition education; and (d) social communication. Vitamin
A wvas supplemented to children I to 3 years in high-risk communities, and at the national level to
childreni and post-partum womnen diagnosed with malnutrition. Iron was administered to pregnant women
and children under I. Flour was fortified with iron, in collaboration with industry, and based on a legal
disposition that was designed and promoted with project support.
Although attempts to fortify other staples were tested under this component (for example, sugar with
vitamin A, and salt with fluoride), such actions were not widely applied because of technological and
operational hurdles. Health personnel were trained in nutrition; and micronutrient laboratories were
stren,gthened with equipment, materials and reactive supplies for analysis. Together with UNICEF, mass
media social marketing campaigns were conducted.
There is a first indication of the impact of this component: from 1995 to 1998, Vitamin A deficiency
decreased from more than 15 percent to less than 10 percent, and the share of mothers with anemia
decreased from 50 percent to less than 40 percent. As of year 2000, and according to regular monitoring
of the flour industry by the STI, 90 percent of producers complied with the fortification norms.
Comitponzent 3. Basic Santitationi and Safe Water
The implementationl of this component was highly satisfactory. At project appraisal, Ecuador exhibited a
pronounced deficit in the provision of water and rural sanitation (62 percent of communities were without
potable water and 37 percent were devoid of sanitation infrastructure, representing 3.3 million people).
- 8 -



Included as a pilot project to test decentralized models in the supply of these services, and implemented
with the technical assistance of the Joint World Bank/UNDP Water and Sanitation Program, the
component systematized previous experiences in the public sector, adapted to the institutional reforms
and generated even more benefits than foreseen: 231 (vs. 158) studies were designed by the unit and the
Undersecretariat of the Ministry of Environmental Affairs, and 49 percent more water systems and 95
percent more latrines were constructed or repaired than planned. The infrastructure interventions
benefited a population of close to 190,000 poor in 235 rural communities of 7 provinces.
Beyond the physical outputs, the component was successful in validating an intervention methodology for
water and sanitation projects that included intensive social participation of the communities. Execution
was conceived of as a cycle of three strategic phases with the support of 102 specialized social
consultants: First, the pre-investment phase included social and technical studies to make participatory
diagnoses of the projects. It was accompanied by promotion activities and formation of community water
organizations. Second, once the feasibility and sustainability were assessed positively, the actual
investment phase followed, with the support of the users (often through in-kind contributions, and
volunteer labor). Investments were coupled with training programs for community leaders, water
operators, volunteer promoters and health education for community members. Third, the cycles were
closed with a post-investment phase, in which participatory evaluations of the experience took place in
each community, together with additional health education programs and complementary training for the
local administrative organizations to consolidate the community financing schemes and self-management
skills developed during the project.
The successful implementation of this three-phase methodology contributed to the long-term
sustainability of the water and sanitation investments. According to a technical audit, as of year 2000 all
water and sanitation projects developed since 1995 were fully operational and maintained by the
community under the administration of the local water organizations. Beneficiaries observed that there
has been an improvement in the health status of their families, with markedly lower levels of intestinal
infectionis and other illnesses in their children.
The component was also successful in carrying out a complete evaluation of its experience, which
together with other training manuals, guides, and important sector studies that were disseminated
constituted the basis for a new Bank-financed project in the water sector (Rural and Small Towns Water
Supply and Sanitation-PRAGUAS-Ln. 7035-EC).
Coiniponenti 4. Sector Policy anid Inistitiutional Strenzgthening Component
For political reasons not all objectives of this component were reached, but the achievements attained
justify a rating of satisfactory. Originally designed to be complementary to the basic health services, one
of the main achievements of this component was the design of operational tools to institutionalize the new
model of basic health care in the health areas. The component supported the development of a
methodology for the process of identification and rehabilitation in affected health areas. The component
financed continuous education workshops, scholarships and training for more than 13,500 public health
staff, primarily at the local levels.
The component also supported the design and implementation of a new budgeting and programming
system - a process that was later reinforced by the introduction of a computerized public integrated
financial management system, known as the SIGEF. With the assistance of this component, the MOH was
the first ministry to successfully pilot test the SIGEF and to formulate the public health budget in a
decentralized manner by province, health area, and health facility. This allowed the MOH for the first
time to provide complete and timely budgeting and accounting reports for 1999 and 2000.
-9-



Support was provided under this component for restructuring and consolidating the organization and
operation of the National Health Council, and for design of broad policy and institutional reform
proposals based on the general reform (1992 Public Budget Law, the 1993 Modernization of the State
Law, and the 1997 Decentralization Law). These proposals concerned the transfer of authority and
resources to municipalities for social sector management, particularly health services ownership,
financing and delivery. The new Constitution adopted by Ecuador in August 1998 incorporated some of
the reform proposals in the health sector, particularly those concerning the establishment of decentralized
health systems, the conversion of public hospitals into autonomous units, the targeting of subsidies to the
poor through the classification of users according to income level (as fully, partly and non-subsidized
users), and the integration of public and private providers for service delivery. These actions paved the
way for the implementation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms in the public health sector, partly
supported by a Bank operation the Health Services Modernization Project (Ln. 4342-EC, known as
MODERSA).
Several sector studies were developed under this component. These include investigations related to
resource allocation, user fees, cost recovery options, inter-institutional coordination between MOH and
Security Institute (IESS), institutional strengthening plans, human resources census, proposals for new
MOH management profiles, structural adjustments and the reduction of bureaucratic procedures, among
others.
Under a "shock strategy" in 1999, an integral management information system (MIS) was designed to
include voice and data local- and wide-area networks (LAN/WAN), telephony hardware and internet
services for data transportation; appropriate software license purchasing and application; as well as
training for managers, users and system administrators. A pilot test was conducted with the financing of
equipment and training for five provincial and central directorates and one local hospital, using
applications developed by PAHO, USAID/CARE and others, which proved the benefits of the MIS
design. Then, with a gradual and incremental implementation strategy, 13 provincial directorates, 17
hospitals, and other provincial and central offices were covered with LAN/WAN network installation, 4
telephony centers and internet service in the first implementation phase, resulting in the installation of
clinical and management applications, hardware and software in a total of 34 units located in the MOH,
provincial directorates, hospitals and health centers. Additionally, assistance was provided for the
implementation of one of the first virtual libraries in the region in coordination with BIREME/PAHO and
the STI.
Despite the considerable achievements in establishing the information systems, the MIS has not
functioned as intended: the LAN was designed but not fully implemented by project closure, and
therefore transfer arrangements had to be included in the MODERSA Project for finalization.
Emzergenicy Care Netvork Sutbomnponient
This subcomponent, which had a highly satisfactory performance, was able to establish an effective way
to address emergencies in the three country's main cities, where almost 50 percent health emergencies
take place. By intervening in 19 health units with infrastructure refurbishment, specialized equipment and
supplies, emergency management reorganization, and by providing basic and advanced life support,
training for 4,460 staff, the component succeeded in reducing the critical first 48-hour mortality rates in
the hospitals.
A coordinated emergency health network was established, equipped with a 91 1 telephone and radio
communication system, and supported by an ambulance network with first-aid-trained paramedics and
auxiliary staff. Under the new system, emergency response times were shortened from 4 hours on
average to 10-15 minutes, and emergency pre-hospital cases attended rose from about 2,500 in 1998 to
close to 4,000 in 2000. A monitoring system was put in place to track the quality provided by the
- 10-



emergency health network, as well as other production and operational indicators. The networks
currently are run by the municipalities of Quito, Cuenca and Ibarra, and by the civil defense agency in
Guayaquil.
El Ninto Contingency Cotmlponent
This component, developed in response to the anticipated damage from the El Nino phenomenon,
performed in a highly satisfactory manner. The component was successful in (a) delivering a precise and
effectively co-financed action plan; (b) implementing urgent activities in a decentralized manner through
health areas whose personnel were trained in epidemic detection and treatment, as well as in procurement,
disbursement and expense justification procedures; (c) extending its scope of action by training and
working with 600 community leaders in the epidemic surveillance and promotion of the individual/family
health prevention education; (d) raising community support for elimination of vector reservoirs through
IEC campaigns; (e) strengthening an epidemiological surveillance and control system by providing the
National Institute of Hygiene institution with required equipment, reagents and other laboratory supplies,
and training in screening infectious and communicable conditions; (f) coordinating operations with
collaborating national and provincial organizations to improve efficiency in the response to the
emergency; (g) working closely with the procurement agency (UNDP) to ensure timely purchasing and
distribution of vaccines, pharmaceuticals and other medical inputs; and (h) providing damaged hospital
and water and sanitation installations with rehabilitated infrastructure and repaired equipment.
As a result of those actions and the opportune screening and treatment, the expected epidemic outbreaks
of malaria and cholera were avoided and disease incidence was kept to controllable levels. Given the
severity of the malaria outbreak by mid-1 999, experts predicted more than 100,000 cases by the end of
the year; in fact, expected malaria incidence was reduced by more than 20 percent. This was possible
through the project supporting prevention activities as expanded facilities for malaria diagnosis and
treatment (302,385 blood examinations for malaria were undertaken alone in 1998, the highest number
since 1993).
Supplemental - PROSADE
In sharp contrast to the successful implementation of most of FASBASE, the supplemental loan
PROSADE experienced disappointments in nearly all its components, and had an unsatisfactory
perfonnance. In large measure, this outcome was associated with the political and institutional instability
that prevailed in the country throughout most of 2000, following the overthrow of the previous
administration and the replacement of health authorities and project teams.
Activities under the Health Care Entergency Component included rehabilitation of 233 health centers in
the poorest parishes of six provinces. As a result of extreme political instability and a lack of government
support, the project did not start until one year into effectiveness - more than half of the lifetime of the
supplemental loan. The agreements signed with several regions were not implemented for a variety of
political, institutional and technical reasons. Rehabilitation of 233 infrastructure interventions were
initiated in the poorest parishes of six provinces. Unfortunately, due to lack of planning and timely
availability of counterpart resources, only 48 percent of those interventions were completed by project
closure. Basic drugs and medical supplies were purchased, but distribution was delayed due to lack of
appropriate planning; anti-tuberculosis drugs were distributed, as expected, to health areas of high risk, as
were vaccines, micronutrients, iron, and vitamin A supplementation for infants and mothers. Ultimately,
the component had an unsatisfactory performance.
The Sanzitation and Water Component was designed to support the extension of sustainable water and
sanitation systems developed by the original project into rural areas not yet served. The project started by
contracting the design of 43 projects, following the lessons leamed regarding the need to establish strong
community promotion, organization and health education programs. However, the political and
-1 1-



institutional crises experienced by the country permitted only marginal outputs to be obtained in two
provinces (236 latrines constructed in I 1 poor parishes), which followed the already-proven community
demand and participation methodologies. The performance overall was unsatisfactory. Fortunately,
arrangements have been made by the project unit to secure continuation of financing for most of the
pending infrastructure interventions, as well as for the use (partially by PRAGUAS) of the design studies
that are valuable for potential future Government investments in water and sanitation.
The execution responsibility for the Malaria Prevention Component had been assigned to the Tropical
Malaria Undersecretary based in Guayaquil, seeking to decentralize the implementation of urgent actions
that had been well defined and agreed upon, and thereby reduce the effect of the continuous technical
changes at the central level. The component financed malaria prevention and control activities by
supporting field operations, including intensive training processes for community leaders, volunteers,
students, teachers, and representatives of local and regional institutions; purchase and distribution of anti-
malaria and other treatment drugs; elimination of vector reservoirs with community participation;
distribution of pyretroid-impregnated bednets to 36,000 families; and pioneering environmental control
methods to reduce reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. A malaria surveillance network was formed
and strengthened with provision of lab equipment and supplies, bicycles and training. The local health
systems of the affected areas also had an active participation in the diagnosis and treatment of malaria and
other tropical diseases. However, due to political conflict with the central project unit, there were
insufficient communication channels. Poor coordination complicated the central monitoring of this
component; a shortfall in reimbursement of funds and lack of timely recognition of counterpart resources
provided by the local and community levels limited activities in the last months of the project. Overall
perfomiance was unsatisfactory.
Under the supplemental loan's project monitoring and evaluation activities, the project failed to (a)
establish adequate monitoring and management systems to ensure timely implementation of key project
activities (except in the case of the malaria prevention component); (b) assess the degree to which the
targeted population was receiving the expected benefits; and (c) monitor timely allocation of budget and
expenditures. Performance in monitoring and evaluation was highly unsatisfactory. For example, the
operating plan for the project was delivered for the Bank's approval only six months before project
closure, without co-financing arrangements to replace the observed lack of community cost-sharing. In
addition, several sanitation and health care infrastructure expenditures were started without appropriate
planning for their completion and future maintenance.
4.3 Net Present Valu(e/Econo,zic rate of return:n
N/A
4.4 Finianicial rate of rettilrn:
N/A
4.5 Inistituitionial development impact:
The project's contributions to human resources capacity, infornation systems, and the ability of the
public health services to respond to health needs (i.e., through the emergency services network,
community-based water and sanitation improvements, and nutrition support) are described in detail in
earlier sections.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governtment or imnplementing agency:
The project faced severe constraints associated with the economic, epidemiologic, and natural
environment. First, as a result of several macroeconomic crises involving drops in the oil prices and an
IMF-led effort to contain government expenditures, central government counterpart funds often were
unavailable, delaying project implementation. Measures were required to mitigate this problem; e.g.,
arrangements with local governments and communities. Second, the health conditions of the population
at the geographical borders with Peru and Colombia were affected by war, guerrilla and activity
immigration. Fourth, natural disasters including the El Nifio phenomenon, the Bahia earthquake and
volcano eruptions in the Sierra region took attention away from the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political and institutional instability (six different presidents and ten health ministers between 1993 and
2001) affected project implementation and delayed the institutionalization of the actions developed by the
project. For the supplemental loan, the dollarization and adjustment measures taken by the government
had a powerful impact on the social and economic conditions of the poor. This resulted in high levels of
emigration and difficulties in honoring the co-sharing agreements with community, local and regional
resources.
Required counterpart funds were not assigned in a complete and timely manner. The original project
compensated by signing agreements to raise funds from several local and regional institutions.
Decisions on changing the legal framework on aspects related to modernization and decentralization were
delayed due to strong labor and political opposition, although they were finally adopted and the necessary
legislation was enacted. Each change of health administration resulted in a new process of learning about
the project, typically followed by numerous special audits and the replacement of project coordination
staff. In several instances, this stalled implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to iniplenienting agency control:
Despite the establishment of monitoring and financial systems in the original project, the removal of
technical-and administrative level-staff in various instances affected project execution. The supplemental
project, which experienced four staff changes in less than 18 months, failed to set up appropriate
planning, monitoring and evaluation tools for most of the components. In the end, project completion
was badly managed, leaving many project works unfinished.
- 13 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project disbursed 99 percent of loan funds (US$68.9 million) for the components of basic
health care, including the emergency health network (52 percent), nutrition (2 percent), basic sanitation and
safe water (13 percent), policy and institutional strengthening (5 percent), and El Nifio emergency
subprojects (14 percent). The loan proceeds also covered the refinancing of the project preparation fund.
(Also see Annex 2.)
Total project costs represented 86 percent of the appraisal amount, primarily because of the shortage of
central government counterpart funds and reduction of pari-passu requirements for El Nifno emergency
expenditures, in accordance with Bank guidelines for emergency operations. Procurement arrangements
were also modified for the El Nifno event, as reflected in a higher proportion of intemational and national
shopping processes (mainly conducted by IJNDP and PAHO).
The original project was successful in applying an innovative fund-raising mechanism by signing
cost-sharing agreements with local communities (which provided US$ 1.36 million, or 7.3 percent of total
counterpart funds), and with regional/local strategic partners (who supported with US$8.74 million, or 47
percent of total counterpart resources).
The supplemental project fell short of disbursement expectations, using only 54 percent of Bank loan funds.
In the end, spending on health care emergency subprojects accounted for 73 percent of disbursements; basic
sanitation and water for 8 percent; and malaria prevention for 13 percent. The difference refinanced the
front-end fee.
The central government had to allocate almost twice the resources of the original budget to replace the
shortfall in counterpart funds that had been expected to come from local communities and other
stakeholders, which were affected by the macroeconomic adjustment measures. In the case of the malaria
control activities, because of a lack of coordination and political instability, amounts effectively contributed
by the implementing decentralized agency failed to be approved in a timely manner and registered as
counterpart funds.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Ratioiale for suestaiinabilitx rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely.
Most of the project benefits realized under the original phase will be sustained because the institutional
arrangements are in place, although large financial commitments by the Govemment are unlikely. For
some aspects of the project, newer Bank projects will pick up the slack.
Institutional sustainability and borrower ownership is highest for the nutrition subcomponent. The
coordination of this component, institutionalized from its inception, was transferred to the national nutrition
department in 1999. In addition, for most of the local water and sanitation projects, an active water
committee is assuring the maintenance of the installations. The new basic health care model is now part of
the country's health care system and likely to be continued, although not at the desired level on the ground.
In addition, the 911 emergency care system is now run by the municipal governments in Quito, Cuenca
and Ibarra, and the Civil Defense in Guayaquil.
- 14 -



Financial sustainability is less assured, given Ecuador's precarious macroeconomic conditions. Some
activities in basic health started under the project will not be continued due to lack of local financial
resources. Many of the personnel hired by the project were not absorbed for the lack of financial resources,
which has meant loss of human capacity for the project sites. In has been reported that these professionals
mainly went into the private sector, thus were lost to the public health system although not to Ecuador.
Achievements of some project components are being built upon and expanded under more recent Bank
projects: institutional strengthening under the MODERSA project, and water and basic sanitation under
the PRAGUAS project.
6.2 Transition arrangetmzent to regular operations:
PROSADE was designed, in part, to assure transition arrangements for some components of the project.
Despite poor implementation of the supplemental loan, arrangements were previously made for the
sustainability in the coordination of the achievements of the project, mainly at the health areas and
community levels (for example, in the case of water and sanitation, and the emergency health network), and
centrally (for example, in the case of the nutrition component).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Banik
7. 1 Lending:
In general, the Bank's lending performance was satisfactory, adequately responding to Bank priorities and
national strategies.
7.2 Siupervisioni:
Highly Satisfactory. Throughout most of the execution of FASBASE, Bank supervision performance
surpassed the average. There was a high degree of continuity in task management-the same task manager
was in place from 1993 until the end of the original project-and this stability counterbalanced frequent
personnel turnover in the country. A good share of the original project's success can be attributed to the
Bank's flexibility in the face of changing conditions, for example by responding to needs created by the El
Nifno phenomenon and accepting changes in the loan agreement to make implementation more efficient.
Supervision during the original project took place two times per year through missions composed of public
health specialists and a health economist, as well as procurement, disbursement and financial specialists.
There is evidence of frequent follow-up between supervision missions, and on-going oversight of both
technical and administrative matters. In addition, during most of the original project, supervision was
supported by the Bank's in-country operational and financial expertise. PAHO/WHO staff participated in
supervision missions. It is important to note that the level of supervision was not as high during the
PROSADE implementation, when most of the Bank's support was concentrated in two missions.
7.3 Overall Bank performnance:
Highly Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparaitioni:
Satisfactory. The borrower was fully engaged in the preparation of the operation, participating actively in
all aspects of design work.
- 15 -



7.5 Governm,ent inmplenzentation peiformance:
Despite frequent changes in the MOH, the government performed in a satisfactory manner. The
Government complied with the loan's legal covenants, all of which dealt with routine planning and
administrative issues. However, because of financial constraints, the central Government failed at times to
provide the necessary counterpart funds in a timely manner. Additionally, the frequent political changes
(often one minister per year) meant that each new minister started with little understanding of the project,
and no ownership or confidence in the project implementation team.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance was mixed. Given the high turnover in leadership, as well as
all the challenges imposed by the changing reform context, in most instances the team steered the project
well through troubled water. This is attributable to the dedication and commitment of the technical
personnel responsible for implementing activities under this project. However, changes in the team - twice
for political reasons - brought about the creation of teams which were unable to successfully manage
project implementation. This was true in 1996-97, when the project came to a complete halt, and in
2000/2001, when the supplemental loan had trouble starting up. On balance, performance can be
considered satisfactory.
It is important to note that two partners contributed greatly to the success of the project: UNDP provided
strong support as the project's procurement agent, and was particularly helpful during the el Nifno
phenomenon. PAHO's Revolving Drug Fund assisted with the purchase and management of immunization
campaigns.
7.7 Overall Borrot wer performanice:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 The application of targeting criteria responded well to the fiscal constraints. Although the
Government envisioned extending the model of basic health services throughout the country, the project
was successful in establishing a core priority: to first develop better health services in the poorest 40 health
services areas, selected according to objective criteria (i.e., unsatisfied basic needs). This was an
appropriate response to the realities of fiscal constraints and high levels of indebtedness of the country, and
in accordance with the distributional objective of the project.
8.2 Pilot testing is appropriate at early stages of policy implementation. During the implementation of
the project, several types of interventions and service delivery approaches were first pilot tested using
project resources, and then applied on a broader scale using other sources of funds, including local
resources and support from other international agencies. This proved to be an effective strategy for the
start-up phase of the implementation of new policies and programs. For example, the micronutrient
program developed under the project became a national program, mandated by a Presidential Decree. The
water and sanitation methodologies designed and initially implemented under the project were ultimately
expanded, transferred to local governments with the participation and co-financing of community
organizations, and placed under the stewardship of the Ministry of Environmental Affairs. Similarly, the
91 1 emergency health care system was pilot tested in the three largest cities, and will be expanded to other
urban areas using local resources.
8.3 The development of an emergency services network yielded high returns. From the experience of
- 16 -



this project, it appears that the development of a 911 emergency health services network can yield positive
results throughout the health system, particularly for developing a referral mechanism that links
communities and ambulatory centers with specialized emergency care services in hospitals. It provides
highly visible improvements to the public, and has the distinct advantage of relatively easy-to-measure
performance indicators.
8.4 Public-private partnerships are effective in micronutrient fortification programs. The fortification
of staple foods tested under this project, and then adopted nationally, demonstrated the high potential of
public-private partnerships. Iron-fortification of commercially-produced flour is a highly sustainable
intervention that will have long-lasting public health benefits, addressing one of the primary causes of
matemal and infant morbidity.
8.5 Municipal government, community involvement and innovative counterpart arrangements can
buffer the project from economic shocks. Permitting the national financial counterpart at the local level
to be in the form of municipal government contributions provided under co-financing agreements, in-kind
contributions and labor made the project less subject to economic and political instability in the country,
contributed to timely implementation, and ensured local and community ownership of project activities - a
key factor for long-term sustainability of project investments.
8.6 Emergencies can bring about better implementation results if coupled with good technical and
implementation capabilities. The two emergency interventions -- "El Niiio" and the MIS "shock"
approach - showed good implementation results. It was possible to maintain high priority for these two
actions throughout their implementation, and obtain full attention from all sides - the project team, the
highest national political levels and the Bank - greatly speeding processing of requests and other
implementation activities. Flexibility in the face of emergencies was a key factor in the success of the
project.
8.7 Continuity in Bank task management helps to reduce the impact of turnover on the Borrower
side. In the face of very high levels of turnover among MOH officials and project staff, the stable
composition of the Bank team helped to maintain the momentum of implementation. The Bank team, which
knew the full history of the operation, was able to provide timely and in-depth orientation to incoming
authorities, and to encourage the continuation of established priorities and agreed-upon actions.
Supervision missions served as the vehicles for provision of technical assistance to the Government, rather
than simply as vehicles for administrative and financial monitoring,
8.8 Project activities that imply a significant recurrent cost burden should be reassessed - and
possibly redesigned - in light of new economic conditions. Under the basic health services component, it
was foreseen that the hiring of health professionals would be taken over progressively by the MOH.
Although some jobs had actually been created by the MOH, and both the Government and the Bank sought
to adjust the personnel requirements downward in the face of increasing fiscal constraints, the economic
crises over the lifetime of the project made it difficult to meet these obligations. This meant that often
trained and highly motivated personnel could not be financed with national funds, and the work of well
functioning basic care centers was interrupted.
8.9 Program management experience and continuity is essential at all stages of implementation, and
can ensure timely execution. At various times during project implementation, project implementation
was hampered by the need to orient new health officials to the project, and/or to develop program
management skills in newly appointed project team members. Greater stability and a consistently higher
- 17-



level of management skills would have permitted the project to achieve even more, particularly
during the later years. The project's implementation, particularly during the later years, showed
that the political and financial costs of very slow implementation of a loan are high. From a
political perspective, there were costs associated with lack of visible improvements in public
services. From a financial perspective, thevery slow pace of disbursements under PROSADE
meant that for a period Ecuador was paying more in interest payments than it was using from the
proceeds of the loan.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implenmenting agenicy:
Comments from the Government of Ecuador/Ministry of Health
En conocimiento de su comunicaci6n de 4 de diciembre del 2001, el Ministerio de Salud Publica,
procedi6 a la revisi6n de la primera versi6n del Informe de Cierre del Proyecto FASBASE 3510
/PROSADE 35 10-1 (ICR); por lo que es pertinente efectuar los siguientes comentarios:
El Gobiemo del Ecuador es coincidente con los analisis efectuados para el levantamiento del
ICR, sin embargo creemos, que la mayor ejecuci6n del Proyecto, se hizo efectiva cuando existi6
la estabilidad necesaria para los Coordinadores y Equipos Tecnicos, y asimismo se puso en
peligro la continuidad cuando se efectuaron cambios radicales, como una respuesta a intereses de
caracter politico. La necesidad de mantener equipos tecnicos estables y competentes es evidente
para garantizar el desarrollo arm6nico de un Proyecto.
La flexibilidad del Banco Mundial, al permitir incorporar nuevas estrategias durante la ejecuci6n
del Proyecto para alcanzar los objetivos propuestos ha sido muy importante, la misma se vio
reflej ada al aceptar como contraparte local el aporte comunitario razonablemente valorado y la
participaci6n de fondos locales que permitieron garantizar los diferentes procesos y sostenibilidad
del mismo.
La intervencion del Proyecto F ASBASE conjuntamente con el Ministerio de Salud Publica para
mnitigar los efectos causados por el Fen6meno de El Nino, se hizo factible gracias a la aceptaci6n
del Banco Mundial para reasignar fondos de las diferentes categorias de gasto, recurso econ6mico
que ayud6 a evitar una debacle mayor a nuestro pais.
La participaci6n comunitaria, como parte del Modelo de Atenci6n-Gesti6n fue un elemento
determinante que facilit6 el desarrollo y consolidaci6n de procesos, permitiendo a los actores
locales la apropiaci6n de estos y su responsabilidad en la etapa de desarrollo.
Por otro lado, es necesario reconocer que la falta de cumplimiento de algunos compromisos por
parte del Estado, principalmente en lo atinente a la contrataci6n de recursos humanos
ydesembolso oportuno de recursos econ6micos de contraparte, puso en riesgo la estabilidad del
Proyecto, pero estos inconvenientes se resolvieron con importantes gestiones del Banco Mundial.
Para concluir, debo expresar que el Proyecto FASBASE logr6 alcanzar varios de los objetivos
propuestos en medio de factores tanto adversos como satisfactorios, cuyas experiencias deben ser
incorporadas y tomadas en cuenta en ejecuci6n de otros proyectos que el Banco Mundial
mantiene en el Pais.
- 18 -



Considero seria importante cambiar en el documento en la pagina numero siete, la frase golpe de
estado por cambio politico.
Asimismo, felicito al Equipo Tecnico nacional y del Banco Mundial en el levantamiento del ICR
que recoge puntos relevantes de necesaria aplicaci6n en las diferentes actividades del Ministerio
de Salud.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from UNDP
Consideramos importante destacar los logros alcanzados por el proyecto FASBASE en lo
relacionado con el tema de agua y saneamiento, gracias al proyecto ECU/ 92/008 "Asistencia
tecnica para Saneamiento Basico Rural" financiado por el PNUD: US $ 625,000, con la
participaci6n del Banco Mundial como Agencia de Ejecuci6n. Dicho proyecto tuvo una
duraci6n de 7 anios - 1993 - 1999
LOGROS ALCANZADOS POR EL PROYECTO
Elaboraci6n y aplicaci6n de un modelo de implementaci6n descentralizado, a nivel de
provincias, municipios y comunidades, con la participaci6n del gobierno central, municipal
y sector privado, a traves de las organizaciones de intervencion local (OILS) y las
comunidades.
Elaboraci6n e implementaci6n de una estrategia de intervenci6n participativa de todos los
actores, en todo el ciclo del proyecto, desde la priorizaci6n de sus necesidades hasta el
mantenimiento de los servicios.
Elaboraci6n y aplicaci6n de una estrategia de fortalecimiento institucional, para todos los
actores a nivel: Nacional, Provincial, Municipal y Comunal, a traves de una estrategia de
capacitaci6n.
Imnplementaci6n y documentaci6n sobre:
a) Proyectos pilotos de Modelos de Gesti6n Local en agua y saneamiento, dentro de un
proceso de concertaci6n.
b) Diagn6stico Rapido y Participativo"- que permite a los municipios conocer la situaci6n de
agua y saneamiento en las comunidades de su secci6n, para planificar sus inversiones.
Elaboraci6n de un Manual sobre las especificaciones tecnicas y el uso del "Ferrocemento",
en los sistemas de agua y saneamiento.
Elaboraci6n y documentacion de los "Modelos de Implantaci6n", que se fueron probando a
traves de la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
Elaboraci6n y Documentaci6n de las Lecciones Aprendidas del Componente de
Saneamiento Basico.
Adicionalmente, gracias a los resultados positivos de este proyecto el Gobierno pudo negociar
un prestamo importante del Banco Mundial para el Sector de Agua y Saneamiento, que ahora se
lo conoce como proyecto PRAGUAS.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 19 -



10. Additional Information
ICR Team
Ruth Levine (ICR Task Team Leader)
Magdalene Ronsemoller (ICR Co-Task Team Leader)
Evelyn Pesantez (Consultant)
Patricia Bemedo (Program Assistant)
Maria Colchao (Program Assistant)
Comments Received from:
Evangeline Javier (Sector Leader)
Charles Griffin (HNP Sector Manager)
Patricio Marquez (Health Specialist)
Michele Gragnolati (Task Manager)
Girindre Beeharry (Task Manager)
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1.1 Key Performance Indicators: Outcomelimpact
Outcome Indicators           Projected in Last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Improved access to basic   * Over 2 MM poor              * 3.2 MM poor with access to basic
health services for 2 million poor                             health services.
in peri-urban and rural areas.                               * Infant mortality (per 1,000 live
- Improve infant and maternal                                  births) decreased from 44.2
health and survival                                            (1989) to 28.0 (1999).
* Maternal mortality reduced from
1.7 to 1.6 over the 90's decade
(ii) Decentralization of health  * 38 health areas (additional 3  * 38 +3 health areas covering poor
services delivery, establishment  areas intervened by Belgian  populations in 15 provinces
of 41 local health districts      Cooperation Funds)         * (Absence of efficiency indicators)
- Capacity increase of primary
health care programs to provide
appropriate and efficient care for
80% of main health problems.
(iii) Community involvement in the Achieved                 * Involvement of the community in
financing of local health services,                           the cost sharing (counterpart
nutrition and rural water and                                 funds), especially local health
sanitation (municipal contributions                           services (infrastructure and
and user charges)                                             emergency health subcomponents)
and rural water and sanitation.
(iv) Design and implementation of Achieved                  * Delivery of technical products. Start
additional sector-wide health care                            of national consultation processes
reform proposals and pilot                                    as a basis for a follow up World
programs.                                                     Bank health sector modernization
project
- 21 -



Annex 1.2 Key Performance Indicators: Outputs
Output Indicators              |                Actual/Latest Estimate
Basic Health Care Component                   l                                               l
Organization of        * About 40 health areas       * 38 health areas intervened (others were funded
Health Networks          organized under the           by the Belgian cooperation)
project
Network Staffing and   * Approx. 1,220 incremental   * 539 health staff were contracted, due to shortage
Development              Health staff contracted       of counterpart funds.
* Incentives established for  * Not achieved, due to legal and labor issues,
MOH staff based on            despite several technical outputs.
performance.
* 4,500 trained staff,        * With the support of national and foreign
including community           institutions a total of 13,542 staff trained: 328 in
health workers, dental        health promotion; 3579 in mother and child
assistants, supervision       care; other 3,398 in health planning and primary
personnel, medical            care administration; 177 in health services
technicians, and              management.
administrative staff.       * 1,600 trained by the 'IADAS" (national
* Training equipment,           institutions for the development of health areas)
materials and manuals         in emergency network, 4,460 in pre- and in
supplied.                     -hospital emergency care.
* Distribution of training materials and manuals.
(Public Campaigns)    * Implementation of Public     * Workshops and massive printed informative
campaigns to enhance          materials.
community participation     * Community participation by sharing some health
staffing costs.
Pharmaceuticals &     * Distribution of basic drugs  * Distribution of vaccines, basic drugs distribution
Medical Supplies         and vaccines.                to 50% of health areas, having a cost-recovery
* Establishment of               scheme.
cost-recovery scheme and    * Reform of the national drug procurement
assessment of alternative     institution (CEMEIN) involvement of the private
procurement and               sector.
distribution methods.       * Training of 170 staff in health areas and
provincial directorates, on purchasing
programming, rational drug administration and
warehousing methods.
Infrastructure        * 239 health facilities        * A total of 389 interventions (188 in project health
constructed, furnished,       areas, 179 under El Nino component, and 20
equipped, upgraded,           under the emergency component).
repaired, and/or
maintained.
Equipment and         * Distribution of 7            * Provision of ambulances in the emergency
Vehicles                 ambulances, 32 vehicles       component and emergency equipment to 19
and equipment to health       health units.
unit according to needs.    * General equipment to 216 health areas.
- 22 -



Nutrition Component
Nutrition Education  * Nutrition related workshops  * Training of 3,385 health staff in nutrition
and Promotion          materials, and mass media   supplementation; 91 (public and private health
campaigns.                  sectors) in micronutrient fortification.
* Publication and distribution of publications, training
and informational material and investigations.
* Realization of media campaigns with UNICEF
support.
Growth Monitoring    * Nutritional status of     * Implementation of a national monitoring system
pregnant and lactating      through studies (financed by another World Bank
mothers monitored           project).
* Application of monitoring norms, materials and
equipment for detecting malnutrition among
children and mothers in project health areas.
* Monitoring of hematocrit levels implemented by MOH.
Supplements and     * Supplementation to         * Vitamin A supplementation to ca. 1.9 million
micronutrients         pregnant and lactating      children.
provision              women.                    * Iron supplementation was executed for
* Distribution of             approximately 652,000 pregnant women and
micronutrients to health    460,481 infants.
facilities.               * Fortification of flour with iron on a nationwide basis,
* Studies to determine        involving private sector resources.
fortification of food
commodities with
micronutrients.
Basic Sanitation and Safe Water Component
Institutional Capacity  * Tests of alternative  * Reform of institutions formerly belonging to the
decentralized organizational  MOH and transfer of responsibilities to the Ministry
and delivery forms.         of Housing and Development.
* Technical assistance to   * Testing of alternative models in conjunction with
Institutional reform        newly strengthened institution.
measures. Staff training.  * Development of training technics (health promotion,
* Studies of institutional    community participation, construction supervision,
strengthening and cost      maintenance and health education) with NGO
recovery schemes.           support
* Design and Implementation of a cost recovery
scheme for all community projects.
Infrastructure      * Supply of latrines and water  * Building of about 16,000 latrines and 235 water
systems to 165              and sanitation systems (with community cost
communities (+ community    sharing).
co-sharing).              * Establishment and strengthening of water
* Upgrading of 42 rural water  community organizations. Training of 334
systems and establishment   community leader.
of maintenance centers.   * Successful combination of infrastructure
investment and community development.
Methodology basis for a follow up World Bank
project in course of implementation.
Communication campaign for use of safe water fro
20,175 beneficiaries.
Institutional Strengthe ning Component
Institutional Bases  * Introduction of management  * Support to new organizational arrangements the
for Decentralization   and operational strategies.  health areas structure.
* Definition of decentralized  * Approval of new legal instruments related to the
organizational arrangements.  decentralization process
* Establishment of a budget  * Establishment of budgeting and planning
programming system.         methodologies reinforced by implementation of
* Design of a supporting       SIGEF (Cost Accounting System).
management information    * Design of an integrated and ambitious MIS,
system (MIS).               purchase of equipment, (consolidation under follow
. _________________  ____________________________  up  W orld  Bank  project.)
- 23 -



Sector Staff          * Training of local staff    * (Health staff training under first component)
Development             (management scholarships,  * MIS: training of staff of initially 34 facilities.
in-services training for 600  (Continuation under follow up WB project.)
administrative staff, and MIS
workshops for 100 staff).
* Supply of training equipment
and materials.
Studies & sector      * Supporting studies (priority  * Studies on all planned subjects
monitoring/Evaluation   issues, resource allocation,  * Additional studies for further health sector reform
user fees, cost recovery,    (taken on by follow up WB project).
rehabilitation of hospital  * Informe de Cierre
system, MOH - IESS
coordination).
* Impact evaluation through
MIS and LSMS Data.
El Nino Contingency Component
During El Niho        * Provision of health care to  * Implementation of all programmed actions (support
phenomenon              affected population           by provincial directorates.
* Epidemiological             * Close coordination with national El Nino Unit
surveillance                 (CPEFEM)
* Social mobilization and     * Purchase and distribution of drugs, medical
promotion of self-care.      supplies and equipment.
* Rehabilitation of affected  * Infrastructure rehabilitation of 179 health facilities.
health care units.         * Training of 600 community in disaster support.
Consolidation after   * Rehabilitation of affected  * Repair of water systems in most affected provinces
El Niflo phenomenon     water systems.               of (Guayas, Manabi)
* Repair of affected health   * Repair of 72 health facilities in 5 provinces
care units.                * Distribution of anti-tuberculosis drugs and other
* Control of vector reservoirs  supplies.
* Treatment of affected       * Strengthen of surveillance system of INH (Hygienic
patients, and surveillance   National Institute) -equipment, supplies and training
for resistance.            * Purchase and distribution of vaccines in affected
* Training of health staff.     areas.
* Attendance of 150,000 patients in ambulatory care,
and 15,000 people MOH hospitals.
-24 -



Annex 1.3 Key Performance Indicators: Outputs
Supplemental Loan 3510-1-EC
Output Indicators                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Basic Health Care
* Intervention in 438 health units - rehabilitation and  * Intervention in 111 health units in 69 poor parishes.
infrastructure upgrading and minor repairs in 374
poorest parishes.                            * Distribution of anti-tuberculosis drugs, vaccines,
* Distribution of basic drugs, vaccines, micronutrients,  micronutrients, supplementation tablets. (Some
iron supplementation distributed.              basic drugs pending distribution).
Sanitation and Water
* Construction of 1,400 latrines in poorest 40 parishes  * Building of 236 latrines in 11 parishes (Cotopaxi
province).
* Building of 12 sewerage and 17 water systems  * Elaboration of 43 designs studies for water and
sewerage systems. Only 4 systems built in 2
* Installation of 200 manual water pumps          provinces.
* Not purchased
Malaria Prevention
* Rehabilitation and equipment of Malaria labs in 42  * Purchase and distribution of lab equipment (200
high-risk malaria areas.                       microscopes) and supplies in new diagnostic posts in
10 provinces. Rehabilitation of lab infrastructure in 7
provinces.
* Drugs and medical supplies distributed       * Distribution of anti-malaria prevention and treatment
drugs.
* IEC Campaigns implemented                    * Design of IEC Campaign design but not
implemented. Elaboration of manual, training of
community leaders, volunteers, students, teachers,
representatives of local and regional institutions. In
coordination with the National Malaria Program and
Province Directorates elaboration of provincial plans
for Malaria prevention and control.
* Surveillance, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of  * Provision of training provided to health units of high
Malaria activities executed.                   risk areas (50 workshops for 831 health personnel
and 611 community volunteers, promoters & leaders,
in 8 provinces).
* Establishment and Training of a network of 132
epidemiology surveillance agents 5 provinces.
* Training of 95 staff as entomology assistants
* Control of 101 vector reservoirs in 10 cantons.
Biological controls applied in 2 provinces.
* Bednets with pyretroid distributed to almost 36,000
families in high risk areas.
* Provision of 5 vehicles and 144 bicycles.
* Supply of 10 stereoscopic microscopes, and supply
of some computer equipment.
Monitoring and Evaluation
* Provision of Technical assistance.           * Consultant work and manuals. Partial financial audit.
Provision of Management training to 40 provincial
directors - in malaria component.
(Data for basic health care or water and sanitation
* Monitoring of community participation in 374   projects not available).
parishes to (for sustainability and local development)
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a (1) Project Cost by Component
Second Social Development Project-Health and Nutrition Loan (Loan 3510-EC)
____    ___       ___            -   tSlU---          . --          P        ,    ,      , 
.O Lcal     |F0|      Tolal  B     alk         :GovCof 40W
Componens at Appraisal
A. Basic Healh Care                     425      175     60.0   37.6       158    53.4   39.1       128        51.9      104%
a. Basic Services                                             33.2       12.8   46.0   25.8        4.6       30.4      78%
b. Infrastructure                                              3.2        2.2    5.4    6.4        4.5       10.9     201%
c. EmergencyHealM Network                                      1.2        0.8    2.0    6.9        3.7       10.6     577%
B. Nutriton                              4.5      1.2     5.7    4.4        1.2    5.6    2.1        0.0        2.1      47%
C. Basic Sanitation & Safe Water         8.2      3.5    11.7    7.3        3.5   10.8    9.1        3.9       13.0      124%
D. Policy and Institutional Strengthening  6.5    4.9    11.4    6.5        4.9   11.A    4.4        0.7        5.1      68%
PPF Refinanang                                                   1.2          -     1.2    1.2         -        1.2      100%
Added CoVoents
E. B Nino Emergency subprojects      I__                        13.0        1.4   14A4   13.1        1.3       14A       101%
Total Baseline Costs                     61.7    27.1    88.8   70.0       26.8   96.8   68.9       18.7       87.6      99%
Physical Contingencies                   0.8      0.9     1.6
Pnce conbngencies                        8.3      3.4    11.8   _
Total Project Costs                     70.8     31.4   102.2   700        26.8   96.8   68.9       18.7       87.6      99%
New component adel Amendment dated November 26, 1997.
(*) Revised esnmates based on approved Jui.e 1998 amendment
- 26 -



Annex 2a (2) Project Cost by Component
Supplemental Loan 3510-1-EC
.Appra    Edh ..            Resed Budgtm             Adua Esdh   tss       Perm"n.
AMWBank
-    us         -     (AprirOW V.POAFbc 2001)           US Mai lluw        *vLu.dget
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~q -- -..---B    .G           dl-ak        Gv      a   ToW    Bank*' Gowt + Cof  Totbd       %
Gor#Cof    TOW    Ba*, Gowt,Cof       O     Si      OV+O        oa
Components at Appraisal
A Impnvement of Healh Care Emergency  12.5       0.9    13.3   14.0         0.5   14.5    7.9        0.7      8.6         57X
Subprojects
B. Basic Sanitaton & Safe Water        3.7       0.4     4.1    2.1         1.0    3.1    0.8        0.1      0.9         390/
C. Malaria Prevention                  2.9       0.2     3.0    2.4         0.3    2.     1.3        0.1      1.5         560/c
D. Projed Montouing and Evaluabon      1.0       0.0     1.0    1.5         0.0    1.5    0.6        0.1      0.7         390
E.Front-end fee                        0.2         -     0.2    0.2          -     0.2    0.2         -       0.2        100
Total Project Costs                   20.2       1.4    21.6   20.2         1.8   22.0   10.9         1.0    11.8         54
- 27 -



Annex 2b (1) -Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Second Social Development Project-Heith and Nutrition (Loan 3510-EC)
Appraisal Estimate (US$MM)
Pro]jtrElement     -             .  ICB:O . LCB      es -.  d        4     .
Civil Works                                          12.0        5.0 2/          17.0
(7.2)     (3.0)           (10.2)
Goods
Vehicles                                 1.6                                   1.6
(1.6)                                 (1.6)
Other Equipment                          8.7       2.4        0.5             11.6
(8.7)     (2.0)      (0.4)           (11.1)
Furniture                                             2.3       0.5 2/           2.8
(2.1)     (0.4)            (2.5)
Studies and Technical Assistance                        -      13.7 3/          13.7
-  -  (13.7)           (13.7)
Training
-  -    7.4              7.4
(7.4)           (7.4)
Materials                                             -       1.4 2/
Services                                                      6.0 3/
Pharmecuticals and Medical Supplies        7.0        1.8        1.0 21          9.8
(3.5)     (0.9)      (0.5)            (4.9)
Food and Micronutrients                               3.5                        3.5
(2.2)                      (2.2)
Operating Costs                                                31.3 45          31.3
(12.9)           (12.9)
Incentives (one-time bonuses)                                   3.5 5/           3.5
(3.5)           (3.5)
TOTAL                                     17.3       22.0       62.9           102.2
(13.8)    (14.4)     (41.8)           (70.0)
1 / Figures in parentheses are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank
2/ Shopping
3/ Specialized Services
4/ On a declining basis
5/ Does not involve procurement
- 28 -



Annex 2b (2) -Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Second Social Development Project-Helth and Nutrition (Loan 3510-EC)
Actual/Latest Estimate (US$MM)
Project Element                         ICB'       LCB;-:   Oiherti') Total Cost,
Civil Works                                            2.1       24.7         26.8
(1.3)     (16.6)       (17.9)
Goods                                       8.4        2.2       7.5         18.1
Vehicles                                  2.0       0.1        1.1          3.2
(2.0)      (0.1)      (1.0)       (3.0)
Other Equipment                          6.4        2.1        6.4         15.0
(6.1)      (1.8)      (5.8)      (13.7)
Furniture                                             0.5         1.2         1.7
(0.4)      (1. 1)      (1.5)
Studies and Technical Assistance                      0.9       14.1         15.0
(0.9)     (14.1)      (15.0)
Training                                                         2.6          2.6
(1.7)       (1.7)
Materials                                                      1.0          1.0
Services                                                        1.6         1.6
Pharmecuticals and Medical Supplies         0.5                  5.3          5.8
(0.5)                (5.3)        (5.8)
Food and Micronutrients                                           1.2         1.2
(0.8)       (0.8)
Operating Costs                                                 15.1         15.1
(9.1)       (9.1)
Incentives (one-time bonuses)                                    0.0          0.0
PPF Refinancing                                                   1.2         1.2
(1.2)       (1.2)
TOTAL                                       8.9        5.7       73.0        87.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(8.6)  (4.4)  (56.7)  (69.7)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank
11 ShoppinglOther includes: International and national shopping processes conducted by UNDP
International shopping processes conducted by PAHOIWHO
National shopping processes conducted by the PCU
Direct purchasing processes conducted by UNDP and PCU
- 29 -



Annex 2b (3) -Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Supplemental Loan (Loan 3510-1-EC)
Appraisal Estimate (US$MM)
ICB    NCB II 'EXTESION(21) SHOPPRiTEEW*TA
Civil Wo,*s                                            Z6                                      9.6                      .Z2
.             .Z4               .                   &6                       .                              11.0
Goods                                      1.3         1.3                  Z5                 0.1                                                      5.2
1.3         0.6                 3.8                 0.1                                                      5.71
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                         0.3         0.2                  0.4                0.0                                                       0.8
0.0         0.2                 0.4                 0.0                                                      0.6
Pharmaceuticals and medical                1.0         0.4                  0.1                0.0                                                       1.6
1.0         0.3                 1.4                 0.0                                                      2.8
Vaccines                                   -           -                    2.0                -                                                        2.0
-     -                    2.0                -                                                        2.0
Vehicles                                               0.8                  -                  0.0                      -                               0.8
-     0.1                 -0.0                                         -     _   ___                   0.1
services,training,aud,stud                                       -                             -=                        2.2                             Z2
Operational costs                          .                                                   0.3                      0.8                              1.2
-  -               -                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.3           0.8   _____1.1
Front end fee                                        = -                                       .                                        0.2              0.2
TOTALS PER PROC. METHlOD                   1.31        4.0                 2.51               10.0                      3.00            *   |          21.0
ELANK:                  3.0                 3.8                 9.0                      3.0             0.2            20.2
(1/ NCB for civil works indude: consfrjction in 14 provincial hospitals (average cost of US$82,143) and of 10 water systems (each for approx. US$123,200).
NCB for goods indude all goods contracts between US$25,000 and US$100,000 (except for subcategories 2.2 and 2.3), in addition to a US$320,000
purchase of 70,000 bednets w/piretroid (manufactured locally).
(2) Extension of contracts of goods procured internationally (mostly through UNDP); indudes drect contracting of vaccines and supplies from PAHO (US$2MM).
(31) Shoppng column includes intematonal, natonal shopping and quotations for works in the following estimated loan amounts: Local - US$8,638,000
(mainly civil works); National - US$220,000; Intemational - US$58,000 (Pharmaceuticalslequipment). Civil works procured through Quotabons wil follow
procedures acceptable to the Bank, consisting of obtaining at least three quotabons from rosters of contractors developed following national or regional
advertisement. Intematonal shopping, as well as ICB, would be conducted through UNDP as Prject's procurement agent, following IBRD approve
procurement norms.
(41) Consultants indude: PAHO fee for procurement of vaccines (approx. US$110,000); UNDP fee as procurement agency (approx. US$326,000).
- 30 -



Annex 2b (4) -Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Supplemental Loan (Loan 3510-1-EC)
Actual/Latest (US$MM)
-  f                        .   - ~ -  .                    ^ PROCUREMENT METHOD
;- > - . - I~-CB             EXTENSION(1 1)     SHOPPilNG(2/ CONSULTANTS(31) FRONT FEE                     TOTAL
Civil Works                                                               2.7                                                 (27
Goods                                2.6                0.8                3.2                                                 6.7
(2.6)              (0j7)             (2.9)                                                (6.2)
Equipment and Fumiture               2.6                                   0.7                                                 3.3
(2.6)                                (0.4)                                                (3.1'
Pharmaceuticals and medical                             0.8               0.5                                                  1.3
(0.7)             (0.4)                                                (1.1)
Vaccines                                                                  2.0                                                  2.0
Vaccines _________(2 0)                                                                       (2.0)
Vehicles                                                                  0.1                                                  0.1
_____  ____________            ~~~(0.1)                                             (0.1)
Consultant                                                                                       1.6                           1.6
______       ____________ ~~~~~~~~(15)(1.5)
Operational costs (4/)                                                     0.3                   0.3                           0.6
(0.2                   (0.2)                         (0.5)
-  ~     ~       -0.2                          0.2
Front end fee                                                                                    -              (0.2)1         (0.2)
TOTALS PER PROC. B                   2.6 |              0.8 |             6.3                    1.9             0.2 1        11.8
BANK:       (2.6               (0.7)             (5.6)1                 (1.8)|          (0.2         (10.9
(11 Extension of contracts of basic drugs procured internationally (UNDP).
(2t) Shopping column includes intemational shopping of malaria microscopies (UNDP), anti-tuberculosis drugs (UNDP), vaccines (PAHO);
national shopping for malaria vehides (UNDP), and quotations for works (average cost of infrastructure interventions US$21,000).
(30 Consultants include: UNDP fee as procurement agency, studies for malaria, training in surveillance, malaria workshops, entomological
stratification, supervision for water, sanitation and basic health civil works, PCU staff.
(4/) Operational costs include: epidemiological supervisors, laboratorists, field actvities for malaria prevention, elimination of vector reservoirs.
- 31 -



Annex 2c (1) -Project Costs and Financing by Category
Second Social Development Project-Health and Nutrition (Loan 3510-EC)
(US$MM)
Appraisal Estlimate  Original amount     Latest Am endment     ActuaULLatest Estimate'  Percentage of Actual vs.
(SAR June 29, 1992)  Loan Agreement      (February 26,2001)                               Latest Amendment
Category of Expenditure    Local   Foreign   Bank   GovL UNDP    Bank   GoE+Cot UNDP    Bank    GoE-Co    LINDP   Bank    GoE_Cof UNDP
Civilworks                   9.10       5.30   9.00               12.21     8.33         12.54       9.33        102.72%   111.97%
Equipment and Fumiture
(except for training matenals
and equipment)               3.00       9.00  11.00               11.87     3.56         12.16       1.14        102.44%    31.91%
Vehides                      0.60       0.80   1.50                2.43     0.73          2.20       0.06         90.46%     8.52%
Medicine and Medical
Supplies                     3.90       4.70   5.00                4.12     1.24          3.67       0.01         89.05%     1.13%
Technical and procurement
assistanoe, studies, audits
and training                 12.10      5 30  14.00               15.93     4.78   0.50  15.87       011    0.65  99.65%     2.33%  130%
Incremental operabon and
maintenance cost            26.50       0.80  12.50                9.22     6.70          9.11       6.07         98.81%    90.63%
Food program                 2.50       0.60   2.00                0.00                   0.00       0.00
Inrentives                   3.10       0.00   3.50                0.00                   0.00       0.00
Promotional campaigns        0.90       0.60   1 50                0.88     0.26          0.87       0.04         99.39%    16.11%
Refunding of PPF                               1.07                1.16                   1.16       0.00        100.00%
Unallocated                  9.10      4.30    8.93                0.00                   0.0        0.00
Added categories-
Emergency subprojects
(a) Civil works                                                   4.70      0.47          4.43       0.49         94.21%  104.59%
(b) Vehides                                                        1.04     0.10          0.86       0.04         82.75%   36.18%
(c) Medicines and medical
supplies                                                           3.24     0.32          3.00       0 41         92.46%   129.37%
(d) Equipment                                                     3.20      0.32          3.06       0.34         95.66%  105.68%
Total                       70.80      31.40  70.00  31.70  0.50  70.00    26.81   0.50  68.93      18.04   0.65  98.47%   67.30, 1130%0
* Categores were added in Amendment dated November 26,1997
US$18.69 of counterpart funds were financed by: Central Govt. - US$8.59M (45.8%), Local communities - US$1.36 (7.3%), Regional & Local Cofinancers -
US$8.74M (46 8%)
- 32 -



Annex 2c (2) -Project Costs and Financing by Category
Supplemental Loan (Loan 3510-1-EC)
(US$MM)
Original Amount on the  Latest I Actual Estimate  Percentage of Actual vs.
Loan                                           Original
Category of Expenditure                   Bank      Govt+Cof      Bank      Govt+Cof      Bank       Govt+Cof
Civil works                                  11.02        1.22        2.46        0.28        22%          23%
Goods                                         5.74        0.06        6.25        0.44        109%        735%
Consultants services (including auditing
services) and Training                        2.19        0.00        1.51        0.11         69%
Operational costs                             1.05        0.12        0.47        0.13         44%        109%
Fee                                           0.20        0.00        0.20        0.00        100%
Total                                        20.20        1.40       10.89        0.96         54%         69%
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Lending
.September 5-22,            4    SE, 2 HS, NS
1990
January 14-30,              4    SE, 2 PHS, 2 NS
1991
April 15-25, 1991           5    SE, 2 PHS, NS, IDS
July 4-12, 1991             3    SE, HS, WSS
Septiembre 9-22,           10   SE, 2 PHS, IS, PCS, NS, IDS,
1991                            WSS, FP(PAHO), IA
January 13-26,              8    SE, 2 PHS, FMS, NS, IS, 2 WSS
1992
June 1992                   1    SE
Octubre 14-23,              3    PHS, DC, 00
1992
May 23-Jun 3,               8    2 PHS, SE, PROCS, DS, NS,
1993                            IDS, FMS
Supervision
November 2-12,               6   2 PHS, PHARS, FMS, EC,            S             S
1993                            NS
July 15-29, 1994             6   PHS, 2 HS, PHARS, OS, PROCS       S             S
January                      5   PHS, HS, HOSS, EC, RWSS           S             S
23-February 3,
1995
July 31-August 11,           7   PHS, HS, 2 IDS, RWSS, OS,         S             S
1995                            FMS
February                     5   PHS, HS, FMS, IDS, WSS            S             S
22-March 6, 1996
February 21 -March           6   2 HS, FMS, IDS, OS, WSS           U            U
6, 1997
November 4-14,               9   PHS, FMS, IDS, 00, WSS, TA,       S             S
1997                            NS, WSS, C
June 15- 18, 1998            3   HS, WSS, PHS                     HS             S
July 20-28, 1998             4   PHS, OS, HS, C, NS               HS             S
Febrero 21-March             2   PHS, IDS
- 35 -



1, 1999
July 7-15, 1999            6   PHS, 2 HS, 2 PROCS, OS           S           HS
November                   5   2 EC, PROCS, 2 PAHO              U            U
26-December 7,                 Participants
2000
March 24, 2000             5   PHS, 2 HS, PROCS, 00             S            S
June 11-19, 2001           3   2 EC, PROCS                      S            s
ICR
October 15-19,             2    HE, OS
2001
C: Consultant
DC: Division Chief                       NS: Nutrition Specialist
Disbursement Specialist                  00: Operations Officer
EC: Economist                            OS: Operations Specialist
FMS: Financial Management Specialist     PCS: Project Cost Specialist
FP: Family Planning Specialist           PHARS: Pharmaceutical Specialist
HE: Health Economist                     PHS: Public Health Specialist
HOSS: Specialist in Hospitals            PROCS: Procurement Specialist
HS: Health Specialist                    WSS: Water/Sanitation Specialist
IA: Information Analyst                  RWSS: Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist
IS: Infrastructure Specialist            SE: Senior Economist
IDS: Inst. Development Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Lending                               178.4                    732.80
Supervision                          837.79                   1242.66
ICR                                    4.47                     12.74
Total                               1020.66                   1988.20
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Sector Policies                      O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                              O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
OFinancial                              OH   OSUOM      *N    ONA
O Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              OH   *SUOM      O N   ON lA
O Gender                          O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   * NA
O Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS*S        OU    OHU
E Supervision                                       *HS OS       OU    OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       0 U   O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    OHU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. 23 aide memoires from missions:
Aide Memoire/Identification Mission September 5-22, 1990
Aide Memoire/Identification Mission January 14-30, 1991
Aide Memoire/Preparation Mission April 15-25, 1991
Aide Memoire/Preparation Mission July 4-12, 1991
Aide Memoire/Preparation Mission September 9-22, 1991
Aide Memoire/Appraisal Mission January 13-26, 1992
Aide Memoire/June 1992
Aide Memoire/October 14-23, 1992
Aide Memoire/Launching Mission May 23-June 3, 1993
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission November 2-12, 1993
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission July 15-29, 1994
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission January 23-February 3, 1995
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission July 31 -August 11, 1995
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission February 22-March 6, 1996
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission February 21 -March 6, 1997
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission November 4-14, 1997
Aide Memoire/Supervision MIssion June 15-18, 1998
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission July 20-28, 1998
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission February 21-March 1, 1999
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission November 26-December 7, 2000
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission March 24, 2001
Aide Memoire/Supervision Mission June 1-19, 2001
Aide Memoire/ICR Mission October 15-19, 2001
2.     Staff Appraisal Report
- On Second Social Development Project Health and Nutrition. June 29, 1992
- On proposed Supplemental Loan. September 15 1999
3.     Informe de Cierre Final (prepared by Executing Agency. November, 2001.
4.     Additional Material
- Sacoto, Fernando A. "La Gesti6n de los Proyectos FASBASE y de Modernizaci6n Sectorial de
Salud. Un Testimonio." Quito, August 1996.
- Ministerio de Salud Publica. Informe Anual de Actividades. Quito, August 1999.
- Ministerio de Salud Publica. Plan Nacional de Salud 2000 - 2005. Quito, December 1999.
- Torres, Fernando (General Coordinator, FASBASE). Proyecto de Fortalecimiento y Ampliaci6n
de los Servicios Baisicos de Salud en El Ecuador (FASBASE) - Convenio de Prestamo BIRF
3510-EC. Informe Final de Gesti6n al 5 de mayo del 2000. Quito, May 2000.
- 39 -



