Page  1
                                                           August 5, 1993
Mr.
Cesar Robalino
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
    Re:   Loan No. 3510-EC (Second Social Development Project)
          Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
    Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador (the
Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank), dated February 8, 1993 (the Loan Agreement).
    We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of your request and our
recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows so as to allow the operation of the Special Account in
Banco Central del Ecuador.
    The first sentence of Section 2.02 (b) is hereby amended to read as
follows in its entirety:
     "The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco Central del Ecuador on terms
and conditions satisfactory the Bank."
    Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and
dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter
shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return One fully executed original to us.
    The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the
date the Bank notifies the Borrower in writing, that the Bank has received
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
    Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment letter
is being sent to the Minister of Public Health.
                             Very truly yours,
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Ping-Cheung Loh
                                 Director
                           Country Department IV
                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By: /s/   Cesar Robalino Gonzaga
          Minister of Finance
Date: 12 AGO 1993
cc:  Minister of Public Health.
Page  2
