Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3510-1-EC
Agreement Amending Loan Agreement
(Second Social Development Project –Health and Nutrition)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 12, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 3510-1-EC
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank have entered into a Loan Agreement (Second 
Social Development Project –Health and Nutrition), dated February 8, 1993, as amended 
(the Loan Agreement), providing for a loan in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
US$70,000,000, divided in three portions (the CP Portion of the Loan, the SCP Portion 
of the Loan and the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Loan, as such terms are defined in 
the Loan Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide additional assistance 
towards the financing of the Project by increasing the LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the 
Loan by an amount equal to US$20,200,000;
(C)
the Borrower continues to be committed to the objectives of the Project; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definition
Page  2
Section 1.01.  The term “Amending Agreement” means this Agreement Amending Loan 
Agreement (Second Social Development Project – Health and Nutrition) between the 
Borrower and the Bank, whenever used in this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 2.01. Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement: (i) an amount 
in various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the 
amount of forty-three 
million five hundred twenty eight thousand one 
hundred forty-five Dollars and seventy eight 
cents ($43,528,145.78), divided into two 
portions of: (A) one million two hundred seventy 
five thousand Dollars 
($1,275,000) (hereinafter the CP Portion of the Loan); and (B) 
forty-two 
million two hundred fifty-three thousand one hundred forty-five Dollars and 
seventy-eight cents ($42,253,145.78) (hereinafter the SCP Portion of the Loan), being 
the 
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the CP Portion of the Loan and SCP Portion 
of the 
Loan, respectively, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such 
withdrawal; and (ii) an amount equal to forty-six million 
six hundred seventy-one thousand  eight hundred fifty-four Dollars and twenty-two cents 
($46,671,854.22) (hereinafter the 
LIBOR-based SCL Portion of the Loan), 
divided in two tranches in the amounts of: (A) 
twenty-six million four 
hundred seventy-one thousand eight hundred fifty-four Dollars and  twenty-two cents 
($26,471,854.22) (hereinafter the SCL First Tranche); and (B) twenty 
million two hundred thousand Dollars ($20,200,000) (hereinafter the SCL Second 
Tranche).”
Section 2.02.  Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date 
as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.”.
Section 2.03.  A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 to read as follows:
“; provided, however, that commitment charges on the unwithdrawn amounts 
of the SCL 
Second Tranche shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement.”
 
Section 2.04.  The following sentence is added at the end of Section 2.07:
“The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the SCL Second Tranche 
in 
accordance with the relevant amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 
3 to this 
Agreement.”
Section 2.05.  Section 2.08 (b) (iv) (A) is amended to read as follows:
“(iv) 'LIBOR Total Spread' means for each Interest Period: (A) one-half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) in respect of the SCL First 
Tranche, and three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) in respect of 
the SCL Second Tranche;”
Section 2.06.  A new Section 2.09 is inserted to read as follows:
“The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of 
the amount of the SCL Second Tranche. On or promptly after the 
date of effectiveness of the 
Amending Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.”
Section 2.07.  A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.01 to read as follows:
“(c) shall carry out the activities under the Project, to be financed by 
the SCL 
Second Tranche, in accordance with the provisions of a manual, 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall establish the detailed procedures 
(including environmental construction and 
management norms for health 
facilities, and eligibility criteria for allocating resources to 
communities affected 
by malaria or other tropical diseases) for the carrying out of such 
activities in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.”
Section 2.08.  The following sentence is added at the end of Section 3.02:
“Notwithstanding the above, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants' services 
required for the activities under the Project to be financed 
by the SCL Second Tranche shall 
be governed by the provisions of the Attachment to 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”
Section 2.09.  In Schedule 1, an Attachment, as set forth in Annex 1 to this 
Amending Agreement, is added to govern the withdrawal of proceeds of the SCL Second 
Tranche, it being understood that Schedule 1 (without said Attachment) governs the 
withdrawal of proceeds of the CP Portion of the Loan, the SCP Portion of the Loan and 
the SCL First Tranche.
Section 2.10.  Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
(a)
new Parts A.1 (e) and A.3 (d) are added to the description of the Project 
to read as follows, respectively:
“(e) equipping, upgrading and rehabilitation of health facilities (local 
hospitals, 
provincial hospitals, health centers and health posts) located in poor 
communities to be 
selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the manual referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.”
“(d) provision of: (i) medicines to be distributed to the health 
facilities referred 
to in Part A.1 (e) above; and (ii) micronutrients, vaccines 
and other medical supplies to be  distributed in health facilities within the territory 
of the Borrower.”
(b)
Part C.1 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
“1. Implementation of a pilot program to provide sanitation and safe 
water facilities 
to rural areas in Health Service Areas, through: (a) construction, 
operation and maintenance  of latrines (approximately 28,800) and water supply 
facilities (including the acquisition 
and installation of manual water pumps) for 
about 205 communities of between 250 and 2,000 
inhabitants each; (b) upgrading, 
operation and maintenance of about 75 existing water supply 
facilities; and (c) 
provision of training and technical assistance to SSA staff and to 
Juntas 
on techniques (including cost recovery techniques) for the proper execution of this 
Part of the Project.”
(c)
New Parts F and G are added to the description of the Project as follows:
“Part F:
Malaria Prevention
1.
(a) Equipping, upgrading and rehabilitation of laboratories to be 
selected in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the manual 
referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement; (b) provision of medicines and 
other medical supplies to be 
distributed to health facilities (local 
hospitals, provincial hospitals, health centers and 
health posts) and laboratories 
located in at risk malaria areas for purposes of diagnosing 
and treating 
malaria; and (c) elimination of vector reservoirs.
2.
Carrying out of information, communication and education campaigns 
(including the 
promotion of active participation of affected communities in 
disease control activities) in 
at risk malaria areas for purposes of preventing 
malaria.
3.
Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of the 
laboratories and 
health facilities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part 
and of communities in affected 
areas to diagnose and treat malaria and other 
tropical diseases.
Page  4
Part G:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to manage, implement, monitor 
and evaluate  the Project, including the provision of technical assistance to carry out 
annual procurement 
audits of the Project activities.”
Section 2.11.  In Schedule 3, the amortization schedule of the SCL Second 
Tranche is inserted to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.12.  In Schedule 4, an Attachment, as set forth in Annex 3 to this 
Amending Agreement, is inserted to govern the procurement provisions in respect of the 
activities to be financed by the SCL Second Tranche.
Section 2.13.  In Schedule 5, paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (c) are amended to read as 
follows, respectively:
“(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (9) 
and Category  (11) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and Categories  (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of the 
Attachment to such Schedule 1;”
“(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $3,000,000 to 
be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule.”
ARTICLE III
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 3.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank: (a) that the manual 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement, as amended pursuant to this 
Amending Agreement, has been adopted by the Borrower; and (b) that the execution and 
delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
Section 3.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 3.1 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that the Amending 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 3.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by paragraph 3.1 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 3.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by February 10, 2000, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the 
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a later date for the 
purposes of this paragraph.  If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the 
provisions of this Section, the Loan Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Edgar Rodas 
Authorized Representative
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier Coll 
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean Region
ANNEX 1
Attachment to Schedule 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the SCL Second Tranche
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the SCL Second Tranche, the allocation of the amounts of the SCL Second 
Tranche to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
   Amount of the
SCL Second Tranche
   % of
   Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   11,020,000
90%
(2)
Goods
    5,738,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
    2,190,000
100%
(including auditing
services) and training
(4)
Operational costs
    1,050,000
90%
(5)
Fee
      202,000
Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.09 of
this Agreement
    _________
            TOTAL
   20,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Attachment, the term "operational costs" means 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project Implementation, including 
mobilization for community training, non-medical supplies, temporary labor contracts 
for Part F of the Project, rental of machinery, labor and tools for small works 
required under Part F of the Project, temporary labor contracts for Part C of the 
Project, maintenance and operation of vehicles, office supplies, and travel and 
administrative support costs.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account under the SCL Second 
Tranche to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures under 
contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review, as provided in the Attachment to 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and in respect of operational costs.
ANNEX 2
“Amortization Schedule SCL Second Tranche
Page  6
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2005
through January 15, 2016
840,000
On July 15, 2016
880,000”
ANNEX 3
Attachment to Schedule 4 
Procurement under the SCL Second Tranche
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Attachment.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
3.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Attachment or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods and works referred to in this Part B:
(a)
Bids must be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of each 
bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they 
have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
(b)
Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local representative for 
purposes of submitting bids, but may be required to have such a representative upon 
entering into contracts which they have been awarded.
(c)
Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial solvency 
certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the Borrower without re-certification by any 
Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
(d)
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties 
approved by the Borrower  must be admissible without re-certification or other 
participation by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
(e)
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods must not be required to 
be counter-guaranteed by such supplier in whole or in part. This shall not prevent 
purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from suppliers.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (except medicines, vaccines and medical supplies) estimated to cost 
$25,000 or more but less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $250,000, and bed-nets required under Part F of the Project, may 
Page  7
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
(d)
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in 
this Attachment or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in this Part C.1:
(i)
Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all 
contracts.
(ii)
The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which 
shall be at 
least twenty-one days from the date of the last 
advertisement of the 
invitation to bid.
(iii)
The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days 
in a 
newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
(iv)
Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in 
accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
2.
National Shopping
Goods (except medicines, vaccines and medical supplies) estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $78,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Medicines, vaccines and medical supplies which should be procured as an 
extension of an existing contract may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $8,638,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured under Part B 
of this Section; (ii) the first two contracts for goods except bed-nets to be procured 
Page  8
under Part C.1 (a) of this Section; (iii) each of the first two contracts for bed-nets 
for each calendar year to be procured under Part C.1 (a) of this Section; and (iv) 
each contract for works to be procured under Part C.1 (b) of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for medicines, vaccines and medical 
supplies to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.3 of 
this Section; (ii) the first two contracts for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 of this Section; and (iii) the first two 
contracts for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part C.4 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: (A)
prior to the 
selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (B) prior to 
the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, national shopping 
procedures, or procurement of small works, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Internal Approvals
With respect to the procurement of goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the SCL Second Tranche, any approval of bidding documents and contracts 
required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by the Borrower's Minister 
of Health or any person or entity he or she may designate in writing. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Attachment.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short list of consultants for services under Part G of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services of consulting firms under Part G of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services of the Pan American Health Organization and of the United Nations 
Development Program may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part G of the Project that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Attachment or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to 
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or 
person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide 
services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that 
required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay 
fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants' Association that are different from those required 
for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or her 
contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position 
in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public sector entity, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the 
conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $15,000, the terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  10
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Part F.  
Internal Approvals
Any approval of contracts or of consultant selection processes required under 
the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by the Borrower's Minister of Health or 
any person or entity he or she may designate in writing.
