Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19541
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3358-ME)
June 30, 1999
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This documen. has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso ($MN)
US$1.00 = 9.325 Pesos (May, 1999)
FISCALYEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CAPFCE    Administrative Committee of the Federal Program of School
Construction (Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de
Construcci6n de Escuelas)
CAST    Technical Services and Assistance Centers (Centros de
Asistencia y Servicios Tecnol6gicos)
CONALEP    National Professional Technical Education School (Colegio
Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica)
CONOCER    Council for Normalization and Certification of Competency
Standards (Consejo de Normalizaci6n y Certificaci6n de
Competencia Laboral)
ICR    Imnplementation Completion Report
MAI    Integral Administrative Modernization (Modernizaci6n
Administrativa Integral)
NAFIN    Financial National, National Society of Credit. (Nacional Financiera
S.N. C.)
PAZM      Program of Attention of Marginal Zones (Programa de Atencion de
Zonas Marginadas)
SHCP    Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienday
Credito Puiblico)
SITED    Interactive System of Distant Educational Television (Sistema Inter-
activo de Television Educativa a Distancia)
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President         Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director               Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager         Mr. Xavier Coll
Task Manager           Ms. Anna Sant'Anna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3358-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .....................................................                                                                      II
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................                                                             IV
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
PROJECT BACKGROUND .....................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION  ....................................................2
Original Objectives .....................................................2
Original Project Design and Organization ....................................................                                 2
Amendments .....................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION  RECORD ....................................................4
Component I: Quality Improvements ....................................................5
Component II: Expansion of CONALEP's Training Activities ..................................................... 7
Component III: Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness .................................................  10
Procurement of Goods and Services and Disbursements ....................................................                     12
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES .................................................... 12
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT .................................................... 13
Factors not subject to Government control ....................................................                               13
Factors subject to Government control ....................................................                                   13
Factors subject to implementing agency control ....................................................                          13
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................................... 13
BANK  PERFORMANCE .................................................... 14
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................                                                        14
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................... 14
LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................                                                             15
FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................                                                           16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................................                                                     17
Appendixes   A.    Mission's Aide Memoire
B.         Government's Loan Closing Report (in Spanish)
C.    Government's Comments on the ICR (in Spanish)
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3358-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Technical
Training Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3358-ME in the amount of $152 million
equivalent was approved by the Board on June 25, 1991 and became effective on
November 25, 1991. In 1995, the original loan amount was reduced to $137 million, at
the Government's request, in response to the economic crisis. The original total project
cost had been estimated at $204.5 million. The appraisal plan was to implement the
project in five and a half years. Actually, the Loan closed on December 31, 1998, after
two extensions from the original closing date of June 30, 1997. The first one-year
extension was granted on February 18, 1997 and the second extension, for 6 months, was
approved on March 23, 1998. Both extensions were justified taking into account that the
project was making considerable progress during the present administration beginning in
1995 and activities needed more time to mature and produce lasting results, especially
with respect to quality improvements and the modernization of the system. The final
disbursement took place on May 12, 1999, and a balance of $3 million was canceled.
Thus, at closing the Loan was reduced to US$134.0 million. The Loan financed 64
percent of total project cost and the Government contributions amounted to 36 percent,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 74 percent and 26 percent respectively (actual
project costs by component and financier are included in Tables 7A and 7B).
This ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD/LCCIC Consultant) after a
final mission that took place on April 26-30, 1999 in which she participated together with
Anna Sant'Anna (Task Manager), and Catalina Toledo (LCCIC Consultant). Maria
Colchao (LCSHD) provided assistance with annexes and report processing. This report
was reviewed by Anna Sant'Anna and Eduardo Velez (LCSHD/LCCIC Sector Leader).
It is based on the findings of the project completion mission, a Government completion
report, several studies financed by the project, as well as documents in the project file.
The completion mission Aide Memoire is included as Appendix A. The evaluation of
project execution prepared by the borrower, as well as several documents presented to the
completion mission, are available in the project files and an executive summary prepared
by the National Professional Technical Education School (CONALEP) is included as
Appendix B. The Borrower was requested to comment on the Bank ICR and the
response is included in Appendix C.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3358-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
In 1991, when this project was approved, Mexico was emerging from a period of
economic and financial crisis, due to the drop in oil prices during the eighties and the
onset of inflation.  The Government took major initiatives  aimed at economic
stabilization.  But industrial development and foreign trade were hampered  by
deficiencies in infrastructure and available technology, low productivity, and scarcity of
qualified labor. Training improvements, particularly in general and technical skills, were
considered essential to reduce the constraints on industrial production growth. The Bank
program to support Mexico's economic restructuring comprised substantial assistance in
human resources, including increased access to pre-primary education and improvements
in the quality and efficiency of basic education. In non-formal training, the Bank
supported the system for National Professional Technical Education School (CONALEP)
almost since its inception.  In the early 1990s the system needed modernization,
restructuring and better linkages with industry to improve course relevance and financial
sustainability.
Project Objectives and Design
The central project objective was to further improve quality, efficiency and
relevance of CONALEP training programs. The first two technical education projects had
helped build the physical infrastructure of the training system and its administrative
structure. The third project allocated over 50 percent of financial resources to improve
quality.  Additionally it recognized the need for selective expansion of training,
particularly on-the-job training, while increasing efforts to maximize cost recovery from
industry. Also, it identified the need to improve the efficiency of training by developing
cost accounting practices and a plan to reduce unit costs and increase cost recovery. This
was to be achieved through three components:
a) Quality Improvements included review and revision of all course syllabi, lesson
plans and didactic materials for all training careers, revamping of instructor training,
and creation of eight Technical Services and Assistance Centers (CAST) in response
to regional industrial demand for quality assurance and training;



v
b) Expansion of CONALEP Training Activities, particularly to serve the assembly
(maquiladora) and tourism industries, but also encompassing the creation of other
programs, such as training for marginal populations and a variety of courses on food
production, pond fish farming, and training for self-employment. Additional facilities
for the eight CAST and for workshops, laboratories and classrooms would be built
with Government financing.
c) Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness would be achieved through:
(i) decentralization of equipment maintenance, transfer of responsibility for
maintenance to each of the training centers, and strengthening (with additional
construction and equipment) eight regional maintenance centers for repair of major
equipment; (ii) improvement of CONALEP administrative capacity through the
development of a Computer and Communications Center and the upgrading of all
administrative processes at central, regional, and local levels; (iii) improvement of
cost recovery for training programs, through special agreements with private firms to
share costs of worker training and other services; the target was to cover 20 percent of
CONALEP operating costs; to monitor progress of this sub-component, CONALEP
would improve evaluation of the efficiency of its training programs and its cost
accounting system; improvements would be designed using the findings of studies
and a plan to reduce unit costs and increase cost recovery; and (iv) improving
efficiency in student flows and graduate placement.
Implementation Experience and Results
The project was implemented during the 1991-98 period to consolidate
achievements of two earlier technical training projects by increasing efficiency and
quality, and modernizing CONALEP training and administrative activities. To carry out
these improvements, the project relied on the findings and recommendations of 15 studies
conducted between 1991 and 1994 and four additional studies completed during the
1995-98 period. Of special interest is a study on labor market demand for technicians
completed in 1995 which helped redesign courses making them more relevant to the
requirements of industry.  Project activities are described below  for the three
components: (a) Quality Improvements; (b) Expansion of Training Activities; and (c)
Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness.
Quality Improvements in Training. Improvements were facilitated by a drastic
reduction in the number of technical careers offered by CONALEP, from over 149 in the
early 1990s, to 29 in the academic year 1997-98. The careers selected were those that
best responded to the demands of the labor market. With the assistance of panels of
experts at national and state levels, which included curricula specialists, representatives
of the productive sectors and education professionals, new curricula, materials and
textbooks were developed and workshop and laboratory equipment was renewed and/or
re-deployed among the training centers. Redundant equipment was donated to other
public institutions. Adjustments in the career mix were also greatly facilitated by the
flexible staffing system adopted by CONALEP, consisting of providing fixed term
contracts for part-time trainers working in the productive sectors, and giving them
pedagogical training. Enrollment targets for the regular and upgraded programs were



vi
surpassed by 12 percent and 44 percent respectively. However, completion rates in
regular courses were still low at project closing.  Indeed, graduates from regular
programs comprised only 44.8 percent of enrollment in 1998, 31 percent short of the
target of 65 percent set at project appraisal. Remedial measures adopted recently to
encourage retention and graduation are still being tested.  Specifically, in 1997
CONALEP introduced a high school equivalency option for technical graduates,
providing them with the opportunity to have access to higher education upon completion
of a few additional requirements. This measure is expected to affect positively the
terminal efficiency rate of the program. On the other hand, the efficiency of upgraded
and on-the-job training was far greater than that of regular programs: 100 percent of the
workers receiving training completed the courses. Targets for training of teachers were
consistently surpassed. Beginning in 1995, teacher training dealt with: (a) pedagogic
training for science and technology; (b) basic computer competence; (c) professional
updating and technological specialization; and (d) teaching evaluation and certification.
Additionally, six packages of didactic materials were developed and diploma courses for
teachers were offered in higher education institutes. Teachers were also trained using
distance training programs and received orientation in the Internet. As part of quality
enhancement, the project assisted in the establishment of eight CAST based on a study
carried out in 1992.  These centers provide training, assistance on technological
development, and quality assurance to industry. In the last three years, some CAST
achieved an advanced stage of development, including substantive links with industry
and cost recovery for services rendered. But other CAST are still developing and will
need more time to reach a mature stage. Overall, the proportion of cost recovered from
the services offered by the CAST increased from 12 percent in 1994 to 46 percent in
1998.
Expansion of Training Activities. CONALEP selectively expanded training activities
in key sectors of the economy, consolidated and restructured courses, and discontinued
several courses that had become obsolete or could be better carried out by other
institutions. Although the strategy was to maximize the use of existing infrastructure,
additional buildings were added (with Government financing) for teacher training,
workshops, laboratories, classrooms and auxiliary services. Also, the Loan financed the
construction of the Computer and Communications Center at central headquarters.
Emphasis was placed on re-equipping facilities and developing a comprehensive
computerized inventory system to keep track of the current condition of equipment,
maintenance schedule and replacement requirements. Training expansion comprised
courses for the assembly (maquiladora) and tourism industries, on-the-job training for
employed workers, training for unemployed workers and marginal populations, and for
self-employment. Some training programs (in agriculture and fishing) were discontinued
because other institutions offered similar courses, with greater comparative advantages.
In addition, modular programs originally established to enable workers to study technical
careers after working hours, were discontinued because demand proved to be low and
also because students completing these modules could not be certified as the norms of
CONALEP do not allow for partial certification.
Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness. This third technical training
project had the objective of strengthening the administration of CONALEP and



vii
increasing its efficiency, including a plan to reduce costs and maximize cost recovery.
To implement decentralization of equipment maintenance, each training center was made
responsible for maintaining its own equipment. Additionally, eight regional maintenance
centers were established. The first approach is currently working well, but the second
strategy was not successful since it proved impractical and costly to transport major
equipment to the regional centers for repair. These centers are performing regular
maintenance and repair of equipment in CONALEP facilities located nearby, often using
students under the guidance of instructors. Major maintenance in training centers is
being carried out through contracts with equipment suppliers or other contractors. The
improvement of CONALEP administrative capacity initiated by this project is a
continuous process that has been significantly advanced through the development of the
computer and communications system, the promotion of quality assurance, and a
comprehensive effort to modernize the administration. As part of the administrative
reform, CONALEP operations were decentralized from federal to state level in 1998.
Although it is early to assess the impact of decentralization, it is expected that it will
result in more efficient management. Less progress has been made in the areas of cost
recovery, cost accounting, and in improving student flows and graduate placement.
Additionally, one of the project objectives was to reduce administrative costs and keep
them at a level of about 10 percent. Although this target has not yet been achieved,
progress was made: in 1998 administrative costs were 25 percent, compared to 57
percent in 1997.
Assessment of Outcome
Overall the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project resulted in a
stronger and modernized technical training structure, an appropriate culmination of two
decades of IBRD assistance to the CONALEP. Qualitative and quantitative achievements
are significant. However, deficiencies in cost accounting and methodological limitations
of the surveys of graduates preclude a more complete and objective analysis of the
program efficiency and of its impact.
A significant outcome of this project was the establishment of the CAST network
consisting of eight centers that provide training, technical assistance and quality control
to micro, small and medium industries. After only three to four years of operations, and
taking into account differences in the performance and cost recovery capabilities among
the CAST, it is clear that the model has a great potential to provide needed and important
contributions to industry conducive to higher productivity.
Another significant development was the establishment of the Computer and
Communications Center which provides computer and communication services based on
updated technology and proper equipment standardization. The center is also used as a
training facility for students pursuing careers in computing and for staff training.
Moreover, to support training programs, the Center operates an educational TV station
and an interactive system of distant educational television (SITED). These innovations
have changed the operational dynamics of CONALEP and are expected to facilitate the
decentralization process.



viii
Another program spearheaded by this project is a training program for marginal
populations established in 1996 and counting now with 110 mobile units. This program
succeeded in reaching a large number of people residing in very low income
neighborhoods, offering them training in a variety of work skills in coordination with
other agencies that serve the same target population (e.g., health, social development).
For further application and expansion of this valuable experience, it will be necessary for
CONALEP to identify an appropriate niche among the country's agencies concerned with
social development of marginal populations, in line with the main purpose and functions
of CONALEP which should remain strongly anchored in improving industrial
productivity.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The effects of the 1994-95 economic crisis affected the pace of implementation
and disbursements of this as well as other projects in Mexico, requiring an 18-month
extension of the closing date. The rhythm of activities picked up after 1995 and at
project completion most of the agreed actions were completed. The execution of studies
was periodically reviewed by Bank missions and their quality was considered
satisfactory. Nevertheless, methodological problems persisted in some studies and were
frequently discussed during missions. One that suffered the most problems was a tracer
study of graduates and their insertion in the productive sector, which did not include
appropriate control groups, thus preventing the results from yielding firm conclusions
regarding the relative efficiency of the training programs.
Summary of Findings
Overall, cost recovery from all training and services offered by CONALEP
reached 20 percent in 1998, meeting the target set at appraisal. The potential for
achieving a higher cost recovery rate still exists, particularly for on-the-job training and
technical assistance offered by the CAST to the productive sector.  Indeed,  the
proportion of cost recovered from the services offered by the CAST increased from 12
percent in 1994 to 46 percent in 1998. The most well equipped and staffed CAST located
near large industrial concentrations achieved the highest levels of cost recovery,
reflecting the importance of service quality and location in increasing efficiency. During
the 1994-98 period, the eight CAST offered 5,146 training courses attended by 65,389
workers and carried out 3,565 technical assistance events for industry.
Throughout project implementation, CONALEP enrolled 1,292,269 students in its
regular technical courses. Enrollment targets for the regular and upgraded programs were
surpassed by 12 percent and 44 percent respectively. However, completion rates in
regular programs were still low at project closing (43.8 percent in 1998, compared to a
target of 65 percent). This is due to a high dropout rate among students, which represents
a heavy cost for the institution. Remedial measures have been recently adopted to
ameliorate this problem, but it is too early to assess their impact.



ix
Key Lessons Learned
a) An example of best practice in identifying needed reforms in technical training
programs is the use of panels of experts at national and state levels, including
curricula specialists, representatives of the productive sectors and education
professionals;
b) The expansion of the scope of CONALEP activities transforned the institution from a
strictly pre-work technical training agency to a comprehensive system offering in pre-
and on-the-job training, technical assistance and quality and productivity
enhancement to industry, and this represents a good model; the industrial services
provided by the most advanced CAST are an example that can be used to assist the
development of the entire CAST network in different regions of the country;
c) With regard to maintenance, an important lesson was learned from the lack of success
of regional maintenance centers and the better results achieved by assigning building
and equipment maintenance responsibilities to the each training center allowing them
to use private contractors and providers for maintenance of major equipment.
d) Although observations and experiences indicate that there were substantial
improvements in the quality and relevance of CONALEP training, a more conclusive
analysis of costs in relation to outcomes would have provided a firmer basis to guide
the allocation of resources among programs and fine-tune training activities.
e) The flexible staffing policies adopted by CONALEP constitute a key factor in the
modernization of the institution and provide an important lesson concerning the
central role played by personnel policies in the process of institutional change.
f) With regard to studies, particularly when they involve costly surveys designed to
assess outcomes, it is important to pay careful attention to methodological aspects,
including sample selection and control groups, so that results are both reliable and
conclusive.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.   In 1991, at the time this project was approved, Mexico was emerging from a
period of economic and financial crisis, mainly as a consequence of a drop in oil prices in
the early 1980s and again in 1986. Economic growth had decelerated and inflation
moved upward the reducing purchasing power and the standard of living of the majority
of the people. In these circumstances, the Mexican Government took major initiatives
aimed at stabilization and structural adjustments to the economy. The strategy followed
was to strengthen the economic base in order to improve quality of life, promote trade
globalization to stimulate market development and competition, and deregulate private
sector activities to create a favorable environment for capital investment and growth. But
industrial development and foreign trade faced the serious obstacles of inadequate
infrastructure and levels of technology, and scarcity of qualified labor. As a result,
productivity remained low. As many as 58 percent newcomers to the labor force had
only primary (11 percent) or less than primary education (47 percent). There were about
23 percent of new entrants with some lower or upper secondary general education but
lacking technical skills and this group was experiencing high unemployment rates (30-45
percent). Improvements in general and technical education were needed in order to better
prepare the fast growing labor force for work. In this context, public programs and
actions to improve the quality and the outcomes of pre-work, on-the-job and re-training
programs became priorities.
2.    The Bank assistance strategy for Mexico supported the restructuring of the
economy and placed substantial emphasis on the development of human resources,
including increased access to pre-primary education and increased quality and efficiency
of basic education (grades 1-9). In technical education, the Bank supported the
CONALEP training system through two prior projects, but the system needed to be
modernized in line with the technological requirements of the 1990s. The most pressing
needs were identified in the areas of instructor training, equipment upgrading,
instructional materials, maintenance systems, improved course selection and design, and
stronger linkages with the private sector to enhance training relevance and financial
sustainability.



2
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
3.    The central objective of the project was to assist in the modernization of
CONALEP, consolidating the quantitative and qualitative gains achieved thus far and
further improve the quality, efficiency and relevance of training. The specific objectives
were to: (a) uniformly upgrade the quality of high level skills training and middle level
technician training to meet the rapidly changing needs of the labor market; (b) selectively
expand the scope of CONALEP training activities in key sectors, especially on-the-job
training on a cost-recovery basis, and initiate a modular program to enhance the skills of
experienced and employed workers; and (c) strengthen the administration of CONALEP,
increase efficiency, reduce costs, and improve cost recovery. While the two prior
projects focused almost exclusively on building the physical infrastructure of CONALEP
and its administrative base, this third project allocated 51 percent of total project costs to
quality improvements and another 31 percent to measures designed to increase the
administrative efficiency and effectiveness of the institution. An innovative feature of
this project was its proposed enhancement of cost recovery from industry. Expansion
goals aimed at a 67 percent increase in total enrollment resulting, to a large extent, from
better utilization of existing facilities.
Assessment of Original Objectives
4.    The project's original objectives were correct in placing major emphasis on
quality and efficiency improvements to the CONALEP system. Additionally, they
rightly identified the need to expand the functions of the institution to cover on-the-job
training and in proposing that a share of total costs of such training be recovered from
the private sector. An evaluation of the efficiency of CONALEP training prograrns using
an improved cost accounting system was also appropriately defined as a project
objective. These objectives would be pursued based on findings from studies and a plan
to reduce unit costs and increase cost recovery.
Original Project Design and Organization
5.    The project objectives would be achieved through three components to be
implemented on the basis of the results of eleven studies addressing issues of quality,
efficiency and impact of CONALEP programs. The three components were:
a) Quality Improvements (US$104.4 million including contingencies - 51 percent of
total costs). This component would analyze the training needs of the labor force and
adopt new modes  and options of training based on concrete plans for the
development of the productive sectors while, at the same time, improving the overall
quality of CONALEP training, through: (a) Development of Instructional Materials
including review and revision of all course syllabi, daily lesson plans, and evaluation
materials for 97 career programs; (b) Instructor Training to revamp the existing ad-
hoc instructor training program and add an instructor training center to accommodate



3
100 instructors at one time, functioning in conjunction with existing regional outreach
facilities and eight technological development and production maintenance centers;
this complex would provide pre-service training for about 4,700 instructors per year
and in-service training for another 4,000, including company trainers; and (c) Eight
Technological Services and Assistance Centers (CAST) to provide on-the-job training
and technical assistance for industry.
b) Expansion of CONALEP Training Activities (US$63.8 million, including
contingencies - 31.2 percent of total costs). This component would provide for
training to meet the needs of the assembly (maquiladora) and tourism industries, as
well as part-time training programs for workers unable to attend regular career
courses; it also contemplated other training programs for the unemployed and
marginal populations, and a variety of courses on food production, pond fish farming,
and training for self-employment. The physical expansion of training facilities would
consist of construction and equipment for 70 additional shops, 50 laboratories, 191
classrooms, and an additional 101 training centers (financed by the Government).
c) Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness (UJS$36.3 million, including
contingencies - 17.8 percent of total costs).  This component consisted of the
following activities: (a) Decentralization of Equipment Maintenance Services and
Expansion of Production Programs to strengthen maintenance services with the
creation of a maintenance unit in each of 252 training centers to be operated by
instructors and students. For repair of major equipment, eight regional maintenance
centers would be improved through additional construction and equipment. Besides
selective maintenance services, these centers would have the additional functions of
producing furniture and equipment for CONALEP and other public training facilities;
(b) Improvement of CONALEP Administrative Capacity through   modem
communications and more efficient and effective administrative procedures at central,
regional and local levels. Based on feasibility studies, the project would finance the
construction and equipment for a computer and communication center at CONALEP
central offices; (c) Improvement of Cost Recovery and Cost Accounting through a
rapid increase in number of special agreements (convenios) between CONALEP and
public and private enterprises to share worker training costs; the share of costs thus
recovered was expected to increase at a rate of 15 percent per year, reaching 20
percent of CONALEP total operating costs; this process would be monitored through
an efficient cost accounting system and better evaluations of the efficiency of
CONALEP training programs; these improvements would be based on the findings of
a study and a plan of action to reduce unit costs and increase cost recovery; and (d)
Improving Efficiency of Student Flows and Graduate Placement, based on a study on
completion rates and student placement.
Amendments
6.    The project legal documents were amended on September 18, 1998 in order to
include in the procurement schedule allowances for direct purchase of copyright didactic
materials, such as library books, in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. On
December 9, 1998 a second amendment was approved to introduce the category "civil



4
works" in Schedule I and to incorporate in the procurement schedule procedures for civil
works, to allow for the financing of the Computer and Communications Center. In
addition, there were two extensions to the closing date. The first was a one-year
extension approved February 18, 1997, and the second a six-month extension establishing
December 31, 1998 as the closing date. The first extension was justified in view of the
delays in project implementation that resulted from the 1994-95 economic crisis and
parallel budgetary constraints. These factors, combined with the devaluation of the
Mexican peso, had slowed down the pace of disbursements. The second extension was
necessary to complete the implementation of an action plan for the administrative
modernization of CONALEP, started in 1997. The completion of such plan was
considered essential for the successful achievement of the project objectives. Finally, on
December 12, 1997 the Bank agreed on a currency conversion amendment and on
January 28, 1998, it agreed to reallocate Loan funds among disbursement categories.
These two amendments were formalized by telex dated March 2, 1998.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
7.    The Bank has assisted the development of CONALEP since 1981 through three
projects, and a progression can be detected as to the significance of project objectives
and outcomes.  The first project in 1981-85 was mainly intended to build the
infrastructure for technical training; it involved new construction, remodeling of existing
facilities, equipping 122 training centers (compared to 99 originally programmed), and
the construction of the national offices of CONALEP in Metepec, State of Mexico.
Enrollment targets were surpassed, from the original goal of 70,000 students to 93,000.
The second project was carried out during 1985-91 and had as its main objective to meet
the growing demand for technical training. Enrollment surpassed by 8.5 percent the
original target and pedagogical training of teachers stepped up significantly. The third
project, the object of this report, was implemented in 1991-98 with the central objective
of consolidating the system expansion by increasing training efficiency and quality and
by modernizing the administration of CONALEP.
8.    Planned improvements in quality of training and administration, as well as the
expansion of training to meet the needs of the assembly (maquiladora) and tourism
industries was greatly facilitated by the consolidation of the careers offered by
CONALEP, which resulted in a reduction from over 149 to 29 careers selected on the
basis of the results and recommendations of specific studies and panels of experts.
During the first three years of project implementation (1991-94), 15 studies were carried
out (compared to 11 planned) and in 1995-98 another 4 studies were completed. These
studies dealt with a variety of topics including the improvement of student recruitment
and retention in the regular technical programs; development of a graduate tracer system
to evaluate training outcomes in terms of graduate performance and insertion in the
productive sector; design of a modular system of technical training tailored to the needs
of the employed labor force; demand analysis of CONALEP training services to assist in
making it more responsive to the requirements of industry; promotion of self-
employment and entrepreneurship among graduates; and several studies to define needed
improvements in administration, provide technical assistance and services to industry,



5
promote women's participation in technological careers, and design training for marginal
zones. The results of a study on labor market demand for technicians by career and
states, completed in 1995, were used in redesigning courses making them more relevant
to the needs of industry. All studies were periodically reviewed by Bank missions, that
offered comments and suggestions. Supervision missions found these studies generally
satisfactory, with some exceptions mentioned below.
9.   Implementation is described in the following paragraphs for each of the three
project components: (a) Quality Improvements; (b) Expansion of CONALEP Training
Activities, and (c) Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness.
Component I: Quality Improvements
10.   The first component dealing with quality improvements comprised the following
activities: (a) development of instructional materials; (b) training of instructors; and (c)
creation of Technological Services and Assistance Centers (CAST).  Regarding
instructional materials, course curricula and career programs, there were clear
improvements throughout the project period. Between 1989 and 1994 an academic
reform was carried out, consisting of expansion and diversification of the educational
choices offered by CONALEP and 146 careers were designed. In 1995, under a new
Government Administration, CONALEP began to reassess its career programs and
reversed the trend by carrying out a drastic reduction in the number of careers offered,
concentrating its efforts on 69 careers and eliminating courses that were already available
through other institutions or that had become obsolete. Fields such as agro-industry and
fishing, as well as other careers with irrelevant content and obsolete equipment, were
dropped from the program.
11.   During 1996, the academic reform continued, following recommendations of
panels of experts comprising curricula specialists, representatives of the productive
sectors and education professionals. These recommendations led to the selection of 29
careers which best responded to the demands of the labor market. The reform was made
effective in the academic year 1997-98. CONALEP concentrated its training in two of
the most important sectors of the Mexican economy, dedicating 70 percent of its courses
to manufacturing and 30 percent to services industry (predominantly tourism and
computer related careers). Resources were re-deployed to improve workshop and
laboratory equipment pertinent to the careers which had the most demand. Redundant
equipment was donated to other public institutions that could make good used of it. The
restructuring of careers was made possible, to a large extent, by the flexible staffing
system adopted by CONALEP, which consists of recruiting part-time trainers, most of
them employed in the private sector, and offering them fixed term contracts for specific
courses. The profiles of the instructors contracted emphasize technical abilities and their
performance as teachers is strengthened through pedagogic training offered by
CONALEP.



6
Development of Instructional Materials
12.   The academic reform required the development of new curricula that balanced
technical training with socio-humanistic education and skills practice. In addition, other
activities related to quality improvements were carried out, such as the development of
study plans, laboratory guides, pedagogical guides, evaluation guides, and training
guides. Textbooks specially designed for technical training were also developed,
producing innovative materials that are much in demand in Mexico as well as in other
Latin American countries.
Instructor Training
13.   Training of teachers and instructors was carried out through three consecutive
programs: an educational staff development program in 1994; a training updating,
development and specialization program in 1995; and an integrated program for teacher
training and development in 1996-98. While the original target was to train 51,000
teachers per year, in 1998 the teacher training program expanded to 140,947 teachers (a
276 percent increase).  The third program integrated the following activities: (a)
pedagogic training for science and technology; (b) basic computer skills; (c) professional
updating and technological specialization; and (d) teaching evaluation and certification.
Also, in 1998 CONALEP organized a diploma course on Updating of Teaching Abilities
in cooperation with the Virtual University of the Technological Institute of Monterrey
and the technical support of the Latin American Institute of Educational Communication.
Additionally, 1350 teachers and principals received training through distance education
and were certified as trainers of teachers and instructors. TV distance training was also
provided for 239 training centers, 115 external institutions, and 4,319 students and
teachers. Topics covered included: educational TV, educational use of multimedia,
preparation of teachers and managers for the XXI century and virtual worlds, and
introduction to the Internet.
14.   Achievements of this second component also include the design of 144 teacher
profiles (of 130 planned), the evaluation of 17,987 teachers, and the preparation of six
packages of didactic materials for training and updating of teachers. For continued
education, CONALEP benefited from the support of its Interactive System of Distance
Educational Television (SITED) which comprises 150 programs of distance education
with a minimum duration of 2 hours each. In addition, the distance education approach
was used as a tool for exchange of academic knowledge and experiences among
instructors and teachers.
Technological Development and Assistance Centers
15.   The creation of Technological Services and Assistance Centers (CAST) was
based on a 1992 study which defined the functions of these centers as providers of
training, technical assistance and quality assurance to industry. The project financed the
study as well as the buildings (with Government counterpart funds), equipment and
furnishings for eight centers in the following cities: Cuatitlan Izcalli, Zapopan,
Matamoros, Guadalupe, Ciudad Juarez, Le6n, Tijuana, and Coatzacoalcos. The CAST in



7
Ciudad Juarez and Le6n were built separately from the CONALEP regular training
centers. In Matamoros, Guadalupe, Tijuana and Coatzacoalcos they were located in
lands adjacent to existing training centers and in Cuautitlan Izcalli and Zapopan the
CAST occupies remodeled facilities of pre-existing CONALEP training centers. The
activities of the CAST vary according to the staffing and equipment of each center and
the demand from industries located in their area of influence. Four CAST were
completed in 1993 and four in 1994, with federal financing. Their specialization includes
metal-mechanics, metallurgic, production and transformation processes (e.g., design and
development of shoe prototypes, simulation of computerized manufacturing, chemical
analysis of metallic materials and of contaminants, plastics, and others), installation and
maintenance, electronics, telecommunications, and computers. Since their inception
three years ago, some CAST were able to achieve a fairly advanced stage of development
(as for instance the one in Ciudad Juarez) and establish solid links with the productive
sector; they have also shown a strong entrepreneurial sense for seeking cost recovery for
the services rendered. But other CAST are still developing and will need more time to
reach a mature stage. Overall, the share of total operating cost recovered from the
services offered by the centers increased from 12 percent in 1994 to 46 percent in 1998.
During the 1994-98 period the CAST served 3,565 trainees with 5,146 training courses of
an average duration of 42 hours each, and carried out 3,565 technical assistance events
for industry.
Component II: Expansion of CONALEP's Training Activities
16.   To accommodate the selective expansion of training described earlier, CONALEP
primarily used existing infrastructure developed through earlier projects. Additions to
that infrastructure were built with Govermnent financing and, in most cases, exceeded the
original targets. The following facilities were built: 1 center for instructor training, 8
regional maintenance centers, 8 CAST, remodeling of 132 regular training centers
(compared to 101 planned) , 106 workshops (compared to 70 planned), 168 laboratories
(compared to 50 planned), 332 classrooms (compared to 191 planned), and 1,407
ancillary facilities (compared to 1,204 planned).  In addition, the Bank loan financed
construction and equipment of a central building to house the Information and
Communications Center (described under the third component) at CONALEP
headquarters in Metepec, and 110 mobile units (compared to 60 planned) for the training
program in marginal zones. The Loan also financed the procurement of computers to
strengthen CONALEP national network. During the project period, 544 CONALEP
facilities were re-equipped, and 88 workshops and laboratories related to the CAST
received between 45 percent and 93 percent of the equipment required for training and
technical assistance to industry. The replaced equipment was redistributed to other
centers or donated to other public institutions. A new equipment inventory system
(described in para. 24) and a separate inventory for computers are now used to keep track
of the location, condition, maintenance schedule, and need for replacement of
equipment.
17.   As part of the project, CONALEP expanded the scope of its training activities to
include: (a) training to meet the demands of the assembly (maquiladora) and tourism



8
industries, involving on-the-job employee training and also training for small enterprises,
in coordination with larger manufacturing plants; (b) regular 3-year technical careers; (c)
training for marginal populations; and (d) training for self-employment. Other training
programs such as training in food production, agriculture and pond fish farming were
discontinued because other institutions offered similar courses, with greater comparative
advantages. In addition, modular programs, established to enable workers to study
technical careers after working hours, were discontinued because of the low demand and
the fact that students completing these modules could not be certified because the norms
of CONALEP do not allow partial certification.
18.   Training for Assembly (Maquiladoras) and Tourism Industries. This training
program was redesigned and expanded based on a survey of 250 industries with over 50
workers in ten different production sectors. The study, completed in 1994, showed that
industry demanded courses dealing with motivation, discipline, responsibility for quality,
industrial safety and specific skills. After 1995, the training needs of the assembly
(maquiladora) industry was met mostly through the restructuring of regular programs.
To guide the design of training for the tourism industry, another study was completed in
1994 and proved useful to adjust the program offered by CONALEP training taking into
account numerous other training programs available in the field, offered by both public
and private institutions. The results of this study led CONALEP to reduce its tourism
training to two technical professional careers -- hotel and food and beverages.
19.   Regular Technical Careers. The regular technical professional programs that
prepare technicians for productive employment were reviewed and redefined into 29
careers and the new structure became effective in 1997.  The consolidation and
concurrent changes in the curricula enhanced the quality of the training and the prestige
of the institution. Indeed, while in 1993 CONALEP was the last educational option
among secondary students, in a recent survey it is their third choice, after the national
university and the Politecnico. Currently, each career is organized in modules devoted to
specific skills for productive work. Each module leads students to concentrate on a
concrete productive process and the number of modules for each career varies from 8 to
25. All occupational careers are offered in six semesters and consist of three levels:
during the first two semesters, students achieve semi-skilled competence, after the fourth
semester they reach the skilled level, and at graduation they qualify as supervisors and
middle level technicians. Since 1997, CONALEP incorporated an equivalency program
consisting of six elective courses (one per semester) which enable students who so desire
to obtain a high school diploma which permits them to enroll in higher education. The
elective program was adopted to decrease early desertion by those students who believe
they would later want to pursue university studies. Thus far, however, only a small
percentage of students (6 percent in 1998) take these elective courses.
20.   On-the-Job Training. The development of this program was based on the links
between CONALEP and the public and private sectors and is carried out by the CAST
network and CONALEP training centers at the request of and in coordination with
private enterprises and public institutions. Training takes place, in most cases, at the
place of work and 34 percent takes place in or through the CAST. A portion of the costs
of these courses is recovered from industry and other client organizations (discussed



9
under component C). In 1998 CONALEP offered 4,493 on-the-job training courses,
which represents almost a ten-fold increase compared to 1991, when only 542 courses
were given. The number of workers trained increased from 10,573 to 67,284.
21.   Training for Marginal Populations. In 1993 and 1994 CONALEP conducted a
study to determine the feasibility of establishing a program to train residents of marginal
rural and urban areas. The Program of Attention to Marginal Zones (PAZM) began in
1995 with pilot testing and was expanded nationwide in 1996. Currently PAZM
operates out the 260 CONALEP training centers, using mobile units to reach populations
in remote marginal areas. The resources of this program consist of 110 mobile units
(equipped trailers), 80 used for training and 30 for medical services, and about 800 staff.
This component surpassed the appraisal target of 60 mobile units. At the community
level, the program works in coordination with other institutions that work with marginal
populations with similar development objectives.  The training offered is defined
according to needs expressed by community members, including electricity, carpentry,
social development and others. CONALEP students participate in the program during
their required public service duty, assisting the communities where training is taking
place. From 1995 to 1998 a total of 388,101 persons were trained in 16,132 marginal
communities and 278,729 persons received health services offered in parallel with skills
training.
22.   Training for Self-employment. This is a training program directed to self-
employment which started in 1991 to encourage the formation of micro-enterprises
among CONALEP graduates. The program began with 56 courses in 1991-92, increased
to 240 courses in 1992-93, and to 260 courses in 1993-94. In 1995 however, program
activities came to a halt due to the economic crisis and several problems facing the
program. Students often met with difficulties in securing financing for their micro-
enterprises, which led to low motivation. There were also weaknesses in the abilities of
trainers with respect to practical advice on operating micro-enterprises and on preparing
realistic financial plans and work programs that could lead to the establishment of viable
enterprises. A survey taken in 1994 indicated that only 44 percent of the students who
had taken the course on self-employment had a favorable opinion of the program. Other
measures of outcomes were also low: in 1991-92 only 193 micro-enterprises were
created out of almost 7,000 participants (a 2.7 percent success rate); in 1992-93 the
success rate dropped to 1.7 percent, although it increased to 9 percent in 1993-94. At
that point, CONALEP realized that the program needed substantial revision and devoted
the 1995-97 period to redesigning the program in consultation with other institutions
active in the field. In 1996-97 the program was reinstated with improved quality
standards, after trainers received 23 courses. The benefits of this reform are reflected in
the results for 1998 which show that, among 6,708 course participants, 1,363 enterprises
were created (a success rate of 20.3 percent). Improved results can also be attributed to
the links which CONALEP established with credit programs including those operated by
NAFIN. The restructured program emphasizes a practical approach to training on a cost
recovery basis. It was also opened to external applicants, and provided for direct contacts
between students and entrepreneurs.



10
Component III: Increasing CONALEP Efficiency and Effectiveness
23.   This third component was intended to strengthen the administration of CONALEP
and increase its efficiency, including implementation of a plan to reduce costs and
maximize cost recovery.  It comprised the following sub-components:  (a)
decentralization of equipment maintenance and expansion of production programs; (b)
improvement of CONALEP administrative capacity; (c) improvement of cost recovery
and cost accounting for training activities; and (d) improvement of the efficiency of
student flows and graduate placement.
24.   Decentralization of Equipment Maintenance. Two strategies were used to
improve maintenance of equipment. The first consisted of establishing eight regional
maintenance centers, and the second was to make each training center responsible for the
maintenance of its own equipment. The first approach worked only partially, since the
centers are not functioning regionally but only cover the maintenance needs of the
training centers located nearby. This limited range reflects the high transport costs
associated with hauling heavy equipment over long distances.  As it turned out, the
regional maintenance centers were unable to compete with maintenance services
contracted with equipment suppliers. The eight regional maintenance centers have the
additional function of providing technical practice for CONALEP students through the
production of furniture and tools. The success of the second strategy involved
strengthening the training centers to perform their own preventive and repair
maintenance, often using the staff and students, and to contract out maintenance of heavy
equipment to equipment suppliers. Another improvement was the establishment at the
federal level, of a comprehensive and sophisticated computerized equipment diagnosis
and inventory system. This system keeps track of the location, maintenance status, age,
and need for replacement or updating of each piece of equipment and is updated twice a
year. The director of each training center is directly responsible for the equipment in the
center. The inventory of computers is handled separately by the Infornation and
Communications Center, and there is another inventory system capturing equipment
costs, that is controlled by the accounting office.
25.  Improvement of CONALEP Administrative Capacity. This is a continuous
process that has been advanced by achievements in the development of the computer and
communication system, the promotion of quality assurance, and a comprehensive effort
to modernize the administration. Progress has been less evident in other areas, including:
(a) improvement of cost recovery; (b) cost accounting; and (c) improving the efficiency
of student flows and graduate placement. The Computer and Communication Center was
an important part of the administrative renewal of CONALEP. Building and equipping
were completed by 1994. Most of the computer equipment and software procured prior
to 1994 proved rapidly obsolete as a result of the rapid advances in technology during
those years, and had to be replaced. Currently, the center continues to provide CONALEP
with computer and communication services based on updated technology, proper
standardization of equipment, and protection through supplier guaranties. The center also
continues to ensure relevant training for students and staff pursuing careers in computing.
Three information systems were developed and are in operation: (a) human resources and
payroll, (b) financial control, and (c) student tracer system. Moreover, the center



11
continues to improve its education TV program (SITED) in support of training,
broadcasting courses, teleconferences and cultural programs, operating with 212 bases for
satellite reception. There are also internal networks and a national intranet for interactive
communication between training centers and state and central offices. These systems
represent an important element in the decentralization of CONALEP.
26.   In 1995, a quality assurance unit (Integral Administrative Modernization - MAI)
was established to promote excellence. In parallel, CONALEP began restructuring its
administration, changing internal procedures based on process analysis. Standards of
quality of services were developed and the staff of the training centers and national and
state offices- were trained, and given new procedural guidelines and videos on educational
quality. Additionally, local training committees in each of the training centers were
strengthened and now include quality and modernization of administration as their main
concerns.  Manuals on administrative functions were developed and a new staff
development system was adopted, incorporating the new work culture and staff profiles.
In five more years, the new attitudes and practices are expected to succeed in
transforming CONALEP image into that of a modem and efficient institution. The
training centers are competing statewide and with other institutions for quality rewards on
the basis of several pre-established criteria, including the quality of their projects,
leadership, study plans, staff development, administration, improvement of processes and
information, interactions with the community, and evaluation of staff performance.
Surveys are being conducted among students on the quality of the staff and equipment.
CONALEP is also working closely with the occupational Council for Normalization and
Certification of Competency Standards (Consejo de Normalizaci6n y Certificaci6n de
Competencia Laboral -CONOCER) in adapting its courses to the national system of
labor competency standards, and has been the first educational institution to issue
competency certificates according to CONOCER norms.
27.   Cost Recovery and Cost Accounting. The improvement in cost recovery were
considerable and CONALEP reached the 20 percent cost recovery target set at appraisal
in 1998. This was possible through user fees charged to industry in payment for courses,
as well as donations from private and public donors of land and buildings. Although
reaching original goals should be commended, this level of cost recovery may be
considered low given the needs to sustain improvements in the quality of training,
instructor upgrading, and the cost of updated equipment. In the entire network, the level
of cost recovery varies considerably among CAST and between CAST and regular
training centers.  The most well equipped and staffed CAST, located near large
concentrations of industry achieve the highest levels of cost recovery. For instance, the
CAST in Ciudad Juarez finances 50 percent of its budget from its own income and
estimates that it could increase that rate to 75 percent by doubling the number of clients
and by using 100 percent of its installed capacity.
28.   Improving the Efficiency of Student Flows and Graduate Placement. These
objectives were considered important at appraisal because of the high dropout rate
observed during the first semester of regular CONALEP courses. Moreover, information
on graduate placement was less than satisfactory. Although 62 percent of CONALEP
students found a job within 3 months of graduation, data were not available on the kinds



12
of jobs they obtained or on their earnings. Also missing was information on how
CONALEP graduates compare with other groups in the labor market, a key element to
assess the effectiveness of the program. The surveys of graduates conducted in 1994 and
in 1997 were informative, but failed to allow for reliable comparative analysis because
their design did not include control groups. Thus, although direct observation and reports
indicate substantial improvements in CONALEP administration and training programs
during the project period, the lack of comprehensive cost accounting and the limitations
of the graduate surveys preclude an empirical analysis of project efficiency and impact.
Procurement of Goods and Services and Disbursements
29.   The Bank missions repeatedly provided detailed guidelines for the procurement of
goods and contracting of consultants. Topics discussed during missions included e.g.
advance payments, bank guaranty for advances, inspection and tests for evaluating
equipment, presentation of samples and prototypes as part of bids, terms and place of
delivery of equipment, fines for late delivery, installation, requirements for Bank review
of contracts, and others. Procurement problems arose with respect to the quality and the
specifications of equipment purchased prior to 1995, particularly computers and software,
that proved to became rapidly obsolete. Additionally, the lack of homogeneity in models
and brands of the equipment made maintenance or upgrading difficult. Most of the
computer equipment acquired during the first half of the project, at a cost of about US$7
million, had to be replaced. The strategy from then on was to undertake procurement on
the basis of standard specifications for equipment and software and to require guarantees
and arrange for maintenance contracts with suppliers.
30.   Disbursements kept pace with the project activities, although delays with respect
to the planned flow of loan funds occurred as a result of 1994 peso devaluation and staff
changes in 1995.
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
31.   The project succeeded in achieving most of its qualitative and quantitative
objectives. There have been favorable changes in training programs, technical assistance
rendered, and in the modernization of CONALEP administration. Enrollment for the
regular and upgraded programs surpassed appraisal targets by 12 percent and 44 percent
respectively. However, completion rates in regular programs were still low at project
closing. In 1998, the number of graduates was 43.8 percent of the initial enrollment, or
31 percent short of the target of 65 percent set at appraisal. Such high dropout rate
represents a high cost to the institution, given that resources for facilities, staff,
equipment and administration are deployed on the basis of student enrolment. Remedial
measures have been recently adopted to ameliorate this problem, including the
introduction of an elective program of high school equivalency for those students who
may wish to continue their studies at higher education institutions career after graduating
as technicians. The absence of this choice in the past had been a source of dissatisfaction
among students. On the other hand, the efficiency of upgraded and on-the-job training
was far greater: 100 percent of the workers receiving training completed the courses.



13
On-the-job training is mostly done in cooperation with private industry or other public
institutions, and workers have a high motivation to complete the courses because their
course accomplishments usually benefit them in their jobs in terms of promotions and
salary increase. Also, those courses are usually designed jointly with the industry and
have an immediate relevance for trainees.
32.   The accounting of training and service costs is one of the project objective that
fell short of the original goal. During project implementation, this important sub-
component was the least developed. Indeed, the lack of reliable and comprehensive cost
information by activity, hampered a more complete analysis of the efficiency and impact
of CONALEP training programs.
33.   The complementary project objective of controlling administrative costs and
keeping them at a level of about 10 percent was partially achieved.  In 1998,
administrative costs were down to 25 percent of total costs, compared with 57 percent in
1997, which is the level frequently recorded for other public technical training programs.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
34.   The effects of the 1994-95 economic crisis affected the pace of implementation
and disbursements of this as well as other projects in Mexico, and led to a 18 month
extension of the closing date. However, the rhythm of activities picked up after 1995 and
at project completion most of the agreed actions were completed.
Factors subject to Government control
35.   There were no major problems that could be attributed to the Government.
Factors subject to implementing agency control
36.   Greater control over the design and execution of the surveys of graduates and
attention to the recommendations made by Bank missions with regard to the need to
introduce control groups, would have resulted in useful information to identify desirable
changes to be made in the program and to measure program impact.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
37.   The increased strength of CONALEP resulting from the administrative and
educational reforms carried out during project implementation, the decentralization of
CONALEP from federal to state level, and the great potential for enhancing cost
recovery in the future, augurs well for sustainability of the program. Another factor in
favor of program sustainability is the increased prestige and visibility gained by
CONALEP in recent years, having moved from the last place in student choice for



14
education in 1993 to third place. To ensure sustainability, it will be important for
CONALEP to place a major emphasis in maximizing efficiency, further strengthening its
linkages with private industry, and addressing the wide regional and local differences in
the quality and performance of the CAST.
BANK PERFORMANCE
38.   The key issues that needed to be addressed by this third technical project were
properly identified and the findings and recommendations of the evaluations of the
previous two projects were taken into account. The Bank carried out a careful project
appraisal, supervised the project regularly, and provided detailed recommendations on
implementation of various activities. It also identified problems of methodology and
contents of the surveys and suggested remedial action on several occasions.  The
technical expertise available during Bank missions was appreciated by the implementing
agency and considered of good quality.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   Project implementation took place during two different Federal Administrations
(the first between 1991-94 and the second in 1995 to 1998). Most of the studies were
completed during the first period. Construction and remodeling of facilities (financed by
the Government and implemented by the Administrative Committee of the Federal
Program of School Construction (Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de
Construcci6n de Escuelas - CAPFCE) as well as the procurement of equipment and
mobile units by CONALEP, were actions carried out at an even pace through the project
implementation period. Academic and administrative reform and development of the
CAST took place mostly during the second period. Overall, project activities were
intensive and well conducted. During both periods, there were sometimes problems with
procurement of goods, because of non-compliance with Bank procedures, reflecting the
learning process of new staff joining the project team. A greater control over the design
and implementation of the surveys of graduates and more focus on cost accounting,
would have permitted an empirical analysis of the efficiency and the impact of
CONALEP training, and would have helped the further restructuring of its administration
and programs.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   Overall the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project resulted in
a stronger and modernized technical training structure, an appropriate culmination of two
decades of IBRD assistance to the CONALEP system.
41.   A significant outcome of this project was the establishment of the CAST network
consisting of eight centers to provide technical assistance and quality control to micro,
small and medium industries. After the first three to four years of operations, there are
still marked differences in the performance and cost recovery capabilities among the
CAST. Nevertheless, as they develop further, they have a great potential for making
important contributions to industry and productivity improvement.



15
42.   The establishment and  successful development of the  Computer and
Communications Center now provides CONALEP with computer and communication
services based on updated technology and proper equipment standardization. The center
also delivers relevant training for staff and students pursing careers in computing and
supports training activities through its educational TV (SITED) system. These systems
have changed the dynamics of CONALEP operations and facilitated the decentralization
process.
43.   Another program spearheaded by this project, consisting of training for marginal
populations, was able to reach a substantial number of people, offering them, through
mobile units, training in a variety of skills. It also accomplished effective coordination
with other agencies serving the same target population (e.g., health, social development).
For further application and expansion of this valuable experience, CONALEP will need
to find an appropriate niche among the country's agencies concerned with social
development of marginal populations in order to maintain the purpose and functions of
the institution strongly anchored in improving the industrial sector.
LESSONS LEARNED
44.   The following were the lessons learned from the review and assessment of the
project:
a) An example of best practice in identifying needed reforms in technical training
programs is the use of panels of experts at national and state levels, including
curricula specialists, representatives of the productive sectors and education
professionals;
b) The expansion of the scope of CONALEP activities transformed the institution from a
strictly pre-work technical training agency to a comprehensive system offering in pre-
and on-the-job training, technical assistance and quality and productivity
enhancement to industry, and this represents a good model; the industrial services
provided by the most advanced CAST are an example that can be used to assist the
development of the entire CAST network in different regions of the country;
c) With regard to maintenance, an important lesson was leamed from the lack of success
of regional maintenance centers and the better results achieved by assigning building
and equipment maintenance responsibilities to the each training center, allowing them
to contract private contractors and suppliers for maintenance of major equipment.
d) Although observations and experiences indicate that there were substantial
improvements in the quality and relevance of CONALEP training, a more conclusive
analysis of costs in relation to outcomes would have provided a firmer basis to guide
the allocation of resources among programs and fine-tune training activities.
e) The flexible staffing policies adopted by CONALEP constitute a key factor in the
modernization of the institution and provide an important lesson concerning the
central role played by personnel policies in the process of institutional change.



16
f) With regard to studies, particularly when they involve costly surveys designed to
assess outcomes, it is important to pay careful attention to methodological aspects,
including sample selection and control groups, so that results are both reliable and
conclusive.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.   The increased administrative and academic strength of CONALEP and its raised
prestige among students and the productive sector should facilitate its decentralization
and future growth and chrnae. There is also a great potential for increased efficiency and
for higher cost recovery through the activities of the CAST and the training centers.
Opportunities for further Bank assistance to CONALEP exist in the on-going Technical
Education and Modernization Project (Loan 3805-ME), of which CONALEP is one of
the executing agencies, and in the proposed Technical Training and Certification Project
scheduled for FY02.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 3358-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:    Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:    Studies included in the Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                    '4
Sector policies                                   '4
Financial objectives                              i
Institutional development          '
Physical objectives                i
Poverty reduction                                                                 '
Gender issues                                                     '
Other social objectives                           '
Environmental objectives                                                          i
Public sector management                          '4
Private sector development                       '4
Other (specify)
Sustainability                     '
Identification                                    '
Preparation assistance                            '
Appraisal                                        '4
Supervision                                       '
Preparation                                       '4
Implementation                                    '
Covenant compliance                              '4
Operation                                        '4
Assessment of Overall Outcome                     '4



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Manpower              Retraining for the unemployed.              1989       Closed       ICR dated November 30, 1993.
Training(Ln.2876-ME)
Labor Market and      Promoting private sector-led growth, easing  1992      Completed    ICR dated December 28, 1998.
Productivity          costs of labor mobility and labor market
Enhancement (Ln.3542-  adjustment.
ME)
Technical Education and  Improving the quality of technical education  1994  Ongoing       Project restructured. Closing date will be
Training Modernization   and training in order to better meet the needs                    extended to June 30, 2003.
(Ln.3805-ME)          of the productive sector.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
1. Preparation                                         9-Mar-90            9-Mar-90
2. Appraisal                                            1-Jun-91         11-Mar-91(*)
3. Negotiations                                         1-May-91          15-May-91
4. Board presentation                                   1-Jun-91          25-Jun-91
5. Signing                                              1-Jul-91          14-Oct-91
6. Effectiveness                                         1-Jul-91         25-Nov-91
7. Project completion                                   1-Jun-97           1-Dec-98
8. Loan closing                                        31 -Dec-97         31-Dec-98
*Pre-appraisal mission retroactively classified as appraisal.
Project Timetable
6-Dec-99
24-Jul-98
1 1-Mar-97
28-Oct-95
1 5-Jun-94
Dates 31-Jan-93                                               -    i+ Ranned
L.W Actual
19-Sep-91
7-May-0
2.3-Dec-088
11-Aug-87
29-Nar-86
1    2      3     4     5     6     7     8
Processing Steps



21
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
II1RD FY              FY92-FY,9  FY9   FN FY                         F9.                       FY99.
Appraisal Estimates   22.3     54.6     86.7      116.5   141.1    152.0
Revised Estimates     22.3     54.6     81.7      106.50   126.1     137.0
Actual                10.9     36.8     63.7      104.7   111.2    116.9          123.7        134.0
Disbursements
Actual as Percent of   48.8    67.4     77.9      98.3     90.3      97.8
Revised Estimate
Date of Last          May 12, 1999
Disbursements
11 US$ 15.0 million were canceled from the totai loan of US$152.0 million on July 1995.
2/ A balance of US$2'988,043.85 million that was cancelled as of May 12, 1999.
Disbursements
160
140 
120         |                                   ...+.... Appraisal
100                                                    Estinrrtes
.2 ~   ~      ~      - 
80                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Actuai
60   .        y       ,    ,     .                  E Disburserents
( n 0                                                     Re  gvised   I
40                         1                          p C l; Estin-ates
0
FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Bank Fiscal Year



22
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
A. STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS
1. Number of Students enrolled
*    Regular Programs                             1,156,000            1,292,269               112 %
*    Modular Programs                              280,000              106,061                 38 %
*    Upgrading Programs                            479,500              691,522                144 %
*    Total                                        1,915,500            2,089,852               109 %
2. Number of Instructors Receiving
Methodology Training                               51,000               140,947                276%
B. OUTPUTS AND EFFICIENCY
I Completion Rates
*    Regular Programs                          52-65% ('91-'97)       44.8% ('98)               69%
*    Modular Programs                          75-80% ('93-97)         9%  ('98)                N/A
*    Upgrading Programs                          90% ('9 1-'97)       100% ('98)                111%
C. COSTS AND FINANACING
* Recurrent Cost of Operation (percent of
total recurrent)
*    Administrative                            Maintain 10.4%          25% ('98)                N/A
l    Regular Programs                             77 to 59%           66% ('98)                 N/A
*    Modular Programs                             5 to 24%             2% ('98)                 N/A
-    Upgrading Programs                            8 to 6%             7% ('98)                 N/A
a     Cost Recovery/Saving Goals              14.7 to 20% ('91-97)
-      (percent of recurrent expenditures)
D. CIVIL WORKS
1. Instructor Training Centers (percent)          100% ('95)          100% ('95)          Completed on time
2. Computer Center (percent)                      100% ('94)          100% ('94)          Completed on time
3. Regional Maintenance Centers (No. And     Planned 8 centers to be   8 Centers                100%
percent completion                             completed in '94      Completed on
time
4. Technological Centers (No. and percent             8                8 CASTs                  100%
completion)                                                          Completed in
1995
5. Existing Training Centers Requiring      Planned 101 remodelings       132                   131%
Supplemental Construction (No.)                                       remodelings
completed on
time
6. Mobile Training Units (No.)                       60                   110                   183%
7. Additional construction in existing centers
Workshops
Laboratories                                       70                  106                   151%
Classrooms                                         50                   168                  336%
Other spaces                                       191                 322                    168%
1,204               1,407                  117%
'The abbreviation N/A means that there were no targets set for the corresponding indicators, but the results are reported for
their high significance as project accomplishments.



23
E. EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
PROCUREMENT
1. 250 Re-equipped/Average percent                    100%                    100%                    100%
completed
2. No. Of Centers Fully Re-equipped                    250                     146                     58%
F. SELF-EMPLOYMENT PROGS.
1. No. of Training Centers (196)                       196                     260                    132%
2. No. Of Training Courses per year                    250                     581                    232%
3. No. Of Instructors Receiving Training              1250                    1,201                    96%
4. No. Of Students enrolled                          20,000                  101,236                  506%
5. No. Of Units of Self-employment
established                                           2,000                   1,363                    68%
G. TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICES
1. No. Of Technicians Upgraded2                       3,000                  65,398
2. No. Of Instructors Upgraded                        4,000                    N/A
3. No. Of Micro and Medium Industries       12 to 250 per year from '91
Assisted                                           to '97= 882                1,850                   210%
4. Technological Services Rendered
Not planned                3,565                   N/A
2Selected 3rd. Year technicians of regular programs and employed technicians.



24
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
1. Labor Market Demand  Obtain information to enable a  Completed in   The study was used by the
for Technicians         more balanced planning and      1995           Division of Curricular
implementation of training                    Development as an input for the
programs for mid-level                         second phase of the 1995 course
technicians, auxiliaries, skilled and          offerings; it was also used to
semi-skilled workers, by branch of             define the 1997 national training
economic activity; magnitude of                courses, on the basis of the
the growth of these levels, and                demand for technicians, by
information by regions and states             career and state
2. CONALEP program      Expand training services specially   Completed in   Offering of CONALEP's courses
for the maquiladora     tailored for the maqu-iladora   1994           for this group was redefined
export industries       industrial sector, for basic training,
on-the-job training and updating of
skilled workers and technicians
3. CONALEP program      Adjust the supply of CONALEP    Completed in   The Hotel and Gastronomy
for the Tourism Sector    training for the Tourism Sector by  1994     Careers were separated and new
training facility and/or region                curricula were developed for
each, based on the results of the
study
4. Program in Support of  Increase and strengthen       Completed in   The impact of this study may be
Marginal Populations and  CONALEP's attention to marginal  1994        observed in the methodology
Zones                   zones, to improve production                   designed and validated as a basis
through programs of training and              for the new training program for
updating the manpower                          marginal zones, adopted in the
260 centers.
5. Improving Student    Determine the causes of lower   Completed in  It resulted in promotion and
Recruitment in Regular   student recruitment in relation to   1993     dissemination campaigns,
Technical Programs      installed capacity in some centers,            billboards, TV and radio ads,
and propose recommendations to                 visits to secondary schools and
improve this situation. Also, to               preparation of information
develop strategies to strengthen the           modules
promotion and dissemination
program regarding courses offered,
emphasizing the characteristics
and advantages of the technical
education offered by CONALEP
3All studies described in this table are in Spanish (translated titles).



25
Curricula redesign for math,
Spanish, history and
computers
6. Improving Student    Diagnose the causes and provide    Completed in   *  Compensatory courses
Retention              recommendations to significantly   1994
improve: (a) student retention rates          *  General knowledge exams
per semester; (b) the system's
terminal efficiency; and (c) help             *  Strengthening of the
establish an integral program to                 fellowship program
support students to finish their
studies                                       *  Integralfellowships
7. Improving Graduate    Develop a system to evaluate, on a  Completed in   *  Graduates traced
Tracer System           permanent basis, the incorporation  1993
and performance of the                        *  Directory updated
CONALEP graduates in the                      *  Improvements introduced
productive sector and measure the                according to the findings of
external effectiveness of the                    the study
College
8. Modular System of    Facilitate the design and      Completed in   .  New academic model
Technical Training      development of a modular system   1994
to facilitate the preparation and             *  Flexible modules
training of specialized, employed
labor force
9. Program of           Systematic analysis of the      Completed in   *  Establishment of 8 CASTs
Technological Assistance  technological experiences and the   1993
and Development         demand for CONALEP's services,                *  Improvement of equipment
as well as external experiences in               Updating and promotion of
order to define the operational                  services
parameters of the centers that
would provide technical assistance            *  Linking training supply with
services in response to the                      the needs of the productive
requirements of the national and                  sector
regional productive sector
10. Promotion of Micro-  Promote the establishment of  Completed in   Program of self-employment for
Industry Development    micro-enterprises among         1993          students
graduates, taking into account the
profile of CONALEP's students, as
well as the productive activity of
the region



26
11. A. CONALEP's       Improve the overall administration  Completed in   *  Program of Integral
Administrative          of the system, in programming,   1993              Modernization (MAI)
Development             budgeting, registration of unit
costs, and accounting control                  *  Strategic Planning
*  Introduction of the concept
of quality in administration
*  Redesign of procedures
*  Labor culture of excellence
*  Permanent staff training
*  New organizational structure
authorized in 1997 by SHCP
and SECODAM
II. B. Development of    Develop and establish an efficient  Completed in  In 1995 the plan for
the infrastructure to   and broad general infrastructure    1992       development of the information
improve CONALEP's    for communications and                            system 1995-2000 was launched,
communication and       computerization, in order to                   including office computerization
information systems     respond appropriately to the needs             on the basis of defined standards
of the central offices and the                 for equipment and software,
centers                                        responsive to the regular flow of
information. There is one
computer per two administrative
staff. A training program in
computer use is part of this plan
12. Determination of the  Identification of positions in the    Completed in   Taking into account the
positions that could be    labor market, for those students in  1994   recommendations of this study,
occupied by students    CONALEP's modular careers                      it was decided not to establish
completing a technical                                                 new centers or new careers
career in the modular                                                  before a qualitative and
system                                                                 quantitative analysis of the needs
of the productive sector in the
respective regions
13. Program of quality    Contribute to the program of  Completed in   Consolidations of careers
assurance for health    quality assurance in the health  1994
careers                 sector
14. Educational         Strengthening the educational   Completed in  It was the basis for the creation
Orientation System      quality of technical professionals   1994      of the Educational Orientation
in various areas of activity through           System
the establishment of a national
Educational Orientation System,
consisting of three programs: I.
School promotion and orientation;
II. Educational orientation; and
III. Professional orientation



27
15. Middle Technical   Provide an analytical and      Completed in   *  Consolidation of educational
Employment and         empirical framework of education   1994          supply
Education              and employment requirements in
the fields pertaining to CONALEP             *  Definition of CONALEP's
niche
16. Metrology Assistance  Identify current status of  Completed in  The study identified the services
to make a full diagnosis   metrological resources of labs in   1998  that could be accredited in the
of the CASTs           the CASTs located in Cuautitlan,             short term, equipment needs,
Ciudad Juarez, Zapopan,                      training required for the staff,
Matamoros, Guadalupe, Tijuana                documentation needed as part of
and Leon                                     the calibration procedures,
quality manual, remodeling of
facilities to provide an
environment required by
standards, and steps needed to
obtain accreditation of the
calibration services
17. Women Participation  Provide strategic conditions to  Completed in  The study identified several
in Technical Careers   enable CONALEP to develop      1998          reasons why women do not
short term and medium term                   choose more often careers in
communication campaigns to                  industry, and it proposes several
motivate women's participation in            strategic information criteria to
technical careers in industry                strengthen women's participation
in "hard" careers. The suggested
criteria are still being reviewed
and no decision has been taken
regarding outreach
18. Curricula Design for  Continue to increase training  Completed in  The study will be validated in
Social Training Courses   quality, particularly of the PAZM    1998  1999 before its general
courses, through redesign of                 application
teaching to strengthen aptitudes
and manual skills responsive to
the basic needs for training, of the
target population in marginal
zones



28
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Quality        39.7      64.7      104.4      62       139.7     33.3     173.0    19.3
Expansion        24.2     39.6       63.8      62        11.0      0.0      11.0      0.0
Efficiency       13.8     22.5      36.3        62      25.5       0.0      25.5      2.0
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Federal
Government         52.5          0.0         52.5         75.1         0.5         75.5
IBRD               25.2         126.8        152.0        101.2       32.8        134.0



29
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal                46.9                 94.4
Appraisal                               13.9                 24.6
Negotiations through Board Approval      7.7                 13.2
Supervision                            162.2                404.5
Completion                               8.0                 21.4



30
TABLE 9. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Through Appraisal
Identification        Nov / 89          2              1                                      N/A                  N/A               N/A
Identification        Mar /90           2              1               B,C                     N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation           Nov / 90          2              1                B                                                            N/A
Preparation            Jan /91          3             2              B(2), C                                                         N/A
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal              Mar /91          7             2            A,B(3), C,D                                                       N/A
Post Appraisal         Jun /91          1              1                A                                                            N/A
Supervision
Supervision I         Aug /91           2             2                A,B                      I                    I               N/A
Supervision 2         Nov /91           2              1               A,B                      I                    I               N/A
Supervision 3          Feb /92          2             2                A,B                      I                    I               N/A
Supervision 4          Jun /92          2             2                B,C                      I                    I               N/A
Supervision 5          Oct /92          2             2                A,B                      1                    I               N/A
Supervision 6         Mar / 93          5             2            A(2),B,C,D                   1                    I               N/A
Supervision 7          Jun / 93         2             .5               A,B                      2                    1              a, b, c
Supervision 8          Oct / 93         5             2            A(2),B,C,D                   I                    I               N/A
Supervision 9         Mar /94           4                            A,B,C,D                    2                    1                B
Supervision 10        Mar / 94          2                              A,B                      S                   HS               b, d
Supervision 11         Oct /94          3             2               A,B,D                     S                   HS               b, d
Supervision 12        May /95           2                             A(2)                      S                    S               b, d
Supervision 13         Jul /95          2              1              A(2)                      S                    S               b, d
Supervision 14         Oct / 95         2             .5               A, g                     S                    S               N/A
Supervision 15         Dec /95          2             .5           A(2),B,D,F                   S                    S               b, d
Supervision 16         Jan /97          7              1               G,H                      S                    S               N/A
Supervision 17         Oct /97          2              1               A,B                      S                    S               N/A
Completion                Apr /99          2              1                A,I                     S                    S                N/A
a/ A=Labor Economist; B=Tech. Training Spec.; C=Implement Spec.; D=Division Chief; E=Procurement Spec.; F=MIS Spec.; g=lnformation Spec.; H=Gender Spec.;
I=Sociologist.
b/ 1= Problem Free; 2=Moderate; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory.
c/ a=Management; b=Procurement; c=Legal; d=Counterpart Funds.



31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
202 (b)        02       Open and maintain a special account.  C                                 No Comments.
3.01 (a)       03        Contractual arrangements between    C        14-Jan-92    25-Nov-91   No Comments.
Borrower, Guarantor and CONALEP.
3.03          09       Government and Bank undertake        C        March of                  Midterm Review Report
annual and Mid-term reviews project.         every year                received in April 1997.
March, 1994
4.01 (a)       01        Maintain adequate financial records  C       25-Nov-91                 No Comments.
(Continuously).
4.01 (b)       01        Submit audit reports of the financial  C     30-Jun-92                 All audit reports were
(I)                   records and of the Special Account.                                     submitted on or prior to the
due date and were
unqualified.
4.01 (b)       01        Submit audited records of the        C       06-Jun-92                 There were several instances
(II)                   projects.                                                              of delays in submission of
Audit Reports.
4.01 (b)       01        Submit certified monthly statements  C                                 Accounts were submitted by
(III)                  of the Special Account.                                                 NAFIN every time the Special
Account was replenished from
the Loan Account.
Schedule        05       Completed the project.               C       31 -Dec-96    31-Dec-97   No Comments.
2                                                                                31-Dec-98
2.02          03       Provide the funds required for the   C        14-Jan-92    25-Nov-91   No Comments.
project to CONALEP.
3.02          03       Contractual Arrangements.            C        14-Jan-92    25-Nov-91   No Comments.
3.03          09       Government and Bank undertake        C        March of                  No Comments.
annual and mid-term reviews of               every year
project.                                    March, 1994
2.06          10       CONALEP shall carry out the eleven   C                                  Complied with.
(a)-(b)                 studies.
2.06          10       Study: Labor Market for skilled      C          1995                    Complied with.
(I)                   workers and middle-level technicians.
2.06          10       Study: Training workers for the in-  C                                  Complied with.
(II)                   bond assembly industry sector                31-Mar-93
(Maquiladora).
2.06          10       Study: Training workers for the      C       31-Mar-93                  Complied with.
(III)                  tourism sector.



32
2.06          10       Study: Improving recruitn for3-M                                        Improvement registered.
(V)                    career programs currently offered by
CONALEP.
2.06          10       Study: Determine how to reduce the   C       31-Mar-93                  A reduction of 15 percent is
(VI)                   level of CONALEP dropouts.                                              observed.
2.06          10       Study: Improving follow up           C                                  No comments.
(VII)                  information on graduates.                     31-Mar-93
2.06          10       Study: Determine levels of           C                                  Technology has been updated
(VIII)                 technology in workplace, and develop                                    in school-based programs as
plan for adapting training programs                                    well as in custom-made
accordingly.                                                           courses at CASTs.
2.06          10       Study: Determine the types of        C                                  Complied with, especially
(IX)                   technical assistance required by                                       through CASTs.
micro, small and medium scale
enterprise.
2.06          10       Study: Determine how to refine and   C                                  Complied with, especially
(X)                    upgrade the micro-enterprise                                           through CASTs.
development program currently
offered by CONALEP.
2.06          10       Study: Determine how to improve      C       31-Mar-93                  Administrative costs were
(XI)                   CONALEP's administration of its                                         reduced at central level by 8.6
physical, financial and human                                          percent.
resources.
2.07          10       CONALEP shall prepare and begin      C                                  Administrative expenses were
carrying out an action plan to reduce                                  reduced.
per student administration expenses at
50 highest cost training centers.
2.08          02       Cost recovery to reach 20 percent of  C                                 Cost recovery reached 20
recurrent costs by end of calendar                                     percent in 1996, 1997 and
year 1996.                                                             1998. Satisfactory
compliance with one year
delay (in 1996 19 percent was
achieved).
2.10          10       CONALEP shall operate mobile         C                                  The number of mobile units
training units according to agreed                                     operating are 110 compared to
operational maOnual.                                                   goal of 60.
2.09          10       CONALEP shall operate TDAC's         C                                  All eight CASTs are operating
(CAST's) according to agreed                                           satisfactori
operational manual.                                                    Iy.



33
2.11          10       CONALEP shall operate maintenance    C                                  Complied with, as a result,
units according to agreed operational                                  maintenance of buildings and
manual.                                                                equipment improved
Significantly during
the 1995-1999 period.
2.12          10       CONALEP shall operate equipment      C                                  Complied with.
production unit in accordance with
agreed operational manual.
2.15          09       CONALEP, together with the           C                                  Annual reviews and action
Borrower and the Guarantor, shall                                      plans were carried out as
participate in annual review of the                                    planned.
Project Implementation to be
conducted each June, beginning in
1992 and, on basis of review, produce
a plan of action for modifications to
be implemented in following 12.
4.02 (a)       01        CONALEP shall have the records and   C                                 Complied with.
(1)                    accounts audited by independent and
qualified auditors for each financial
year.
4.02 (a)                 CONALEP shall furnish the Bank      C                                  Audit reports have been
(II)         01        within six months of the end of each                                   presented on time and have
fiscal year: a certified copy of its                                   been unqualified.
financial statements so audited; and
the audit report of the auditors.
4.02 (a)       01        CONALEP shall furnish to the Bank    C                                 CONALEP has provided all
(III)                  such other information, concerning                                      information requested by the
(I) and (II) above, as the Bank may                                    Bank.
request.
Covenant Types:                                                           Present Status:
1 = Accounts and Audits                                           C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial Performance / Revenue generation                    CD = Complied with after delay
from beneficiaries                                            CP = Complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                         NC = Not Complied with
4 = Counterpart finding
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9



34
Appendix A
Mission's Aide Memoire
MEXICO
TERCER PROYECTO DE CAPACITACION TtCNICA (CONALEP III)
Prestamo 3358-ME
AYUDA MEMORIA
Misi6n de Cierre del Proyecto
Abril 26-30 de 1999
Introduccion
La misi6n de cierre del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica se realiz6 del 26 al 30 de abril de
1999 y estuvo compuesta por Nydia Maraviglia (Jefe de la misi6n, Consultora), Anna Sant'Anna
(soci6loga) y Catalina Toledo (Contadora, consultora) . El objetivo de la misi6n consisti6 en realizar,
juntamente con representantes de Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), Colegio Nacional de Educacion
Profesional Tecnica (CONALEP) y Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP), una revisi6n de la
implementaci6n del Proyecto hasta su cierre el 31 de diciembre de 1998, como base para la preparaci6n
del informe de terminaci6n del Proyecto (Implementation Completion Report -ICR), a ser presentado a la
Junta Directiva del Banco. La misi6n desea agradecer a los funcionarios del CONALEP, NAFIN y de la
SHCP las atenciones recibidas y sus importantes contribuciones al exito de esta misi6n.
Acompaniados por funcionarios de NAFIN y CONALEP, la misi6n visit6 Ciudad Juarez, Estado
de Chihuahua, con el fin de observar sobre el terreno las actividades y realizaciones del CONALEP en lo
referente a ensefianza tecnica Ilevada a cabo en los planteles, la capacitaci6n en el trabajo, la operaci6n de
unidades m6viles, la vinculaci6n con empresas privadas y el funcionamiento del CAST. La misi6n
quisiera agradecer la amable recepci6n brindada por las autoridades estatales del CONALEP en Ciudad
Juarez y la excelente programaci6n de esta visita de campo. La visita ha sido muy provechosa, una vez
que permiti6 a la misi6n tener una visi6n clara del funcionamiento de los principales programas del
CONALEP. En especial vale notar la operaci6n del CAST, que se destaca por su caracter innovador en
cuanto a la vinculaci6n con el sector productivo y sentido empresarial de recuperaci6n de costos y
programaci6n estrategica para llegar a la sostentabilidad tecnica y financiera del programa. N6tese
tambien el papel del CAST en el desarrollo de proveedores, aspecto merecedor de mayor difusi6n a nivel
nacional.
I.       Revisi6n de los Componentes del Proyecto
La misi6n recibi6 el borrador del informe de cierre del Proyecto preparado por CONALEP, asi
como numerosos otros documentos y tuvo la oportunidad de intercambiar opiniones durante
presentaciones muy efectivas organizadas por el CONALEP sobre la implementaci6n de los distintos
componentes durante los afios 1991-1998. Durante este periodo se distinguen dos etapas, la primera de
1991 a 1994 y la segunda, desarrollada durante la presente Administraci6n, de 1995-1998. Las
presentaciones permitieron tambien detectar los efectos sobre el financiamiento y las actividades del
proyecto de los cambios en el entomo macro econ6mico Mexicano observados durante la ejecuci6n del



35
Proyecto. Ademas, las presentaciones consideraron los efectos que tendra la descentralizaci6n del
CONALEP sobre los distintos programas, asi como las medidas que se estan tomando para asegurar la
continuidad de los logros alcanzados a la fecha traves del Proyecto, una vez que la responsabilidatl de
implementaci6n pase completamente a los estados (con la retenci6n de funciones normativas a nivel
central). Se revis6 tambien el desempefio de todos los componentes del Proyecto, los cuales son: (a)
Mej oras en la calidad; (b) Expansi6n de las actividades de capacitaci6n; y (c) Mejoras en la eficiencia y
eficacia de CONALEP. El Banco efectuarA un analisis de la totalidad del Proyecto utilizando el resultado
de las observaciones de campo, asi como la sustancial informaci6n recibida durante la misi6n e incluira
sus conclusiones y recomendaciones en el ICR.
II.      Costos y Financiamiento
El Prestamo original fue de US$152 millones y se redujo a US$137 millones en 1995 como
resultado de un pedido de cancelaci6n del Gobierno en respuesta a la crisis econ6mica. El costo total
original del Proyecto habia sido estimado en US$204.5 millones. Se preve una cancelaci6n del saldo final
del Prestamo al cierre de cuentas, programado para el 30 de abril de 1999. Sin embargo, el monto exacto
de dicha cancelaci6n no esta todavia disponible, en virtud de que no ha sido procesada por el Banco la
uiltima solicitud de desembolso. Asimismo, la misi6n solicit6 y obtuvo informaci6n adicional de parte de
CONALEP sobre el costo de construcci6n de planteles, que constituy6 el aporte del Gobierno al proyecto.
La informaci6n sobre el costo total del Proyecto, fue brindada en Pesos mexicanos para el periodo 1990-
1998. En base a esta informaci6n, NAFIN calculara el costo total del Proyecto en su equivalente en
D61ares al momento de su finalizaci6n, incluyendo el aporte del Gobierno.
III.     Asuntos Pendientes
Durante la misi6n, se identific6 la inforrnaci6n adicional que necesitara el Banco para preparar el
ICR, tal como se describe a continuaci6n. Al respecto, se acord6 que dicha informaci6n sera enviada al
Banco a mas tardar el 12 de mayo de 1999:
a) NAFIN enviarA al Banco la versi6n final del estado de cumplimiento con los compromisos
establecidos en el Convenio de este Prestamo;
b) NAFIN consolidara la informaci6n sobre costos realizados (reales) utilizando el costo de la
construcci6n enviado por CONALEP, y enviarA al Banco los cuadros especificados en el informe
de cierre como tablas 7.B y 7.C;
c) CONALEP enviara el resultado de la compilaci6n que esta actualmente finalizando, sobre los
gastos incurridos en el Proyecto, por componente. Vale notar que el Banco necesita esta
informaci6n para el analisis de la implementaci6n del Proyecto a ser incluida en el ICR y para el
informe final de supervisi6n del Proyecto;
d) CONALEP/NAFIN enviaran al Banco la versi6n final del resumen ejecutivo del "Informe Final
del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica", en diskette, para que pueda ser incorporado en el
ICR.
IV.      Procesamiento del ICR
Antes del 31 de Mayo, el Banco entregarA al Gobierno un borrador del ICR para recibir sus
comentarios. La finalizaci6n de este informe por parte del Banco debera hacerse antes del 30 de junio de
1999.



36
Appendix B
Government's Loan Closing Report (in Spanish)
TERCER PROYECTO DE CAPACITACION TECNICA
CONALEP III - BIRF
PRESTAMO 3358-ME
INFORME DE TERMINACION DE PROYECTO
Resumen de la visi6n del Gobierno de Mexico
Junio, 1999
INTRODUCCION
En el marco de una economia con una fuerte tendencia a la globalizaci6n, los paises como el nuestro se
enfrentan ante el reto de reestructurar muchas de sus politicas tradicionales que venian manejando hasta la
conclusi6n de los afios 80s. Dichas politicas se tendrian que orientar hacia iniciativas de estabilizaci6n y
transformaci6n estructural de la economia mexicana, derivado de esto se iniciaron diversas estrategias que
permitieran insertar a nuestro pais en ese proceso de globalizaci6n. Las principales lineas que adopta el
Gobiemo es el fortalecimiento de su infraestructura, para motivar la inversi6n en sectores claves del pais
que promovieran un desarrollo industrial importante a la par con politicas de liberaci6n comercial. Ante
este requerimiento el Gobiemo de Mexico tambien consider6 como parte esencial de este proceso elevar
el nivel educativo de la poblaci6n econ6micamente activa a traves de la capacitaci6n, e incluir un modelo
educativo acorde con los requerimientos de esta nueva fase para las nuevas generaciones que se incluiria
en el mercado de trabajo, en este sentido el papel de la educaci6n tecnica jugaria un importante papel.
El Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica (CONALEP III), surge como una opci6n para enfrentar esta
problematica, ya que a travs -de dos proyectos financiados anteriormente por el Banco: el primero
tendiente al fortalecimiento de la infraestructura del Colegio, asi como su equipamiento; y el segundo
promover la demanda para la capacitaci6n tecnica mediante el desarrollo de metodos pedag6gicos de
ensefianza y capacitaci6n a sus profesores con el objetivo de elevar la calidad del servicio del Colegio, lo
colocan como una instituci6n viable para solventar a corto plazo los requerimientos del mercado laboral,
principalmente de tecnicos especializados.
Es asi que en 1990, como una iniciativa conjunta del Gobiemo Mexicano y el interes del Banco en
participar en una nueva operacion se inicia el proceso de preparaci6n del nuevo proyecto para el
CONALEP, en el que se establece que el costo total del proyecto seria de 204.5 mdd, de los cuales el
Gobiemo aportaria 52.5 mdd, y mediante la firma de los Documentos Legales del Prestamo 3358-ME, el
14 de octubre de 1991, el Banco Mundial financiaria parcialmente el proyecto con un monto de 152.0
mdd. La operaci6n es declarada efectiva el 25 de noviembre de 1991, fecha en que inicia oficialmente la
ejecuci6n del Tercer Proyecto.
EJECUCION DEL CONALEP III
Retomando la experiencia del ejercicio de dos proyectos anteriores, el CONALEP ha logrado con este
Tercer Proyecto, consolidar su imagen institucional que se ve reflejada en la calidad del servicio



37
educativo que actualmente proporciona a traves de sus diversos programas, lo que se puede evaluar por
medio de los componentes e indicadores de monitoreo que han quedado plasmados en el Informe de
Termninaci6n del Proyecto.
En terminos generales, el CONALEP se destac6 por el cumplimiento y arnpliaci6n de las metas y
objetivos originalmente establecidos para el proyecto, los cuales se concentraron en los tres componentes
que se detallan a continuaci6n, que al ser evaluados durante la Misi6n de Cierre del Proyecto, el Banco
encontr6 satisfactorias las acciones emprendidas para cada uno de ellos:
I.    Mejoras en la calidad educativa.
II.   Expansi6n en las actividades de capacitaci6n del CONALEP.
III.   Fortalecimiento Institucional: Incremento de la eficiencia y competencia del CONALEP.
Es importante mencionar que durante la ejecucion de este proyecto, incidieron varios elementos que no
permitieron que concluyera en el tiempo previamente establecido, como han sido principalmente: a) los
niveles presupuestarios asignados anualmente, los cuales se dieron por debajo de lo que se sefial6 en el
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); b) la crisis financiera que se origino en 1995 y que Ilevo a restricciones
presupuestarias severas, aunado a un desliz del peso frente al d6lar, tambien contribuy6 en el bajo ritmo
anual de desembolsos. Derivado de esta crisis el Gobierno de Mexico decidi6 cancelar en ese mismo afio
15.0 mdd de la linea total del credito, quedando un monto de 137.0 mdd. Ante esta problematica el
CONALEP puntualiz6 sus acciones de acuerdo a los recursos autorizados cada afio, esforzandose por
cumplir con los requerimientos establecidos en el los Documentos Legales, asi como asumir los
compromisos y retomar las sugerencias del Banco Mundial en cada Misi6n de Supervisi6n al Proyecto.
Cabe sefialar, que pese a los factores extemos que afectaron la ejecuci6n del proyecto y que impidieron su
conclusi6n, prevista para el 31 de diciembre de 1997, fue necesario ampliar la fecha del cierre del
proyecto por un afio mas, con lo que se permitiria al CONALEP finalizar las acciones en funci6n de
cumplimiento y ampliaci6n de metas. Asi mismo, para el aprovechamiento de los recursos se efectuaron
enmiendas a los Documentos Legales con la finalidad de reasignar recursos entre las diferentes categorias
de gasto de acuerdo a las iniciativas de acci6n en donde el CONALEP requeria de fortalecimiento,
ademas se incorporaron gastos efectuados por el Colegio que se consideraron elegibles de financiamiento
ya que venian incidiendo directamente en el proyecto.
Otro aspecto a resaitar durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto y que es observado en el Informe de Terminaci6n
del mismo, es lo referente a los procedimientos de adquisici6n de bienes, especificamente a equipo de
computo y software. Muchos son los factores que incidieron para que estos bienes no cumplieran
conforme a lo que observa el Banco, principalmente en la primera fase del proyecto:
*  La primera de ellas es que el mercado que ofrece equipo de computo y software
experimenta un constante avance tecnoilgico, lo que repercute directamente en este
tipo de bienes, los cuales se vuelven obsoletos rapidamente.
* Otro aspecto es el presupuesto asignado a la comnpra de este tipo de bienes por parte del
Gobiemo, que muchas veces limita la compra del equipo en cuanto a ntumero y en
relaci6n al producto mas avanzado que se ofrece en el mercado.



38
* Por ser las primeras compras que el CONALEP llev6 a cabo, no se tenia experiencia en
la definici6n de las especificaciones tecnicas de los equipos, lo que contribuy6 a la
rapida obsolescencia de los mismos.
*  Se considera tambien que la compra de este equipo dependi6 del perfil del usuario que
haya definido el CONALEP en su momento.
*  La politica de licitaciones implica tiempos prolongados que van desde la definici6n de
los documentos de licitaci6n y sus especificaciones tecnicas hasta el momento de la
entrega del equipo por parte del proveedor al organismos ejecutor, que en promedio se
lleva hasta 8 meses, periodo en el que existen diferencias importantes entre el modelo
que se adquiere y el nuevo prototipo que se encuentra en el mercado.
Sin embargo, todos los procedimientos de licitaci6n, tanto de este tipo de bienes como todos aquellos que
adquiri6 el CONALEP, desde el inicio del proyecto hasta su termino, se realizaron en conformidad con
las normas del Banco, bajo los principios de economia y eficiencia.
PERPECTIVAS DEL COLEGIO
Con la experiencia adquirida mediante este proyecto, el Colegio entra en una fase de sustentabilidad
institucional y financiera, la cual requiere del disefio de una estrategia que le permita mejorar, fortalecer y
extender sus servicios educativos para enfrentar el nuevo milenio. Para lo cual, el ICR puede ser
considerado un documento base para el disefio de dicha estrategia tomando en cuenta las ultimas
recomendaciones del Banco Mundial, donde resalta los logros mas sobresalientes alcanzados por el
Colegio:
/ Fortalecimiento y modernizaci6n de la estructura de capacitaci6n tecnica.
-( Creaci6n de los Centros de Asistencia y Servicios Tecnol6gicos (CAST), como un modelo de gran
potencial que puede contribuir al fomento y conducci6n de la productividad del sector industrial.
V Instalaci6n y modernizaci6n del Centro de Informatica y Comunicaciones.
V Establecimiento del Sistema Interactivo de Televisi6n Educativa a Distancia (SITED).
/ Adaptaci6n de la Red Nacional de Comunicaciones, entre planteles, representaciones y oficinas
nacionales.
V Consolidaci6n del Programa de Atencion a Zonas Marginadas, como medio para promover la
capacitaci6n y la asesoria tecnol6gica a zonas marginadas urbanas y rurales.



39
Informe Final del Tercer Proyecto de
Capacitacion Tecnica
(Prestamo 3358-ME)
Entidad Ejecutora: Colegio Nacional de
Educacion Profesional Tecnica
Entidad Financiera: Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
Periodo 1991 - 1998
Version Ejecutiva
mayo de 1999
^_  Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica



40
INTRODUCCION
La presente versi6n ejecutiva del informe de terminaci6n del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitacion Tecnica. Prestamo
3358-ME (CONALEP ll), es el testimonio del Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica de las acciones
realizadas durante el periodo de vida del Proyecto; se ocupa fundamentalmente de describir los aspectos y logros
cualitativos del mismo.
El Colegio desea expresar su agradecimiento a las Secretarias de Educaci6n Publica, de Hacienda y Credito Publico,
de la Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo, a Nacional Financiera y al propio Banco, particularmente al
Departamento para Mexico, America Latina y el Caribe por la oportunidad que le brindaron de ser uno de los
ejecutores de credito externo y aprender los procesos involucrados en el.
La integraci6n del informe se efectu6 analizando la informacion proporcionada por las unidades administrativas de la
instituci6n, mediante investigaci6n documental de otras fuentes impresas, a traves de la consulta de las Ayudas
Memorias de las Misiones de Supervision y del Informe de Medio Termino.
La ejecuci6n del proyecto dur6 ocho ahos, Uempo durante el cual el contexto econ6mico, social y gubernamental de
nuestro pais se modific6, a dichos cambios se adapt6 el Colegio. Podriamos afirmar que este informe representa la
evoluci6n y transformaci6n que ha tenido el CONALEP en dos etapas, aquella que va de 1991 a 1994 y otra que se
empieza a gestar en 1995 y que continua hasta 1998. La primera etapa se caracteriz6 por un hacer constante y la
generaci6n de un buen niumero de iniciativas que le confirieron al modelo educativo de la instituci6n presencia en la
sociedad mexicana; Ia segunda etapa aprovech6 las experiencias acumuladas por la instituci6n, idenbficando sus
fortalezas y sus debilidades, su peculiaridad estriba en impulsar un cambio planeado con base en la redefinici6n de
sus acciones de acuerdo con las demandas del contexto. En el transcurso del presente informe se podran identificar
ambas etapas.
El costo total del proyecto se estim6 en 204.5 millones de d6lares, de los cuales el Banco Mundial aportaria
aproximadamente el 75% y el Gobiemo Federal el restante 25%.
Las principales acciones y logros alcanzados por cada uno de los subcomponente que integran los componentes del
Proyecto se describen a continuaci6n:
1) MEJORAS EN LA CALIDAD.
A.1) DESARROLLO DE PLANES Y PROGRAMAS DE ESTUDIO (OFERTA EDUCATIVA).
Para contribuir a lograr el objetivo del componente de 'Mejoras en la calidad", el CONALEP, durante el periodo de
ejecuci6n del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitacion Tecnica, emprendi6 dos grandes acciones: la primera de ellas fue la
reforma academica del Colegio realizada a partir de 1989 y concluida en 1994, reforma que se caracteriz6 por la
expansi6n y diversificaci6n de la oferta educativa, llegando a disenar 146 carreras. La segunda acci6n fue el
redimensionamiento de la oferta educafiva y el fortalecimiento curricular que inici6 el CONALEP en 1995 a efecto de
consolidar una oferta educafiva pertinente, flexible y de calidad.
En terminos de la oferta educativa, el Colegio para 1995 enfrentaba basicamente tres problemas: uno de caracter
operativo, consistente en un gran nOmero de carreras, lo que generaba una importante fragmentaci6n de recursos;
otro que consistia en la competencia con instituciones de educaci6n profesional tecnica en carreras con suficiente
cobertura por parte del sector publico y la iniciativa privada, lo que daba como resultado una marcada duplicidad en la
atenci6n de la misma demanda, y el tercero, a la falta de pertinencia de los contenidos de los planes y programas de
estudio con las necesidades de los estudiantes y los sectores producfivos.
En el primer caso se racionaliz6 la oferta fusionando planes de estudio cuyas especialidades y contenidos eran
practicamente iguales, asimismo se eliminaron las carreras con muy baja matricula a nivel nacional y se suprimieron
las carreras que presentaban contenidos y equipamiento obsoletos. De esta forma se redujo el nOmero de carreras a
^ _   Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica



41
63 y se actualizo la oferta en nueve areas ocupacionales
Cabe destacar el hecho de que la reducci6n de areas ocupacionales obedecio a la intenci6n de fortalecer la vocaci6n
del Colegio, es decir, que la mayor parte de las carreras impartidas correspondieran al area industrial. Esa fue la
decisi6n por la cual se eliminaron las areas ocupacionales y carreras relacionadas con el ambito Agropecuario y
Pesca, ademas existen otras instituciones educativas del nivel medio superior que cuentan con mayores recursos,
experiencia e infraestructura para impartir ese tipo de especialidades t6cnicas.
Con relacion a las areas de formaci6n ocupacional cabe destacar los siguientes aspectos: las areas fueron
reconceptualizadas considerando que las carreras estuvieran comprendidas en la estructura ocupacional del pais y
que los niveles de formaci6n correspondieran a los existentes en el mercado de trabajo. Para tal efecto se utiliz6 como
insumo basico el modelo propuesto por la Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsi6n Social en el Catalogo Nacional de
Ocupaciones. Asimismo, tambien se consult6 la Clasificaci6n Internacional Uniforme de Ocupaciones, elaborado por la
Organizaci6n Internacional del Trabajo.
Durante 1996 como resultado de los foros estatales de consulta, los paneles de expertos y las jornadas de evaluaci6n
curricular, en las que participaron docentes del Colegio, especialistas en contenidos, representantes de los sectores
productivos y profesionales del area de ciencias de la educaci6n, se defini6 una nueva oferta educativa de 29
carreras, agrupadas en dos grandes sectores de la actividad econ6mica: el industrial (70%) y el de servicios (30%),
misma que comenz6 a operar en el ciclo escolar 1997-1998.
Las decisiones tomadas y sus consecuentes acciones permitieron: 1) eliminar las duplicidades con otras con otras
instituciones; 2) concentrar los recursos disponibles para mejorar el equipamiento de talleres y laboratorios de las
carreras realmente demandadas; 3) formular un plan de actualizaci6n factible para el personal docente, en un numero
de especialidades manejables para el Colegio; y, 4) revisar la totalidad de los planes de estudio, cuya ultima
actualizaci6n se habia realizado en 1990, siguiendo las recomendaciones de la UNESCO, en el sentido de actualizar
cada cinco ahios un plan de estudios.
La nueva oferta educativa requiri6 un disefo curricular basado en criterios de pertinencia y flexibilidad, para lograr la
correspondencia entre los contenidos y las demandas de formaci6n profesional del mercado de trabajo, asi como para
adaptarla y actualizarla de acuerdo con los cambios tecnol6gicos y la dinamica social.
El replanteamiento que se llev6 a cabo de la estructura curricular se caracteriza por ser mixta, es decir, integrado por
asignaturas que proporcionan una formaci6n cientifica y sociohumanistica, y por m6dulos que proveen al alumno de
competencias propias del desempefio practico de la carrera que cursa.
La estructura curricular qued6 conformada por dos bloques: Formaci6n Basica, integrado por 19 asignaturas de las
areas de Lenguaje y Comunicaci6n, Ciencias Naturales e Hist6rico - Social; y, Formaci6n Ocupacional, organizado en
3 niveles ocupacionales: semicalificado, calificado, y, mandos y tecnicos de nivel medio; asi como el Programa de
Complementaci6n Academica, compuesto por 6 asignaturas a cursas en forma paralela a la formaci6n profesional
tecnica, que le dan acceso a la educaci6n superior.
Un aspecto importante a destacar, es la relaci6n que ha mantenido la oferta educativa y sus consiguientes planes y
programas de estudio con el equipamiento que se define y determina para cada una de las carreras que operan los
centros educativos del CONALEP, de nada valdria tener un desarrollo curricular adecuado sino se cuenta en los
planteles con la infraestructura y equipo que permitan a los alumnos alcanzar los objetivos educativos
correspondientes. En materia de equipo el Credito 3358-ME realiz6 una aportaci6n importante que fue acompanada
por una consecuente inversi6n del gobiemo federal para la creaci6n y mejora de infraestructura de espacios
educativos en los planteles, asi como la creaci6n de una base de datos que permite al Colegio saber con que equipo
cuenta cada plantel y sus condiciones fisicas.
La oferta educativa se continuara caracterizando por su flexibilidad, pertinencia y calidad. En el marco de la
federalizaci6n, se fortalecera la planeaci6n educativa estatal lo que implicara la determinaci6n de cierto tipo de
carreras que respondan a demandas especificas de su contexto y en combinaci6n con otros sistemas educativos de
O          Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



42
las entidades federativas. Los planes y programas de estudio recibiran un fuerte impulso por lo que hace a su disello y
desarrollo bajo el enfoque de competencias ocupacionales, lo que exigira mejorar la informaci6n sobre el
equipamiento y su vigencia de operaci6n.
A.2) MATERIAL DIDACTICO.
En el Informe de Medio Termino del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica se asentaban los siguientes datos: 'En
cuanto a los materiales didacticos impresos y audiovisuales se disenaron 38 nuevas cedulas de apoyo para el cuarto
grado semestral del plan 1990; se revisaron 18 y estan en proceso de diseno 75, asi como se redisefiaron 50
materiales audiovisuales y se encuentran en proceso de diseno 213n.
Por otra parte, en el punto de diagn6stico del Programa Institucional 1995-2000 relacionado con el material didactico
se describe: 'El Colegio Ileva a cabo una importante actividad: la elaboraci6n y distribuci6n, practicamente gratuita, de
materiales didacticos. Entre estos se encuentran los materiales escritos, audiovisuales y programas para
computadora". "El Conalep ha elaborado cerca de 700 titulos y mas de doce millones de volumenes de diversos
materales como cedulas, manuales, fasciculos, antologias y glosarios, ademas de materiales audiovisuales y
programas de c6mputo para apoyar el proceso educativo. Tambien se ha realizado un gran esfuerzo para dotar a las
bibliotecas de textos que sirvan de apoyo a los programas de estudio."
"A pesar de ello, no se ha logrado ia actualizaci6n permanente de dicho acervo a fin de asegurar su adecuaci6n y
pertinencia a los avances tecnol6gicos, ni tampoco se ha podido incrementarlo en lo que corresponde a los programas
informaticos y de multimedia."
En concordancia con esos objetvos, el Programa Institucional propus6 como objetivo la revisi6n y actualizaci6n de los
materiales didacticos, a fin de que sean acordes a los avances disciplinarios del nivel medio superior, asi como a los
cientificos y tecnol6gicos predominantes en el ambito productivo.
El cumplimiento del objetivo se logr6 mediante la adopci6n de la estrategia de coeditar los libros de la formaci6n
basica y adquirir libros para la formaci6n ocupacional.
En las coediciones, los libros son elaborados por especialistas de las diferentes disciplinas que conforman a las
asignaturas de la formaci6n basica, por lo que se asegura la correspondencia de su enfoque y tematica con los
manejados en el nivel medio superior del pais. Tambien se ha buscado que el formato de los libros facilite su
comprensi6n y manejo por parte de los alumnos. La coedici6n de libros comprende la elaboraci6n del libro para el
alumno, asi como uno para el docente, en donde se le proporciona una guia metodol6gica para la imparticion de cada
asignatura.
A partir de aqui, se persistira en la coedici6n de libros y en su actualizaci6n, habra un fuerte despliegue de creaci6n de
materiales didacticos para la formaci6n ocupacional y se iniciara un probable proyecto piloto de integraci6n de
bibliotecas virtuales; asimismo, se propiciara que los alumnos y docentes de la instituci6n aprovechen mejor los
recursos didacticos y los evaluen en consecuencia.
B) CAPACITACI6N DE INSTRUCTORES. (PERSONAL DOCENTE).
La capacitaci6n del personal docente que ha colaborado en el Colegio ha estado en concordancia con los distintos
modelos academicos que la instituci6n ha definido en los 20 anos de su existencia. Para atender a los profesores
durante el periodo de vida del proyecto, se han formulado el "Programa general de desarrollo y formaci6n de
docentes e instructores" (1994), el 'Programa de formaci6n, actualizaci6n, desarrollo y especializaci6n" (1995) y el
'Plan integral de formaci6n y desarrollo docente" (1996-1998).
El Plan Integral de Formaci6n y Desarrollo Docente (PIFDD) comprende las siguientes vertientes: "Formaci6n
pedag6gica para la ciencia y la tecnologia', "Desarrollo de habilidades informaticas b6sicas", "Actualizaci6n profesional
y especializaci6n tecnol6gica" y 'Evaluaci6n y certificaci6n de la docencia". el PIFDD ha logrado delimitar las
funciones del docente, las caracterisUicas academicas y profesionales con que cuenta, ha identificado sus necesidades
O_ Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica



43
de formaci6n y actualizaci6n.
Con la implementaci6n de las vertientes se ha podido dotar a los docentes de los elementos tecnico - pedag6gicos, asi
como del conocimiento de nuevas estrategias y metodologias didacticas y el uso de herramientas informaticas
necesarias para mejorar el proceso de ensenanza - aprendizaje.
Los programas han respondido a las necesidades de formacion y actualizaci6n manifestadas por los docentes del
Colegio, a la vez que se han estructurado de manera flexible, gratuita y de participaci6n voluntaria. Lo que ha
permitido la incorporaci6n y aceptaci6n de los docentes.
El impacto de los resultados de la formaci6n docente en el Colegio se determina mediante la opini6n de los
estudiantes de recibir una mejor educaci6n, de un mejor desempeno de los profesores y de una constante
autoevaluaci6n de la labor que llevan a cabo.
Dentro del Plan Integral de Formaci6n y Desarrollo Docente se atendieron a 11,423 docentes en el programa de
formaci6n pedag6gica; 8,901 docentes en el programa de actualizaci6n profesional y 1,298 docentes en el programa
de Habilidades InformAticas BAsicas. Se evalu6 a 17,987 docentes y se diseniaron 144 perfiles de competencia
docente. Como complemento a su formaci6n y actualizaci6n se transmitieron, a traves del Sistema Interactivo de
Televisi6n Educativa a Distancia (SITED), 150 programas con una duraci6n minima de dos horas cada una.
En el marco del modelo academico del CONALEP, el desarrollo del personal docente de la instituci6n continuara
siendo uno de los puntos fundamentales que contribuyan permanentemente a mejorar la formaci6n de profesionales
ticnicos, en este sentido, se profundizarA en la formaci6n pedag6gica, en la mejora de habilidades informaticas y en la
actualizaci6n en los campos ocupacionales y didacticas especificas de los mismos.
C) CENTROS DE ASISTENCIA Y SERVICIOS TECNOLOGICOS (CAST).
Para contribuir a lograr el objetivo general del Tercer Proyecto y como punto de partida para conocer donde era
factible crear los CAST, el Colegio realiz6 en 1992 un estudio denominado "Apoyo y desarrollo tecnol6gico". Como
resultado del estudio, los CAST quedaron ubicados en los siguientes lugares de la republica mexicana: Cuautitlan,
Distrito Federal; Zapopan, Jalisco; Matamoros, Tamaulipas; Guadalupe, Nuevo Le6n; Cd. JuArez, Chihuahua; Le6n,
Guanajuato; Tijuana, Baja California; y, Coatzacoalcos, Veracruz. Los CAST tienen dos funciones bAsicas,
proporcionar servicos de capacitaci6n y brindar servicios tecnol6gicos a la micro, pequena y mediana industria.
No obstante que el desarrollo de los CAST no ha sido homogeneo, debido a sus diferentes niveles de equipamiento y
numero de personal, podriamos afirmar que su principal logro es que las micros, pequenias y medianas empresas, e
inclusive algunas grandes empresas de ciertas regiones del pais, cuentan con una alternativa que pone a su
disposici6n servicios de capacitaci6n especializada en tecnologia actual y servicios tecnol6gicos que les permiten
resolver problemas especificos de producci6n y los apoyan para incrementar su productividad y la calidad de sus
productos.
De igual manera, los servicios que brindan los CAST impactan de manera positiva en la capacitaci6n y actualizaci6n
de los recursos humanos que demandan las industrias del pais, contribuyendo con esto a elevar la productividad y
calidad de las empresas y dada la diversidad de cursos que ofertan estos mismos, estan a disposici6n del publico en
general y de instituciones del sector gubernamental.
Debido a que todos los servicios que ofertan los CAST tienen un costo, se ha establecido una metodologia para el
calculo de las cuotas de recuperaci6n que deben pagar los usuarios de estos, lo cual permite la reposici6n,
actualizaci6n o sustituci6n de los equipos, la capacitaci6n o actualizaci6n del personal de los mismos centros y
acondicionamiento o adaptaci6n de las instalaciones para optimizar su operaci6n.
A traves de los anios los CAST han incrementado el porcentaje de su recuperaci6n de costos de operaci6n ya que en
1994 este fue del orden del 12% y en 1998 se obtuvo el 46%, con lo cual se espera, de mantenerse esta tendencia,
que en el mediano plazo estos Centros puedan llegar a ser autofinanciables.
O_ Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional T6cnica



44
Los resultados obtenidos por los CAST en el periodo 1992-1998 fueron los siguientes: se impartieron 5,146 cursos de
capacitaci6n, con una duraci6n de 219,975 horas, en las que se atendieron un total de 65,398 personas; por lo que se
refiere a la prestacion de servicios tecnol6gicos se brindaron 3,565; y, los ingresos obtenidos por ambos tipos de
servicios sumaron en conjunto 23.2 millones de pesos.
El programa de los Centros de Asistencia y Servicios Tecnol6gicos es factible de sostener, debido a que sus servicios
responden a una necesidad real que tienen las empresas en el pais y los resultados obtenidos por bstos desde su
inicio de operaciones han sido ascendentes hasta 1998. Se espera que con la implantaci6n de los sistemas de
aseguramiento de la calidad y la acreditaci6n de sus laboratorios de pruebas y calibraciones se incremente aun mas la
aceptaci6n de sus servicios de capacitaci6n y tecnol6gicos, respectivamente.
2) EXPANSION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES DE CAPACITACION.
A) CAPACITACI6N PARA Y EN EL TRABAJO.
Una de las vertientes fundamentales del Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica lo constituy6 sin duda alguna el
impulsar las acciones de capacitaci6n 'Para" y 'En" el trabajo, la pRmera de ellas se emprendi6 conjuntamente con la
Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsi6n Social a traves de su programa de becas para desempleados conocido como
PROBECAT. Esta capacitaci6n se realiza en las instalaciones de los planteles del CONALEP aprovechando tanto la
infraestructura ya existente como la nueva infraestructura que con recursos del gobierno federal se creo en ellos tales
como aulas, talleres y laboratorios; asimismo, se aprovecha la experiencia que en capacitaci6n tienen los instructores
de las escuelas del Colegio.
La capacitaci6n "En" el trabajo tiene su sustento en la vinculaci6n que guarda el Colegio con los sectores publico y
privado, asi como en la capacidad de respuesta de la instituci6n para atender sus necesidades de capacitaci6n de una
parte del personal que labora en ellas. Esta modalidad busca mejorar la productividad de individuos y empresas, se
realiza en las instalaciones de quienes demandan la capacitaci6n o en las instalaciones de los planteles CONALEP y
representa una de las opciones para obtener ingresos propios.
Para proporcionar ambos servicios se desarrollan contenidos, material didactico, se capacita y actualiza a los
instructores, se optimiza el uso de los espacios educativos, se realizan negociaciones con los empleadores y con las
instituciones, se firman convenios, en fin se llevan a cabo todas las acdividades necesarias para brindar un buen
servicio y que los clientes del Colegio queden satisfechos.
El trabajo realizado hasta la fecha ha tenido diversos niveles de impacto en la insttuci6n, por ejemplo, se paso de un
enfoque concentrado en las oficinas nacionales a un enfoque desconcentrado hacia las representaciones y planteles,
de una capacitaci6n basada en la oferta a una basada en ia demanda.
Entre 1991 y 1998 se impartieron un total de 26,461 cursos en ambas modalidades de capacitaci6n, correspondiendo
13,075 a la capacitaci6n 'Para" el trabajo y 13,396 a la capacitaci6n "En" el trabajo, beneficiando a 341,472 becarios y
a 204,897 trabajadores, respectivamente, para un total de 546,366 personas capacitadas para desempenar alguna
labor. El impacto a nivel social, en el caso de la capacitaci6n 'Para" el trabajo, creemos, se ha dado en incrementar las
posibilidades que tienen los capacitados de emplearse y de insertarse en el mercado laboral con una mejor o con otra
cualificaci6n para desempefar un trabajo; por lo que respecta a la capacitaci6n 'En" el trabajo, se contribuye a mejorar
el desempero de los trabajadores, a su eventual movilidad laboral y salarial y a propiciar que las empresas decidan
invertir en la capacitaci6n de sus trabajadores como un medio para ser mas productivas, competitivas, sostenerse en
el mercado y continuar siendo una fuente de empleo.
El programa buscara atender en mayor medida la capacitaci6n "En" el trabajo, su enfoque estara basado en normas
de competencia laboral, lo cual preve un aumento de la demanda por parte del sector privado; asimismo, se mejorara
el acopio y tratamiento de la informaci6n y se afinara la recuperaci6n de costos.
O Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica



45
B) PROGRAMA DE ATENCI6N A ZONAS MARGINADAS.
En los afios de 1993 y 1994 el Colegio realiz6 un estudio con financiamiento de Banco Mundial, para determinar la
factbilidad de establecer en CONALEP un programa para dar atenci6n a la poblaci6n que habita en zonas marginadas
rurales y urbanas, y a su vez obtener una metodologia para proporcionar dicha atenci6n y contar con sistemas de
informaci6n para apoyar la operaci6n y evaluar los resultados. Este estudio dio origen al programa de Atenci6n de
Zonas Marginadas (PAZM) cuya implementaci6n en el Colegio inici6 durante 1995.
El PAZM es el medio a traves del cual el CONALEP proporciona capacitaci6n social, asesoria tecnol6gica y asistencia
comunitaria a las comunidades marginadas del area de influencia de cada plantel. La poblaci6n objetivo del programa
habita en zonas marginadas urbanas y rurales con niveles de marginacion media, alta y muy alta.
Los servicios se seleccionan y determinan mediante un estudio de sus necesidades, condiciones y posibilidades; el
analisis de sus caracteristicas econ6micas, fisico - geograficas y socioculturales; la concertaci6n con la comunidad y
los sectores publico, privado y social.
La oferta del PAZM contempla cursos de capacitaci6n social basica con una duraci6n entre 40 y 360 horas, con el
requisito para los participantes de saber leer y escribir, ademas de ser mayores de 15 ahos de edad. Algunos de los
cursos mas demandados son los siguientes: electricidad, carpinteria, corte y confecci6n, primeros auxilios, soldadura,
reparaci6n de aparatos electrodomesticos y conservaci6n de alimentos.
El PAZM presta una gama de servicios comunitarios que pretenden mejorar el entorno de las comunidades y la
calidad de vida de sus pobladores, como son mejoramiento de espacios educativos, reparaci6n de aparatos
electrodomesticos, servicios dentales, consultas medicas, primeros auxilios y adecuaci6n de viviendas.
Los resultados alcanzados a 1998 son los siguientes: se tienen en operaci6n 101 unidades m6viles, se han impartida
un total de 5,117 cursos de capacitaci6n social, beneficiando a 118,590 personas y 5,207 comunidades; contando con
una cobertura a nivel nacional. La aplicaci6n de los conocimientos adquiridos durante la capacitaci6n, regularmente lo
usan para el desempeflo de algun oficio que les permite autoemplearse o para la creaci6n de microempresas de
acuerdo a las caracteristicas y zonas donde se encuentran las comunidades. Tambien la capacitaci6n recibida la
utilizan para mejorar lo que tienen en su vivienda, reparar o construir un mueble, arreglar su ropa y la de su familia.
Se han ofrecido 20,374 servicios comunitarios, atendiendo un total de 16,132 comunidades y beneficiando a
2,239,146 personas, dentro de los cuales en materia de salud se atendieron 278,729 personas; el programa estuvo
apoyado por 388,101 alumnos.
En el marco de la federalizaci6n del CONALEP y del Programa de Atenci6n a Zonas Marginadas, se participara
activamente en la capacitaci6n y asesoria del personal del Colegio en representaciones y planteles de tal forma que el
periodo de transici6n que se espera no genere confusiones en cuanto a los lineamientos de operaci6n para el PAZM.
C) PROGRAMA DE AUTOEMPLEO PARA ALUMNOS.
En 1996, para evaluar el programa se efectuaron reuniones con los responsables de su operaci6n en el sistema
CONALEP. En este mismo aho, se inicia un proceso de fortalecimiento del modelo, fundamentado en el analisis
referencial que consider6 la evaluaci6n de siete modelos de formaci6n emprendedora utilizados en el Instituto de
Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Universidad Iberoamericana, Instituto Tecnol6gico Aut6nomo de Mexico, Instituto
Politecnico Nacional, Universidad Aut6noma Metropolitana, Generaci6n Empresarial Mexicana y Desarrollo
Empresarial Mexicano.
El enfoque del Programa se replante6 para sus futuras etapas, a fin de que su objetivo no se limitara exclusivamente a
la motivaci6n y capacitaci6n de empresarios potenciales o reales, sino al desarrollo de valores emprendedores, que
fomentara una nueva cultura laboral, a partir de actitudes favorables a (a creatividad y participaci6n positiva de
alumnos y egresados, ya sea como empresarios o bien como empleados de organizaciones ya establecidas.
O Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



46
En noviembre de 1998 se puso en operaci6n el nuevo esquema normativo capacitando a 22 multiplicadores, quienes
en diciembre de ese mismo ano participaron en la capacitaci6n de 260 responsables operativos del programa a nivel
plantel, lo que represent6 una cobertura del 100% del universo del Colegio. Respecto a material didactico, se concluy6
el primer m6dulo denominado "El emprendedor y la elaboraci6n de su plan de negocios" y en relaci6n con la difusi6n
de la nueva versi6n del programa se disenaron y distribuyeron tripticos y carteles.
El Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica le permiti6 al Colegio impulsar el Programa de Autoempleo para Alumnos
y Egresados, dando respuesta a la necesidad de romper con los esquemas tradicionales de formaci6n que inducen a
los egresados a ocuparse en un trabajo asalariado, motivandolos a la constituci6n de pequen as empresas, que no
s6lo les permiten la opci6n del autoempleo sino que promueven un mayor desarrollo de las distintas localidades,
generando fuentes de empleo adicionales y arraigo en sus lugares de origen.
Podemos afirmar que el subcomponente tiene un fuerte impacto en quienes participan en 6l ya que es un medio que
les permite poner en practica los conocimientos aprendidos, las habilidades desarrolladas y las actitudes
internalizadas en su propio proyecto laboral.
3. MEJORAS EN LA EFICIENCIA Y EFICACIA DEL CONALEP.
A) DESCENTRALIZACI6N DE SERVICIOS DE MANTENIMIENTO DE EQUIPO Y EXPANSION DE PROGRAMAS
DE PRODUCCION DE EQUIPO.
El uso constante de los equipos por parte de alumnos y maestros durante el proceso de ensenanza aprendizaje van
deteriorando paulafinamente las condiciones del mismo, para mantenerlo en 6ptimas condiciones de operaci6n en el
Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica se contemplaban dos estrategias que permitirian alcanzar dicho prop6sito,
una era la de establecer Centros Regionales de Mantenimiento en distintas partes de la republica y otra la de
fortalecer el mantenimiento en cada uno de los planteles del sistema CONALEP.
Con respecto a la primera estrategia, los centros que se establecieron fueron nueve ubicados al interior de los
planteles Ciudad Azteca, Hermosillo 111, Irapuato, lztapalapa 1, Merida 11, Guadalupe, Villa Hermosa 1, Tijuana I y
Centro Mexicano Italiano; sin embargo, no han funcionado como centros regionales sino para dar mantenimiento
preventivo y correctivo al equipo de talleres y laboratorios de los planteles en los cuales estan ubicados. Lo anterior en
virtud de que en la practica, para los equipos que requerian mantenimiento mayor se hacia necesario la petici6n del
servicio al fabricante o su representante en Mexico, dada la especializaci6n de tecnicos requerida para realizar el
servicio; para el caso de mantenimiento menor, se complicaba el traslado de los equipos hacia dichos centros.
Para fortalecer el programa academico, estan siendo aprovechados como espacios de practicas tecnol6gicas de los
alumnos para intensificar y mejorar el desarrollo de habilidades laborales.
La segunda estrategia es la que ha dado mejores resultados porque en cada uno de los planteles se ha fortalecido el
area de mantenimiento, lo que hace que no dependan de un centro regional sino que ellos mismos sean quienes le
den mantenimiento preventivo al equipo, esta estrategia ha rendido buenos frutos porque ha sido acompanada de una
fuerte sensibilizaci6n, conocimiento y aprendizaje de los alumnos del uso, cuidado, limpieza, condiciones adecuadas
para su manejo y seguridad e higiene para operar el equipo, es decir, se ha impulsado una filosofia de calidad en el
uso didactico del equipo y de la responsabilidad compartida de los estudiantes para conservar los materiales que
utilizan en su propio provecho.
En relaci6n con la producci6n de equipo por parte de los alumnos en los planteles, el Colegio continuo con el
programa de autoequipamiento establecido y financiado desde el Segundo Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica. Dicho
programa ha propiciado el uso 6ptimo de instalaciones y equipo, de ahorro en los planteles participantes y sobre todo
ha tenido incidencia en el aprendizaje de los alumnos ya que son ellos, con la guia de sus maestros, quienes se
involucran en un trabajo productivo que les reporta beneficios a ellos y a sus planteles.
^ _   Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica



47
B) MEJORA DE LA CAPACIDAD ADMINISTRATIVA DEL CONALEP.
B.1 INFORMATICA Y TELECOMUNICACIONES.
Para 1994 se habia concluido la construccion del Centro de Informatica y Comunicaciones y la adquisici6n de equipo
de c6mputo y lenguajes de programaci6n de reciente tecnologia.
Para el periodo 1995-2000 en materia de informatica se buscaron tres objetivos: promover en el ambito docente y
estudiantil del Colegio la adquisici6n de competencias basicas en el uso de las tecnologias y software con mayor
demanda en el mercado, ampliar y consolidar los programas de capacitaci6n y actualizar los bienes informaticos del
Colegio. Para lograr tales objetivos se disen6 y puso en marcha el programa de desarrollo informatico de la instituci6n,
el cual ha dado como resultados la incorporaci6n de las asignaturas de computaci6n y la de aplicaciones bajo
ambiente grafico en los planes de estudio de las 29 carreras que ofrece la institucion; tambien dicho programa permitio
disminuir el numero de alumnos por computadora, pasando de 32 en 1995 a 12.6 en la actualidad.
El Colegio ha avanzado paulatinamente en el desarrollo de sistemas informaticos para agilizar sus proceos y
aprovechar mejor la informaci6n generada, asi a la fecha cuenta con un sistema de recursos humanos y n6mina, un
sistema de control financiero, un sistema de gesti6n escolar automatizada y un sistema de capacitaci6n en proceso de
depuraci6n.
Por lo que respecta a las telecomunicaciones, el Colegio cuenta con la Red del sistema de televisi6n educativa
(SITED) para apoyar el proceso de ensenanza aprendizaje al difundir cursos, teleconferencias y programas culturales,
en dicha red setienen instalados 212 equipos de recepci6n satelital.
Por otra parte se tiene la res de area loca concebida para dar atenci6n a los usuariosde las distintas areas del Colegio,
jpara lo cual se instalaron equipos de c6mputo como estaciones de trabajo y aplicaciones para el usuario final.
Asimismo, se realiz6 el proyecto de la Red Nacional de Comunicaciones para que planteles, representaciones y
oficinas nacionales se comuniquen entre si de forma agil y eficiente. Este proyecto es fundamental en el cambio de las
necesidades de comunicaci6n que se tendran en el proceso de federalizaci6n del Colegio.
El Colegio continuara impulsando fuertemente la utilizaci6n de la informatica y las telecomunicaciones como dos
herramientas tecnol6gicas indispensables tanto para mejorar el proceso ensenanza - aprendizaje como para su uso
en el proceso administrativo y organizativo de la insbituci6n.
B.2) PROMOCION Y ASEGURAMIENTO DE LA CALIDAD.
Con el afan de seguir avanzando en el camino hacia la excelencia, durante el ejercicio de referencia se trabaj6
intensamente para incrementar el numero de personas capacitadas en el area de calidad. A traves de esta
capacitaci6n, se pretende brindar al personal los conocimientos y herramientas necesarias que les permitan ofrecer un
servicio de calidad. En este sentido se disen6 y elabor6 el material de apoyo y antologias de lecturas de los siguientes
cursos - taller y videodinamicas: Planeaci6n Estrategica para la Calidad, Valores Conalep, Responsabilidad,
Estandares de Calidad en el Servicio, Calidad en el Servicio, Administraci6n con Calidad, El Promap y el MAI, La
Vuelta al MAI en 12 minutos.
En el periodo 1995-1998 se realizaron cursos de capacitaci6n en t6picos de calidad, considerando participantes de
todos los planteles y representaciones, asi como de Oficinas nacionales. Ademas para asegurar la adopci6n de la
filosofia, conceptos, metodologia y herramientas de la calidad, se elaboraron y distribuyeron 380 antologia y se
enviaron 254 videos sobre calidad educativa, fortaleciendo a 159 comites escolares que se tienen instalados.
La continuidad a estas acciones permitira en el mediano plazo que el Colegio cuente con los elementos que se
requieren para transitar de una etapa de gestbon normalizada a una fase de mejora continua.
O_ Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



48
B.3) MODERNIZACI6N ADMINISTRATIVA INTEGRAL
El Programa de Modernizaci6n Administrativa Integral (MAI) surge como un proyecto que incorpora las metodologias y
enfoques mas exitosos en materia de gesti6n administrativa como son ia planeaci6n estrategica, la calidad total, y el
rediseno de procesos. El MAI busca hacer no s6lo mas modema y eficaz la gesti6n administrativa del Colegio, sino
promover una nueva cultura laboral de excelencia, apoyada en la capacitaci6n permanente del personal y en una
nueva organizacion de trabajo, sustentada en el desarrollo de procesos para lograr una operaci6n altamente
desconcentrada.
En el marco de este programa se aplic6 una encuesta a nivel nacional para conocer la problematica de los procesos
desarrollados en planteles, asi como las necesidades y expectaUivas de los usuarios. Con los datos obtenidos en la
encuesta se llev6 a cabo un diagn6stico estrategico basado en los conceptos y herramientas de la reingenieria de
procesos y la calidad total, a fin de determinar la situaci6n academica del Colegio desde la perspectiva de lo que
queremos que sea en el futuro.
Como resultado del analisis de la informaci6n recabada, se obtuvo la integraci6n de 10 carpetas, correspondientes a
cada uno de los siguientes puntos: Promoci6n, Atenci6n a la Demanda, Planes y Programas de Estudio, Docentes,
Proceso Ensenanza - Aprendizaje, Capacitaci6n, Materiales y Prototipos Didacticos, Vinculaci6n, Infraestructura, y
Equipamiento y Administraci6n. Estos estudios contienen la descripci6n y problematica de los procesos sustantivos,
que de manera global permitieron formular la propuesta para el rediseno y mejora de los procesos del CONALEP.
Se realiz6 un Diagn6stico de Evoluci6n y Madurez de la organizaci6n en Oficinas Nacionales. Esta herramienta
permiti6 medir el impacto que los factores del ambiente laboral producen en la estructura academico - administrativa,
revelando las debilidades y fortalezas, la interacci6n entre los elementos de la cultura organizacional, la actitud del
personal hacia el cambio y el nivel de evoluci6n y madurez organizacional del Colegio.
Parte importante del proyecto MAI ha sido la reestructuraci6n organizacional basada en procesos. Se diseni6 una
nueva estructura organizacional para planteles, representaciones y areas centrales, con base en el rediseflo de sus
procesos; para ello con la aplicaci6n de la metodologia de reingenieria, se identificaron 23 procesos, mismos que
fueron agrupados en 3 macroprocesos sustantivos: Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica, Capacitaci6n, y Promoci6n y
Vinculaci6n, asi como 2 macroprocesos de apoyo: Administraci6n y Planeaci6n, y Programaci6n y Presupuestaci6n.
Los resultados obtenidos en este periodo, no s6lo dejan ver el logro de los objetivos general y del componente del
proyecto, sino fundamentalmente permiten establecer un cambio radical en la operaci6n y administraci6n del Colegio,
pasando de una instituci6n de gesti6n convencional a una instituci6n normalizada y con claras perspectivas que
habran alcanzar la mejora continua y excelencia en el siglo XXI, todo ello con un personal no s6lo con conocimientos,
habilidades y actitudes propias para ofrecer con oportunidad, eficacia y calidad los servicios que ofrece, sino tambien
con una nueva cultura institucional.
C) MEJORA DE LA RECUPERACION DE COSTOS Y CONTABILIDAD DE LOS SERVICIOS QUE PROPORCIONA
EL CONALEP.
El financiamiento de la educaci6n tecnol6gica que imparte el Colegio tiene diversas fuentes: el subsidio federal, los
ingresos propios, las donaciones y credito externo. Todos estos recursos permiten mantener en operaci6n los
servicios que se proporcionan. Los ingresos propios se han convertido en una alternativa para el Colegio obtenidos a
traves de recuperar costos mediante el cobro de colegiaturas, venta de servicios de capacitaci6n y asistencia tecnica.
En el Tercer Proyecto de Capacitaci6n Tecnica se plante6 como meta para el ano de 1996 tener una recuperaci6n de
costos del 20%, misma que se alcanzo y se ha mantenido hasta 1998. Desde que inici6 el proyecto se definieron los
rubros que se iban a considerar para calcular dicha recuperaci6n, referida fundamentalmente a los gastos de
administraci6n de la instituci6n. Es importante senalar que aun falta un buen numero de elementos por afinar para
tener informacion que permita tomar mejores decisiones sobre la recuperaci6n de costos.
& Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



49
D) MEJORA DEL FLUJO DE ESTUDIANTES, EN LA EFICIENCIA TERMINAL Y EN EL EMPLEO DE LOS
EGRESADOS.
Como un primer acercamiento, el Colegio en 1994 realiz6 un estudio para determinar la situaci6n en la cual se
encontraban los egresados. Dicho estudio se elabor6 considerando las generaciones 91, 92 y 93; 13 grupos de
carreras y 6 regiones del pals.
La encuesta de 1994 se conform6 considerando las siguientes categorias: actividad actual (ocupaci6n o empleo),
empleabilidad (tiempo en encontrar empleo), relacig6n entre formaci6n y ocupaci6n, y ingreso. Se obtuvieron un total
de 1,399 cuestionarios utilizables (93%) y algunos de los resultados obtenidos por indicador se muestran a
continuaci6n:
*   Condici6n de actividad. El 76.2% de los egresados se encontraron ocupados; un 12.8 %, desocupados abiertos;
el 1I % restante, dedicados a actividades del hogar, estudiando, buscando empleo y otros.
*   Tiempo en encontrar empleo. El 62.01 % report6 menos de 3 meses; el 24.6 % de 3 a 6 meses y el 13.38 %
restante, de 6 a 12 meses.
*   Relacion formaci6n - ocupaci6n. El 38.4 % report6 'muy relacionada", el 26.3 % 'mas o menos relacionada", el
14.5 % "poco relacionada'; y el 20.8 % restante 'ninguna relaci6n o no respondi6".
Con los logros obtenidos en la encuesta de 1994, se dieron los elementos y la experiencia al personal del area de
seguimiento de egresados del Colegio para la aplicaci6n de una encuesta en 1998. Algunas observaciones
particulares de los resultados generales de la encuesta de egresados del CONALEP, generaciones 1990-1993 a 1994-
1997, son las siguientes:
-  La evaluaci6n que hacen los egresados sobre los servicios escolares que ofrece el Colegio como son: exposici6n
dominio de temas de los profesores, relaci6n maestro - alumno, relaci6n entre companeros, calidad de las
prActicas en talleres y laboratorios, prActicas en empresas, por lo general son buenos, sin embargo existen
carreras tales como: Protesista Dental, Salud Comunitaria y Control de la Contaminaci6n Ambiental, en la que lo
egresados no estAn satsfechos. Asimismo, las carreras que mejor evaluaron los servicios son: Procesamiento de
Alimentos, Construcci6n especialidad Urbana, Administraci6n de Empresas Comerciales, Asistente Ejecutivo y
Contabilidad Fiscal.
  Con relaci6n a la informaci6n que recibieron los egresados para formar microempresas propias, s6lo el 44.3%
opin6 que era buena y muy buena.
  En relaci6n con las instalaciones de talleres y laboratorios, el 61 % opin6 que son buenas y muy buenas.
*  En lo concerniente a los planes y programas de estudio, el 68% opin6 que son buenos o muy buenos, el 26%
regular y s6lo el 4% que son malos.
*  La encuesta muestra un porcentaje promedio de titulaci6n del 74% de los egresados, habiendose incrementado
considerablemente en los ultimos ahos, hasta llegar a un 78.3% en la generaci6n 94-97.
*  De los egresados que declararon que trabajan, 65% lo hacen como obreros calificados, el 19% como obreros no
calificados y el 8% como trabajadores por su cuenta.
*  Los principales sectores donde trabajan lo hacen en: la industria manufacturera 40.2%, en servicios comunales,
sociales y personales 25%, y comercio, restaurantes y hoteles 21.6%.
Con la experiencia y resultados derivados de la encuesta de 1994 y la aplicada en 1998 con subsidio federal, se
pretenden realizar estudios a partir del ano 2000, primeramente con objeto de evaluar los alcances obtenidos con el
Modelo Academico del Conalep que comenz6 a operar en septiembre de 1997 y a los egresados que concluyeron el
O          Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



50
Programa de Complementaci6n de Estudios para Ingreso a la Educaci6n Superior (ProCEIES) y posteriormente que
sean de manera permanente, a fin de contar con indicadores que continuen retroalimentando el quehacer del Colegio.
Por otra parte, con los resultados que se obtengan de dicho estudio, no s6lo se obtendran los indicadores arriba
mencionados, sino tambien se podra detectar quienes son los egresados mas sobresalientes que se han distinguido
por su desarrollo profesional, en cuales areas perciben salarios mas altos, quienes han creado su propia
microempresa con exito, entre otros, lo que complementara la evaluaci6n de los alcances y perspectivas de la
Instituci6n.
Con las bases de datos arrojadas en la capiura de las encuestas, se pretende realizar estudios especificos, sobre todo
en aquellos casos en los que los indicadores se consideraron con algunas debilidades, con el fin de tomar decisiones
para corregir las posibles desviaciones, lo mismo en aquellos que los indicadores muestran fortaleza para detectar su
naturaleza y mantenerlos o bien reforzarlos.
Paralelamente, se fomentara el acercamiento con los egresados a traves de la creaci6n de Comites de Egresados en
cada uno de los planteles del Sistema, paso previo a la consolidaci6n o creaci6n de asociaciones de egresados que se
tiene previsto realizar, a fin de involucrarlos con los Comites de Vinculaci6n existentes y el sector productivo,
fortaleciendo la imagen del profesional tecnico ante ia sociedad.
VINCULACI1N CON EL SECTOR PRODUCTIVO.
La vinculacion con los diferentes sectores y en particular con el productivo, es fundamental para la buena marcha del
Colegio ya que permite conocer las necesidades de la planta productiva del pals. Esta relaci6n es indispensable entre
otras cosas, para orientar los planes y programas de estudio, facilitar la incorporaci6n de los egresados al mercado de
trabajo, allegarse de recursos econ6micos en apoyo a sus alumnos, coadyuvar en la prestaci6n del servicio social y la
realizaci6n de prActcas profesionales, entre otros.
Por lo anterior, se realiz6 en una primera etapa, un estudio minucioso sobre la situaci6n que prevalecia en el
CONALEP en materia de Vinculacidn, derivado del analisis que se efectu6, se observ6 una disminuci6n de la
participaci6n, el nivel y la representatividad de los 6rganos de vinculaci6n y por lo mismo, su aportaci6n al desarrollo
del CONALEP fue reducida, ya que en la mayoria de los casos las determinaciones se tomaban centralmente, lo que
redundaba en una falta de pertinencia en los servicios que ofrecia.
Durante 1995 se establecen diversas lineas de acci6n para fortalecer el Proceso de Vinculaci6n Institucional, que es la
base en el que se sustentan los programas academicos y de capacitaci6n del Colegio. En tal sentido, se conforma el
esquema, en una primera instancia, de los COMITES DE VINCULACION ESTATAL (CVE), 6rganos colegiados que
permiten la participaci6n de los sectores mas representativos de la sociedad en el quehacer institucional del Colegio,
mediante apoyo, asesoria y consulta que garanticen una labor mas apegada a los intereses del organismo.
En el mismo aho, se inicio la constituci6n de los CVE en el Estado de Nuevo Le6n, contando a la fecha con 31 CVE
(de igual numero de entidades federativas) y 2 Municipales, el de Cd. Juarez, Chih. y el de G6mez Palacio, Dgo. La
constituci6n de los CVE, permiti6 impulsar la creacion de los COMITES DE VINCULACION DE PLANTEL (CVP),
contando actualmente con todos los CVP de los 260 Planteles.
Por otra parte, se han realizado mas de 100 reuniones regionales de vinculaci6n, con la participaci6n de presidentes y
miembros de los CVE y de los CVP; representantes de los sectores productivo, publico, educativo y social;
representantes estatales y regionales; directores y los responsables de la vinculaci6n en Planteles, Cast y
Representaciones, en las que se atendieron los aspectos siguientes:
*   Participaci6n activa de empresarios y expertos en 29 paneles para modificar los contenidos curriculares, de las
29 carreras de la nueva oferta educativa, con base a las expectativas de la economia y de desarrollo a nivel local,
regional, estatal y nacional;
   Definicion de los parametros de la vinculacion institucional, mediante el programa anual de vinculaci6n, por cada
O_ Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



51
una de las unidades administrativas desconcentradas;
*   Definici6n de los indicadores de la vinculaci6n, (funcionamiento del comite de vinculaci6n de plantel;
acomodamiento de egresados; obtenci6n y otorgamiento de becas y estimulos econ6micos;. suscripci6n de
acuerdos y convenios; y obtenci6n de donaciones ) a fin de evaluar su impacto en apoyo a la formaci6n integral
de los educandos; incremento del patrimonio del Colegio, a traves de donaciones y al acomodamiento de sus
egresados al mercado laboral, con lo cual se estableci6 un sistema de indicadores de la vinculaci6n (SIVIN);
*   Reordenamiento y establecimiento de la normatividad para el proceso de vinculaci6n institucional del CONALEP,
con el objeto de estandarizar el quehacer de la vinculaci6n en las unidades administrativas desconcentradas,
destacando:
Manual del Proceso de Vinculaci6n Institucional; Marco Conceptual y Lineamientos Generales del Proceso de
Vinculaci6n Institucional; Reglamento de los Comites de Vinculaci6n del CONALEP; Guia para la Integraci6n y
Funcionamiento del Comite de Vinculaci6n de Plantel; Guia para la formalizaci6n de acciones de Vinculaci6n;
Lineamientos para la Distribuci6n de Becas y Estimulos Econ6micos para los Alumnos del CONALEP; Guia para
la Obtencion y Otorgamiento de Becas y Estimulos Econ6micos; Guia para la Obtenci6n de Donaciones; Guia
para el Acomodamiento de Egresados: Bolsa de Trabajo; Auditoria de Eficiencia y Calidad para la Vinculaci6n
Institucional y Manual del Proceso de la Vinculaci6n Institucional, bajo el esquema federalizado.
*   Definici6n y establecimiento de una auditoria de eficiencia y calidad para garantizar la participaci6n del CONALEP
y los diferentes sectores en los programas academicos del Colegio; y
*   Definici6n del proceso de vinculaci6n institucional, bajo el esquema federalizado.
Con el impulso que se la ha dado al quehacer de la vinculaci6n institucional, los resultados mAs significativos
reportados por las unidades desconcentradas a la Direcci6n de Vinculaci6n entre 1997 y 1998 son:
* Suscripcion y seguimiento de mAs de 2,724 convenios y acuerdos, con los diferentes sectores; obtenci6n de 9,335
becas con un monto aproximado de $ 6' 775,168.39, de las cuales el 55% son alimenticias; el 17% son
econ6micas y el 28% son para transporte; Obtencit5n de 2,946 donaciones, destacando donaciones de mobiliario,
material de consumo para practicas escolares, equipo y accesorios de c6mputo, equipo deportivo, material para
mantenimiento de los Planteles y Cast.
Asimismo se mantiene una estrecha relaci6n de caracter permanente con los diferentes sectores, a fin de mantener
actualizados los planes y programas de estudio de las 29 carreras que componen la oferta educativa que hoy ofrece el
Colegio, y que redunde en la pertinencia de la misma.
000 Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica



52
Appendix C
Government's Comments on the ICR (in Spanish)
TERCER PROYECTO DE CAPACITACION TECNICA (CONALEP III) PRESTAMO
3358-ME
COMENTARIOS AL INFORME DE TERMINACION DEL PROYECTO PREPARADO
POR EL BANCO MUNDIAL.
El Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica desea expresar nuevamente su
agradecimiento al Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento por el apoyo que le brind6
para ejecutar el proyecto. Asimismo, quiere manifestar su reconocimiento a la labor conjunta que
ha realizado Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., con la representaci6n del Banco Mundial en M6xico
para la consecuci6n de los objetivos del proyecto.
El contenido del informe refleja objetivamente el comportamiento de los componentes,
indicadores de monitoreo, estudios y costos del proyecto, asf como los puntos que el Colegio
necesitara mejorar y fortalecer.
El Colegio concuerda con el punto de vista del Banco Mundial, en el sentido de que la
evaluaci6n de resultados del proyecto es satisfactoria por lo que hace al logro de los objetivos, el
alcance de las metas en su mayor parte y en el cumplimiento de los compromisos contraidos en
los documentos legales del prestamo.
El reporte describe apropiadamente las dos etapas que vivi6 el proyecto, teniendo como contexto
la economia del pais en 1994 -1995, asi como las dos administraciones que se responsabilizaron
de su ejecuci6n. Ambas circunstancias propiciaron la extensi6n de duraci6n del mismo, situaci6n
que comprendi6 el Banco Mundial autorizando se ampliara la fecha de cierre del proyecto.
El ICR identifica claramente las acciones que emprendi6 el organismo ejecutor para mejorar su
oferta educativa, ampliar su cobertura, impulsar la capacitaci6n de su personal docente, atender
la capacitaci6n de personas desempleadas y trabajadores en activo. El informe tambien es claro
al sefialar la necesidad de mejorar aspectos como la eficiencia terminal, seguimiento de
egresados y la recuperaci6n de costos.
Sobre estos tres ultimos puntos, el Colegio desea comentar lo siguiente: la instituci6n ha hecho y
seguira haciendo su mejor esfuerzo para controlar las variables educativas en las cuales puede
incidir para incrementar su eficiencia terminal, sin embargo hay variables extemas de contexto
econ6mico, social, familiar y de cada uno de los alumnos, sobre las cuales no tiene control y que
tambien contribuyen al incremento o decremento de la eficiencia. La encuesta a egresados mas
reciente, constituye el paso inicial para la implantaci6n de un sistema permanente de seguimiento
de egresados, sistema que sera operado directamente por los organismos puiblicos
descentralizados estatales y en los planteles, la asimilaci6n de esta herramienta por parte de
dichos organismos les permitira hacer su propia evaluaci6n de la oferta educativa regional; con la
aplicaci6n de este sistema, las areas normativas centrales contaran con los indicadores de
empleabilidad de manera confiable y oportuna para instrumentar medidas conducentes a elevar la
calidad y pertinencia de los servicios educativos que ofrece el Colegio; en cuanto a la colocaci6n



53
de egresados es un punto que se ve seriamente afectado por los puestos disponibles en el
mercado de trabajo. Aunque metodol6gicamente la recuperaci6n de costos por parte del Colegio
tiene deficiencias, tambien es cierto que tuvo un avance significativo, logrando en 1996 et
porcentaje que se estableci6 para el proyecto.
Asimismo, la Misi6n de Cierre del Proyecto que elabor6 el ICR refleja en el, la relevancia que
tienen para el Colegio, ademas de la formaci6n de profesionales tecnicos y del ofrecimiento de
servicios de capacitaci6n, los Centros de Asistencia y Servicios Tecnol6gicos como unidades de
una amplia proyecci6n e impacto en el sector productivo, asi como la trascendencia de la politica
de federalizaci6n de la instituci6n, constituyendose en un Sistema Nacional de Colegios
dedicados a impartir educaci6n profesional tecnica con un enfoque de desarrollo humano
integral, capacitaci6n laboral y servicios tecnol6gicos.
En cuanto a operaciones futuras, el Colegio espera seguir aprendiendo y construyendo el soporte
de la educaci6n y la capacitaci6n basada en normas de competencia laboral, asi.como ser uno de
los organismos beneficiarios del proyecto de entrenamiento tecnico y certificaci6n, a partir del
afno 2002.






A:h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
.       - -. -.                                                                 8 
:  t   - a                                                       . 
A! 0; 1K 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!



