AA.)
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9534-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CONALEP III)
MAY 31, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1991)
Currency Unit            -     Peso (Mex$)
US$1                           M Mex$2,945
Mex$1                    -     US$0.0003395
Mex$ million                   US$339.55
MEASURES
1 square meter (m2)            10.76 sq. ft.
1 kilometer (km)         -      0.62 miles
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Academic Year
September 1 - June 30
Acronyms
CAPFCE:     Administrative  Committee  of  the  Federal  Program  of  School
ConstructicL
(Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de Construccion de
Escuelas)
CETs:       Centers for Technological Studies
(Centro de Estudios Tecnologicos)
CONALEP:    National System for Vocational and Technical Education
(Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica)
ICB:        International Competitive Bidding
INEA:       National Institute for Adult Education
INEGI:      National Institute of Statistics and Cartography
(Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas, Geografia e Informatica)
LCB:        Local Competitive Bidding
NAFIN:      National Finance Co., Inc.
(Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NGO:        Non-Governmental Organization
PNME:       National Program for Modernization of Education
PND:        National Development 'lan
PROBECAT:   Scholarship Program tor Workers' Retraining
PRONASOL:   National Solidarity Program (Self-help program for the poor)
SEP:        Secretariat of Education
(Secretaria de Educacion Publica)
SME:        Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
SPP:        Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
STPS:       Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare
(Secretaria de Trabajo y Prevision Social)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CONALEP III)
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
1.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING NEEDS . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.  The Economy . . . ..    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  The Labor Force and the Demand
for Skilled Workers and Technicians . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
II.    THE MIDDLE-LEVEL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR  . . . . . . . . 7
A.  Overview of the Education and Training System . . . . . . . 7
B. Training by Enterprises  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9
C. National System for Vocational and Technical Education  .  10
D.  Government Strategy for Technical Training Development  .  15
E.  Previous Bank Experience and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . 17
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
III.    THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ..                . . 21
A.  Origin of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
B.  Objectives  ............  ....  ...  ....   . 21
C.  Project Components and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
IV.    PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . 31
A.  Cost of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
B.  Recurrent Cost Implications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
C.  Project Financing and Disbursement Plan  .  . . . . . . . . 33
D.  Implementation, Procurement and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . 35
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .....  .  ..  .    ........   . 38
V.     BENEFLTS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mexico
in March 1991.  The mission was composed of Messrs. Wesley Hobbs (Technical
Education Planner, Mission Leader), Jose Dominguez-Urosa (Economist), Jorge
Quintero (Implementation Specialist) and Eutiquio Elizondo (Instructor Training
Specialist). Messrs. Kye Woo Lee (Division Chief, LA2HR), George Psacharopoulos
(Division Chief, LATHR), Gary Fields (Economist) and David Warren (Operations
Assistant) also participated in the mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



il
TAPLES
Table 1.1.  Labor Force . . . . . . . . . . . .  .       .  ... .  3
Table 1.2.  Labor Force - Skilled W'orkers and Technicians    .  .  .  4
Table 2.1.  Middle Level Education 1989/1990   .      .  .    .  .    .  .    . 8
Table 3.1.  Improving Training Cost Recovery/Cost Sharing
During 1991-96  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .       . . . 28
Table 4.1.  Proje,ct Cost Summary  . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . .31
Table 4.2.  Unit .ost and Space Comparisons . . . . . . . .  ..         . 32
Table 4.3.  Epected Price Increases During Implementation . . . . . . 33
Table 4.4.  Implementation Schedule .  .  .      . . . .    . . . . . . 36
Table 4.5.  Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . .       . . . 37
Table 5.1.  Regional Distribution of CONALEP Training Centers
and Projocted Enrollments .                             . ..  40
Table 5.2.  Projected Annual Enrollments and Outputs
by Major Fields of Study and Type of Programs . . . . . . 41
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Structure of Education and Training System (1989-90)
Annex 2:    The CONALEP Technical Training Program
Attachment A: Employment and Earnings
Attachment B: Organization Charts at Central and
Local Levels
Annex 3:    Special Studies and Basic Terms of Reference
Annnex 4:    CONALEP's Strategy for Improving Cost Recover/Cost Sharing of
Training Programs
Attachment: CONALEP's Cost Recovery and Cost Reduction
Activities (1984-90)
Annex 5:    Project Costing
Annex 5.1:  P-oject Costs by Components and Activity
Annex 5.2:  Project Cost Estimates by Years and Category of Expenditure
Annex 5.3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 5.4:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6:    Project Implementation
Annex 6.1:  Technical Assistance Schedule
Annex 6.2:  Criteria for Targeting Schools and Programs for Assistance
Under the Project
Annex 6.3:  Civil Works and Mobile Training Units Schedule
Annex 6.4:  Physical Space Factors for Design of Civil Works
Annex 6.5:  Furniture, Equipment and Educational Materials Procurement
Schedule
Annex 7:    Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 8:    Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
Key to Ma,
MA: IBRD No. 23052 - MEXICO: Third Technical Training Project



iii
URITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowert          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Beneficiary:       National  System  for  Vocational  and  Technical  Education
(CONALEP)
Amognts            US$152.0 million equivalent
Trms:              17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Proiect            The overall objective of the project is to carry out the
Objectives:       modernization of the system; in particular, to further improve
the quality, efficiency and relevance of the CONALEP system.
The specific project obje3tives are to: (a) uniformly upgrade
the quality of high level skills training and middle level
technician training to contribute to meeting the rapidly
changing needs of the labor market; (b) selectively expand the
range  of  CONALEP's  training  activities  in  key  sectors,
especially in-.service upgrading training on a cost-recovery
basis, and initiate a modular program in the evening to
enhance skill levels of experienced and employed workers, in
addition to the current emphasis or. pre-service training; and
(c) strengthen the administration of CONALEP, increase
efficiency and improve cost reduction/recovery plans.
Systematic improvements, as well as targeting and expansion of
progrems under the project, will be based on ongoing analysis
and planned studies concerning the quality, efficiency and
impacts of CONALEP's programs.
Prolect            The proposed project would achieve the above objectives
Descriytiont       through the implementation of three components.
(a) Quality Improvements (51% of total costs) would include:
(i) review and upgrading of all instructional materials and
course syllabi to meet current levels of technology in 97
careers for pre-service training and 84 careers for in-service
training; (ii) decentralization/upgrading of instructor
training programs; and (iii) a technological services program,
which would provide support to other CONALEP centers as well
as to micro, small and medium enterprises, and contribute to
the enhancement of teacher training quality, advanced
technology pre-service training, and high level in-service
training in eight selected centers.
(b) Expansion of Trainina Activities (31% of total costs)
would support, on the basis of a series of on-going and
planned studies and assistance of specialists and community
leaders:   (i) training in response to demands  from the
maquiladora industry and the tourism sector; (ii) the
Initiation of a modular program in the evening and short-term



ill
upradi"6 courses for employed workers; (iii) mcbile training
for marginal populations; and (*v) other minor but strategic
actions such as food production and pond fish farming, joint
school and in-plant cooperative technician training programs,
and  self--help  training  programs  linked  to  productive
activities.
(c) Increasing Efficiency (18% of total costs) would
strengthen the administration of CONALEP, increase efficiency
and improve cost reduction/recovery plans through the
following  activities:    (i)  provision  of  the  equipment
production and maintenance services programs to all training
centers and establishment of regional maintenance centers on
eight existing training center complexes for the repair of
major  items  and  advanced  technology  equipment;   (ii)
development of a communications network, with computer modem
and telefax connections throughout CONALEP's national system;
(iii)  strengthening  CONALEP's  cost  accounting/recovery
systems; and (iv) carrying out studies on improving the
efficiency of student flows and graduate placement, and
preparing an action plan for implementation.
Proiect            The project would:  (a) produce skilled manpower and small
Benefits:          business services required for the restructured economy to
sustain and strengthen growth, with particular emphasis on
flexibility in response to the labor market needs in growth
sectors, and in disadvantaged areas and populations; when the
project iF fully implemented in 1996-97, the expected annual
output fr-n all programs combined is projected to be some
180,000 rainees; (b) improve the quality of all instruction
to meet the rapidly changing levels of technology in the
workplaLe; (c) make CONALEP's training more efficient and
ensure its operational and financial sustainability through
expanded cooperative training links with enterprises and more
diversified fin-e~ing mechanisms; and (d) contribute to the
development, in the medium term, of a more rational and
efficient education and training system in Mexico.
Riskss             There are no unusual risks associated with the project, except
that, with regard to mobile training for marginal populations
and the food production and pond fish farming training
programs; there is a potential risk that the ultimate benefits
to the targeted marginal rural populations could be minimal
due to technical, credit, and marketing risks despite
Government assurances that these training programs would be
supported by the planned production credit through PRONASOL,
marketing and training specialists. As to the risk of reduced
federal financial support for CONALEP in case of new budgetary
crisis, such risk would be minimized through early steps to
broaden CONALEP's resources mobilization base by setting
targets for cost recovery and strengthening CONALEP's
relationship with the industrial and business community. The
project is unlikely to have significant environmental impacts.



v
Estimated                                          Local   Foreign   Total
Cost:    *   Categorv                                   (US$ million)-
Quality Improvements                 32.7    53.4       86.1
Expansion of Programs                20.0    32.6       52.6
Increasing Efficiency                11.4    18.5       29.9
Project Base Cost                    64.1   104.5    168.6
Physical Contingencies                3.2      5.2       8.4
Price Contingencies                  10.4    17.1       27.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   77.7   126.8    204.5
Costs excluded in-kind contributions and identifiable
taxes and duties.
Financing                                     Local    Foreign    Total
Plan:                                         ------(US$ million)------
Government             52.5          -       52.5
Bank                   25.2      126.8      152.0
TOTAL                  77.7      126.8      204.5



vi
Estimated
Diabursements:
Bank FY                    FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97
----------- (USS  million) --
Annual                     22.3L*  32.3   32.1   29.8   24.6   10.9
Cumulative                 22.3   54.6   86.7  116.5  141.1  152.0
> Includes US$10.0 million for the initial deposit to the Special Account to
cover retroactive financing of US$8.0 million equivalent for el4gible
expenditures incurred since January 20, 1991.



UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
" ECONOMIC DEVELOP1MENT AND TRAINING NEEDS
A.          The E"onomv
1.1.        Mexico is making significant progress in emerging from its worst
economic and financial crisis of the last 50 years. A drop in world oil
prices in the early 1980s and again in 1986 had a disastrous impact on an
economy that was high,, dependent on petroleum exports for foreign exchange.
As a consequence, the economy fell into a deep depression and was further
Durdene4 by a huge foreign debt. Growth stopped, capital investments came to
a virtual halt, and inflation spiraled drastically upward reducing purchasing
pover and the standard of living. Under those circumstances, the Mexican
Government ended the decade of the 1980s by taking major initiatives aimed at
achieving stabilization and structural transformation of its economy. The
economic strategy includes significant actions to reduce the burden of debt
obligations and other actions to globalize the economy and introduce greater
efficiencies in public sector spending. While the economic corrections were
painful, the Government prevailed. In December 1987 the anti-inflation
efforts were reinforced by the Government coordinated "Economic Solidarity
Pact", an agreement between the public, private and labor sectors aimed at
dramatically reducing the country's inflation rate. The pact included a
public sector commitment to implement orthodox fiscal management measures to
eliminate inflationary financing, while the private and labor sectors would
participate in negotiations and arrive at a consensus to curtail demands for
wage and price hikes. The three sectors agreed to work together to minimize
the recessionary elements and shortages that often accompany such programs.
The result was that inflation dropped from an annual rate of nearly 160X in
early 1988 to 29.92 by the end of 1990. Notwithstanding tight monetary and
fiscal policies, output began to improve after 1987. Real GDP grew by 1.41
during 1988; 3.12 in 1989; and 3.91 for 1990.1 Industrial production has
recorded particuiarly strong growth. It rose 72 in real terms during 1989
with the country's export-oriented maquiladora industry providing a 23Z
employment increase and a 38.42 increase in value added in Mexico. In real
terms consumption grew to 4.72 in 1989, compared to -0.52 in 1987, while in
1990 a growth of 3.02 was expected. Programs carried out by the Government of
Mexico have also produced increases in fixed investment. Gross fixed
investment has also increased steadily in recent years. Labor productivity
increased by 8.4% in 1987 and 9.32 in 1988.
1.2.        The Government's strategy as outlined in the 1989-1994 National
Development Plan has three fundamental objectives: (a) stability of domestic
conditions to improve quality of life and strengthen the economic base; (b)
globalization of co-merce to stimulate market development and competition; and
(c) deregulation of private sector initiatives and activity to create an
environment highly favorable to capital investment and growth. The Plan calls
for continued efforts to increase the annual economic growth rate to about 6Z
X Data sources: Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP).



2
by the end of the period. Also, it is expected to reach an annual inflation
rate of 22% for 1994, as well as an investment growth rate of 9.7% in 1994
(compared to 7.8Z in 1990).
1.3.        Mexico's medlum term prospects for consolidation of economic
growth are good, provided that economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains reasonably favorable. In epite of the progress made thus far, there
are still problems that must be overcome. Industrial development and foreign
trade are impeded by insufficient and inadequate infrastrt?cture.  In addition,
while trade liberalization has brought production efficiencies in certain
sectors, inadequacies in equipment and produc_ive processes still inhibit
significant improvements in many enterprises. In particular, medium, smell
and micro-industries face special problems adversely affecting production
efficiency. Frequently, inappropriate levels of technology and qualified
labor result in makeshift pror'esses that reduce their productivity. In
general, these firms suffer trom inadequate organizational and administrative
skills and limited competitive power.
B.          The Labor Force and the Demand for Skilled Workers and Technicans
1.4.        While the total labor force has grown significantly (from about
7.9 million in 1950 to about 31.5 million in 1990), the proportion of workers
in the primary sector declined steeply from 62% in 1950 to about 20Z in 1990.
At the same time, the shares of workers in manufacturing (secondary sector)
and in services (tertiary sector) have increased significantly, reaulting in
an eightfold growth in the labor force in those sectors over the last 40 years
(Table 1.1).



3
Table 1.1 Mexico - Labor Force
Diatribution of Labor Force   Labor Force
Total      Labor             by Economic Sector     Participation
Consuu Year   Population    Force    Primary   Secondary  Tertiary      Rate
(in Milliono)         (in millions, followed by        (S)
percentages)
1950 (a)        27.40      7.94       4.95      1.         1.77         28.98
(100.00)   (62.34)    (15.7.,   (22.29)
1960 (a)        37.10     10.80       6.02       1.87      2.92          29.11
(100.00)   (55.74)    (17.31)   (27.04)
1970 (b)        51.20     14.70       6.22       3. 19     5.29          28.71
(100.00)   (42.31)    (21.70)   (35.99)
1980 (b)        66.84     20.40       5.61       4.88      9.91          30.52
(100.00)    (27.50)    (23.92)   (48.58)
1990 (c)        81.14     31.47       6.46       6.68      18.33         38.78
(100.00)   (20.53)    (21.23)   (58.25)
Note:  Figures may not add due to rounding
(a)    From census data, reported by Munoz Izquierdo.
(b)    Staff adjustments from census data, made in cooperation with INEGI and the Directorate
General of Employment. Labor force follows 1970 census data definitions.
(c)    Preliminary 1990 census data.  Labor force count includes 12-15 years old (about 2.5x),
excluded from previous definitions.
1.5.          The labor force growth trend responds to two important factors:
(a) the population growth pattern two decades earlier, which also recorded the
highest growth rate (3.3%); and (b) the tendency to increase participation of
women in the labor force. There may also he other factors such as a recent
openness leading to resurfacing of the "submerged" economy. The resulting net
annual increase in the labor force is about 1.1 million per year, while the
gross estimate is more than 1.5 million entrants when retirement, deaths and
other attrition rates are included. The relative weight of middle level
technicians and skilled workers has continued to increase, as is expected in
an economy that is becoming more productive and sophisticated; the ratio of
10.5 per hundred workers in 1990 might be understated, in relative terms to
the previous decades, because of the broader base used in the 1990 definition
of the labor force (Table 1.1).
1.6.          Table 1.2 shows that between 1970 and 1980 the proportion of
skilled workers and technicians in the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors
increased with time; the average proportion of skilled workers and technicians
for the three sectors rose from about 85 per thousand in 1970 to about 101 per
thousand in 1980. An average of about 106 was estimated at the end of 1990.
Also, an increasingly higher concentration of skills in the occupational



4
profile of the secondary and tertiary sectors is observed, and this trend is
expectad to continue.
table 1.2 Mexico - Labor Force
SkilleJ Workers aad Technicians (SW & T)
Distribution of SW & T by
Overall         Economic Sector
.bor    Selected    SW & T
Year       Force      SW & T     Rate    PrimarY  Secondary  Tertia_
(W.llions)  (Millions)    (X)     (in thousands, followed by
percentages)
1970        14.70        1.25      8.49    96.41    699.89    451.77
(100.00)            (7.?2)    (56.08)   (36.20)
1980        20.40        2.06     10.10   88.64   1,092.63    879.02
(100.00)            (4.30)    (53.03)   (42.66)
1990        31.47       3.35      10.64   104.01   1,519.03  1,726.69
(100.00)            (3.11)    (45.35)   (51.55)
1.7.        Mexico has improved the quality of its labor force immensely.  For
instance, the average educational level of the population 15 years and older
in 1970 was only 3.4 years of schooling. Today, it has almost doubled to an
average of 6.4 years of education. 2 Considering the large numbers involved--
total enrollments in education exceed 25 million people annually--this is
quite an achievement. Yet, especially in view of continuing growth in the
secondary and tertiary sectors and increasing needs for skilled manpower,
important issues remain to be addressed.  Although primary level education now
covers nearly all children in relevant age groups, the quality of primairy as
well as higher levels of education needs to be improved. Furthermore,
inadequate levels of productivity in the current labor fores point to needs
for improvements in quality and output of pre-service, in-service and
retraining programs.
1.8.        Assuming that the profile of school leavers would be similar to
the profile of new entrants to the labor force, an analysis of the 1978-91
cohort confirms the above findingd. The average educational level of incomers
is 6.6 school-years. However, based on the educational profile of the new
entrants, there is a need for accentuation of occapational training programs,
both for pre-service and in-service training.
1.9.        As many as 58Z of newcomers to the labor force have only primary
(11%) or less than primary education (47Z), which, in a modern society like
Mexico, hinders the development of an industrial and more productive
2 Salinas de Gortari, Carlos. Segundo Informe de Gobierno. 1990. Anexo.
Mex: Poder Ejecutivo Federal, 1990. p. 354.



5
economy.3  Workers in this group need to acquire more general education and
some technical skills in order to become more productive; and those with
narrow bases of (often obsolete) skills need to be retrained in a broad range
of skills.
1.10.       About 23Z of tte new entrants (at least 306,000 people) have some
lower or upper secorndary general education. This is a group with a sound
educational base but lacking technical skills. Thus, they are natural
candidates for pre-service and in-service training. Unemployment rates are
higher among these secon.;ary school dropouts and graduates (30X-45x).
1.11.       Problems with the third group--middle level technicians and
skilled workers--are both quantitative and qualitative. The 1990 Census
(Table 1.2), after excluding all professionals and high level technicians,
lists more than three miilion workers (about 10.52) in the category of skilled
workers and technicians. Yet only about 3.5S of the 1978 cohort (130,000
young adults) were equipped with the education and productive skills required
to work as middle level technicians and skilled workers. Furthermore, only
about 25,000 of these were three-year graduates from terminal technical
secondary schools like CONALEP (para. 2.10) and thus could be described as
truly well prepared. These numbers of middle level technicans and skilled
workers are barely sufficient to meet the needs resulting from attrition of
the current stock of technicians, let alone compensate for the past deficits
of skilled workers and technicians. Moreover, the quality of skills and
levels of productivity of workers in this category are much lower than those
of their counterparts in advanced countries: foreign investors in the
maquiladora industry have complained that productivity of workers in plants in
the northern border territory is half that of workers in similarly equipped
facilities just north of the border. Output and quality improvements in the
existing training programs and additional upgrading programs are needed to
augment the supply of solid middle level technicians.
1.12.       Considering the economic deregulation measures taken during the
present administration, and the possibility of a Free Trade Agreement with the
United States of America and Canada, the current shortage of skilled workers
and technicians could have serious economic consequences if left unremedied.
Under the present circumstances, it would be difficult for industries to
attain a sufficiently high level of productivity in order to compete
successfully in the international markets. Also, productivity in the
agricultural sector will need to be increased in the years to come; this will
not be possible unless there is a substantial upgrading of its labor force
and, among other things, appropriate access to production credit. In the
health, tourism, telecommunications and transportation sectors, where Mexico
3 Further improvements in the quality and efficiency of basic education
would certainly contribute to an amelioration of this situation. Indeed, other
poverty problems, including unemployment and underemployment, marginalization,
reliance on the informal sector, and the tendency toward early procreation, also
have roots in the lack of basic education among this large part of the
population. In this context, the Bank is in the final stages of preparation for
projects in pre-primary and primary education.



6
has some comparative advantages, further development also depends on an
adequate supply of well trained workers and skilled technicians in order to
improve tha quality of services they provide. Thus, reducing the shortage of
skilled workers and technicians, and improving their quality, is vital to
economic growth and development. In this regard it is important to note that
only a relatively few of the business, industrial and agricultural enterprises
can afford the costs of train.rLg the levels of skilled manpower necessary to
become competitive in international/local markets, especially when their major
competitors are in developed countries where the majority of technician and
skilled worker preemployment training is done by the public education system.



7
It. THE MIDDLE-LEVEL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.          Overview of the Education and Training System
2.1.        she education and training system consists of pre-primary,
primary, middle and higher levels. Enrollments at the pre-primary and primary
levels cover about 70% and 98Z of the corresponding school age groups,
respectively. Middle level education comprises lower- and upper-middle
levels. At the lower-middle level (grades 7-9), first year entrants in the
sct ool year 1989/1990 constituted 83Z of all graduates from the primary level
in 1989. Enrollments at this level were 4.3 million (57% of the age group) in
1989, with 70% of them attending federal schools, 22% state schools and 8%
nrivate schools.
2't.        The upper-middle level (grades 10-12) provides the link between
love.--iddle and higher education, as well as with the labor force. This
leval .omprises four major types of education and training institutions:
academic, teacher training, dual purpose technical, and terminal technical.
Durl.ng the 1989/1990 school year, the total enrollment at this level was about
2.1 million students, with 60% of them attending the traditional general
education system, 212 the dual purpose technical education system
(Bachillerato Tecnico--graduates can proceed to higher education or enter the
labor force), and 19% the terminal technical education system (without further
formal education, graduates are not eligible to proceed to higher education
and thus must enter the labor force). Each of the above categories includes
several streams or types of schools, depending on the sector served (industry,
fisheries, agriculture, etc.) and on the administrative jurisdiction (federal,
state, private).
2.3.        The seemingly high degree of differentiation at the upper-middle
level of public education and training does not represent a wide choice of
alternatives. Instead, it manifests the historical difficulties of solving
the problem of training sufficient numbers of high quality skilled workers and
middle level technicians. For example, the dual purpose technical schools
constituted a first attempt to train skilled workers by providing a practical
ou'tlet to the labor force. However, they have not been effective in this
respect, with only about 25% of the 1989-90 output obtaining gainful
employment (Table 2.1). In fact, this category of education differs only
slightly from the traditional general secondary education. Since 1969, the
Secretariat of Education has attempted to direct sufficient numbers of trained
students into the labor force through the Centers for Technological Studies
(CETS), one type of terminal technical schools; yet it is estimated that only
about 52% of their graduates were employed within three months of graduation
in 1990 due mainly to the poor quality of training. With the establishment of
CONALEP in 1978, another type of terminal technical school, the employment
rate for CONALEP trainees improved further (62% in 1990).



8
TABLE 2.12 MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION 1989/1990
GRADUATES
NO. OF         TOTAL         1989/1990          EMPLOYED IN
SCHOOLS      ENROLLENMTS     GRADUATES         THREE MONTHS
(THOUSANDS)    (THOUSANDS)     (THOUSANDS)  (2)
DACHILLERATO TECNICO       784           383.2            82.4            20.6    25
tRgMNAL TECHNICALs
CETS8 AND OTHERS (a)   1,401            262.1           72.9            37.9   52
CONALEPS
REGULAR PROGRAM (b)    252            155.3           33.2            20.7    62)
UPGRADING/RETRAINING                                                            M(e)
PROGRAM       -             61.3           61.3(c)         50.9(d) 831
TOTAL              2,437           861.9           249.9           130.1
SOURCE: CONALEP COMPARATIVE DATA
(a)   CENTERS FOR TECHNOLOGICAL STUDIES (CETS); THE NATIONAL SCHOOL FOR TEACHERS OF AGRICULTURAL
SUBJECTSg AND THE NATIONAL SCHOOL FOR TEACHERS OF AGRICULTURAL/LIVESTOCK TECHNOLOGY.
(b)   CONALEP'S ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS OF THE REGULAR PROGRAMS IN THE 252 SCHOOLS IN SEPTEMBER 1989
AND JUNE 1990 RESPECTIVELY.
(c)   OF WHICH ABOUT 801 WERE ALREADY IN THE SKILLED WORKPORCE.
Sd)   NUMBER OF NEW ENTRIES TO SKILLED WORKFORCE.
(a)   WEIGHTED AVERAGE OF ABOUr 78Z FOR BOTH PROGRAMS.
2.4.         In spite of the high level of success achieved in CONALEP's program and
its contribution to the improvement of upper-middle level technical training, the
terminal technical training subsector as a whole is still unable to satisfy the
annual demand for skilled workers and technicians. If the country's economic and
social development needs for the 19909 are to be attained, and its growth potential
fully utilized, the Government, with substantial assistance of public and private
enterprises and business-industrial-agricuitural associations, must promptly address
the qualitative and quantitative inadequacies of technical education and training at
the upper-middle level.
2.5.         Higher education (grades 13-17) received about 58% of the graduates from
the upper-middle level schools. Higher education includes several private and
public universities of high quality. Enrollments in science and technological
subjects, including medical, account for about 60% of all the students at this
level.
2.6.         The Mexican Government has traditionally made a reasonable effort in
financing education. Although the recent crisis affected education more than other
sectors, it also allowed the Government to shift funds toward high priority areas
such as the improvement and expansion of upper-middle terminal training. In 1989,
total expenditures on education and training amounted to about 4.4% of GDP. While
the overall share of GDP allocated for general education has decreased significantly
since 1982, funding for terminal technical training has been increased.



9
B.          Training by Enterprises
2.7.        In Mexico, explicit provisions in the Federal Labor Law make employers
responsible for the training of their employees. All firms are required to
establish training committees and submit training plans for their personnel for
approval by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS). In practice, only
about half of firms actually submit such plans, and most of those who do never carry
out much actual training. Private provision of pre-employment training is very
limited in quantity. In qualitative terms, it is generally geared to the levels of
specialized/semi-skilled/skilled workers rather than to the technician level. Cost-
effective basic training of industrial technicians includes much technical/
scientific content, and thus requires a high initial investment. This is a barrier
to entry for most proprietary traini'g institutions, which prefer therefore to
concentrate on less capital-intensive business and administrative training.  For
individual industries, the risk involved in operating in-house tcaining programs of
long duration (in terms of high costs and delays in producing the needed
technicians, who may then move to other employers), and the difficulty in most cases
of achieving adequate economies of scale in such training (especially among micro,
small, and medium-sized industries, which are the main sources of employment in
Mexico), deter even large firms from mounting their own basic technician training
programs. Therefore, as in virtually all other countries including the most
induetrialized, Mexican firms instead focus their in-house training on firm-specific
and specialized topping-up training and rely for basic training on pre-employment
technician training provided by public training institutions.
2.8.        In the absence in Mexico of a payroll tax and fiscal incentives (e.g.
deduction of in-plant training costs from taxable income of enterprises), unlike in
many other countries in Latin America, to finance training, larger firms are instead
prepared to sponsor individual trainees and contribute equipment and materials to
share the costs of such public training institutions. While some sectors and firms
do provide substantial training (for instance, the construction industry as well as
some large industries--Kodak, Volkswagen and a few large maquiladoras--have in-house
training centers which provide substantial basic training of skilled, semi-skilled,
and specialized workers, as well as firm-specific training and upgrading of
personnel at all levels including that of technicians), small- and medium-scale
firms, which number about 450,000 and employ a very high percentage of the total
labor force, to the extent that they provide any in-service training at all for
their employees, rely mostly on contracting for specific training courses with
public training institutions such as CONALEP, with a few NGOs which operate
vocational schools for lower level skills, or with private providers (mainly for
management training). Only a few associations of SMEs have developed joint training
programs; for instance, a car dealer association in Mexico City operates a good but
small auto repair training center. In all cases described, the in-plant training
provided at technician level is only a complement to the basic training provided by
public training institutions; overall systematic training within enterprises is at
an early stage of development.
2.9.        The situation in Mexico in this regard is a matter of grave concern to
the Government; it is being systematically addressed for the first time through the
in-service training component of the ongoing, Bank-assisted Manpower Training
Project (Loan 2876-ME). However, Mexico is not the only country to have these
problems; a recent survey by the Confederation of British Industries showed that



10
less than one-third of British firms had any training program whatsoever for their
personnel; and less than 10 percent had a comprehensive staff training plan. Such
experiences demonstrate the difficulty of inducing most enterprises to take an
active role in training and the need for the public sector to devise policies and
plans for providing the private sector with incentives for in-plant training. This
project supports the Government's initiative to promote training by enterprises.
C.          National System for Vocational and Technical Education (CONALEP)
2.10.       Background.  In late 1978, to reform and rationalize technical secondary
ee-ication and train high quality skilled workers and middle level technicians in
aa,xquate quantity, the Governnment created CONALEP, a semi-autonomous agency linked
to the Secretariat of Education, with the responsibility of administering new
terminal technician training programs at the upper-middle education level. Since
the creation of CONALEP, the terminal technical training program (grades 10-12)
seems to be moving in the right direction and, with the Bank's assistance to CONALEP
under two previous loans (Loans 2042-ME and 2559-ME), it has entered a period of
moderate development which still continues. With a network of 252 training centers
across the country, CONALEP's regular pre-service training program in 97 career
areas accounts for one third of total enrollments (419,000) of the terminal
technical training system and more than two thirds of to al output of terminal
technical secondary schools (105,000) (Table 2.1). In addition, CONALEP trains
adults who are already employed (9000 in 1989 with an increase to 23,000 in 1991) or
who have had work experience but are currently unemployed (59,000 in 1989 or 28% of
total enrollment, but was reduced to about 10% in 1991). All these upgrading and
retraining programs in some 80 career areas are offered under training contracts
with private sector enterprises, public corporations, or Government agencies on a
cost-recovery basis. Its training contracts include the labor retraining programs
of the Bank-financed Manpower Training Project of the Secretariat of Labor (Loan
2876-ME) and Basic Health Care Project (Loan 3272-ME) of the Secretariat of Health.
CONALEP is the major training contractor and the backbone of Mexico's skills
training structure. For example, CONALEP's training contracts account for about 50%
of the labor retraining programs managed by the Secretariat of Labor; the remainder
is contracted with some 400 other training centers.
2.11.       The CONALEP program differs from other middle level technical training
4
programs in the following ways:
a)    its partial autonomy facilitates responsiveness to the changing needs of
the productive sectors, and encourages their participation; its Board
of Governors is comprised of seven business and industrial leaders
serving staggered terms;
b)    its administration is decentralized so that operational decisions,
including curriculum adaptation, are delegated to local training
authorities, industrial advisory boards are established in each center
to advise on course content matters, and each center and most states
have a special committee (Comit6 de Vinculaci6n) to advise and assist in
4 Annex 2 presents a detailed description of the CONALEP training system.



11
setting priorities for training to be offered by CONALEP and increasing
the role of the private and public productive sector in training;
c)    its curriculum has a practical orientation (201 general theory, 20%
technical theory, and 60S technical practice) and strong emphasis on
evaluation, "hands-on" experience, follow-up and feedback;
d)    its training programs, both regular and part-time, are strictly terminal
(not for progression to higher education) and are job market oriented;
e)    its unique promotional activities successfully enhance the program's
public image, enabling it to attract qualified students and,
increasingly, to obtain significant financial support from the
productive sectors; such support amounted to about US$12.9 million in
1990 or about 13.6Z of recurrent costs;
f)    its students pay a tuition relatively higher than that of other segments
of the educational system (about 10% of the training costs); and
g)    its technical instructors are seconded from industry with adequate
remunerations, teach part-time (typically 12-14 hours/week), and cannot
belong to the Teachers' Union; this tends to prevent management-labor
problems because CONALEP is not the instructors' primary employer.
2.12.       Effectiveness of the CONJLEP Training System.  An evaluation of
CONALEP's effectiveness comprises the analysis of four aspects: (a) employment and
earnings of graduates; (b) capital and recurrrent unit costs; (c) adequacy of
economies of scale; and (d) internal efficiency.
a)    Emplovment and Earnings
i)    According to the results (1990) of the Graduate Tracer Studies
(Encuesta de Seguimiento) initiated under the Bank-financed Second
Technical Training Project (Loan 2559-ME, 1985), about 621 of the
graduates of CONALEP's three-year pre-service training program
found paid employment within three months of completion of the
training program (Annex 2, Attachment A). Furthermore, about 84Z
of them are employed in their area of training specialization.
There is room for improvement, but this compares favorably with
the 25% employment rate among the graduates of the dual purpose
upper-secondary technical education system (Table 2.1), and with
the record of more advanced countries. CONALEP will have to place
more emphasis on the selection and induction of trainees, the
enhancement of training program quality, adjustments in the
program offering, and counseling and placement of graduates.
ii)   Also according to the results (1990) of the Graduate Tracer
Studies, CONALEP graduates earned an average of about US$2,282
(Mex$6.7 million) per year. The four year period for which there
is informatlon (1987-90) has shown a trend of steady growth in
real terms of the entry level wage from the initial 1501 of
minimum wage to the present level of 166% (Annex 2, Attachment A).



12
On a national basis, the National Urban Employment Survey
(Encuesta Nacional de Empleo Urbano [ENEU], Third Quarter of 1989)
further confirmed that "technicians", including CONALEP's
graduates, have higher average earnings than those with other
types of upper secondary education (Bachillerato) and lower
secondary education. In addition, according to ENEU, unemployment
among secondary school dropouts and graduates is 45%.
iii)  The Graduate Tracer Studies currently in use do not provide
information about stability in employment for CONALEP's graduates
beyond the initial three months following graduation; an
assessment of employer satisfaction, though, can serve to a
certain extent as a proxy. According to the 1990 survey, about
92Z of the employers, representing nine different economic
sectors, who have hired CONALEP graduates expressed consistently
over the four year period that the training of these employees was
"good" or "excellent"; dissatisfied employers were less than 1%.
Since employers tend not to dismiss workers with whom they are
satisfied, it is very probable that those workers hired are
retained beyond the initial three months. Moreover, based on the
fact that most employers were satisfied with the training of
CONALEP graduates, it is also quite likely that such employers
hire additional graduates, beyond the 622 mentioned in (i) above,
after the first three months.
iv)   The Graduate Tracer Studies provide no information about salary
levels or changes in the employment conditions resulting from the
variety of shorter courses (in-service programs) that CONALEP
offers. However, there are separate studies and estimates on
their levels of employment and earnings after training. The Mid-
Term Review Report and a special Bank follow-up study (1991) of
the impact of the Bank-financed Manpower Training Project (Loan
2876-ME) confirms that some 77% of unemployed workers who had some
prior work experience and were retrained under the project
obtained employment within three months of completion of
training;5 the proportion of those employed graduates whose
earnings became higher than the minimum wage rose from 26% before
training to about 40% after 3 months of training, and further to
50% after 6 months of training. CONALEP's overall placement
performance, including the retraining of those unemployed before
the course, is estimated at about 78Z (weighted average for all
the courses) (Annex 2, Attachment A).
5 The employment rate is much smaller (44%) for those trainees who have had
no prior work experience (i.e., who were not the intended target groups of the
training programs). This group comprises 33% of total trainees.



13
b)    Unit Costs
i)    In 1990, total direct cost per CONALEP trainee was about US$500
(Mex$1.3 million in constant pesos of 1988). This figure includes
all direct annual operational expenditures, including cash
contributions made by the productive sector. This total unit cost
(TUC) also includes capital costs, which were calculated using the
standard (straight line) amortization method (useful life: 10
years for equipment and 20 years for buildings; 0 salvage value
for both). The number of trainees were calculated into a full-
time trainee equivalent (of about 1400 hours/year). Total unit
cost per physical person, which is lower, was also computed (about
US$400/year, or less than Mex$1 million).
ii)   The above-mentioned TUCs compare very favorably with those of
general and technical upper secondary education systems (Mex$1.2
million and Mex$1.8 million, respectively, on a per student basis
in 19886). This economical unit cost is one of the major
strengths of the CONALEP training oystem; in many other countries,
the unit cost of the conventional technical secondary education
system is often twice that of general secondary education, or
higher. The major factor for this economical unit cost is that
most CONALEP instructors have been released by the private sector
for teaching at CONALEP centers, and CONALEP pays them only fees
on an hourly basis.
iii) While graduate income shows a steady increase over the last four
years, unit costs show a decreasing trend over a 10 year period.
Since 1987, total unit costs per full time student equivalent have
stabilized at the current level of about Mex$1.3 million in
constant pesos of 1988.
c)    Adequacv of Economies of Scale
i)    The statistical analysis of unit costs per center showed that
about 57 of 252 centers had a per-student admiaistrative unit cost
that exceeded the average plus one full standard deviation of the
system. In practical terms, this means that about 9% of the total
enrollment accounts for more than 20% of administrative
expenditures--i.e., potential inefficiencies exceeding Mex$2
million/year per student were disguised within the excellent
overall unit cost of the system.
ii)   Further, CONALEP undertook a study of operational expenditures by
center, on a full-time student equivalent basis, since some
centers may already have reduced their high unit costs by
expanding significantly the training programs. This second round
of analysis reduced the number of high-cost centers from 57 to
6 The World Bank, Basic Education in Mexico, Sector Report No. 8930-ME,
August 1990.



14
about 43, but with 7 having a per-student unit cost of 2.5 times
the average. CONALEP will have to focus on these centers to
improve economies of scale, because these centers typically hold
enrollments of less than 200 regular trainees.
d)    Internal Efficiency
i)    The improvement of internal efficiency in the CONALEP system has
proven to be as difficult an issue as for the rest of the
educational system. The cumpletion rate for the student cohort
graduating in 1990 was 52X. This percentage is about the same as
the one for the academic general secondary education system.
During 1990, the completion rate (i.e., the percentage of the
cohort that completed the programs among those who started the
program) at the dual purpose technical education system was 57%;
and for the other terminal technical schools, 401. While student-
flow performance is less than what would be desired, it represents
a significant increase over the level ten years ago, which was
estimated at about 31% for middle-level technical education. A
main problem has been clearly located at the end of the first
semester, when about 40% of the initial enrollment drops out,
mostly to switch back to the academic stream.
2.13.       In summary, the cost effectiveness of CONALEP programs is satisfactory
as measured by its unit costs, on the input side, and by the placement and earnings
of its graduates, on the output side. Hidden within this good record, however, is
the fact that about 20% of CONALEP's centers have excessively high unit costs, a
situation requiring corrective measures. While CONALEP's internal efficiency is
only fair, this deficiency is not an exclusive characteristic of the system; it is
deeply rooted in the cultural attitudes of Mexicans, and is similar to levels in
comparable Mexican institutions, as well as in other developing countries. CONALEP
has agreed to take robust measures under the current project. A specific timetable
for diagnosis of the problems and policy changes to bring about a significant
improvement would be established under the project.
2.14.       Based on the above analysis, CONALEP's performance compares well with
other training institutions both internationally and in Mexico; nonetheless, a
complete assessment of its economic efficiency requires comparison of earnings and
employment histories of those with training and those without training after three
months and again after one year from graduation. Except for the small percentage of
trainees of the retraining programs under the Manpower Training Project, an
appropriate control group for CONALEP graduates (pre-service and in-service training
programs) is not currently available. Such an analysis would be undertaken in the
context of this project, and would be available in time for a mid-term review of the
project (para. 4.22).
2.15.       Although CONALEP's level of administrative efficiency, cost-recovery
mechanisms and training effectiveness has improved markedly in comparison with the
other middle level education and training systems in Mexico (para. 2.11) there are
particular aspects that require substantial improvements. First, better management
and faster communication systems are necessary in order to monitor effectively and
faster the outcomes of policy improvements, manage day-to-day administration of over



15
250 training centeru across the country, maintain adequate information of the
overall response to cost-recovery initiatives and decentralize maintenance for
complex equipment and other support programs. In particular, CONALEP needs to
establish a satisfactory cost accounting system to show the effectiveness of
different types of training programs in each center. Currently, budgetary resources
are not allocated by training program, neither nationally nor at each center; the
accounting system does not present cost data by training program, either. Second, a
major portion of its course syllabi and training materials were developed on the
technological base of 1978-83 and are becoming outdated. During that period the
economic atmosphere was greatly different from that of 1990-91, and the levels of
technology in all sectors are now significantly higher and are rapidly changing.
Consequently, CONALEP must proceed promptly in modifying and modernizing its course
offerings, replacing worn-out and obsolete equipment, and planning and implementing
alternative methods of training delivery, so as to optimize the utilization of
human, physical and financial inputs throughout its system. When completed, the
results of these actions would be made available to the other education and training
systems in Mexico and other Latin American countries.  Third, CONALEP will have to
meet new challenges, including: (i) insufficient training opportunities and
regional imbalances resulting from a rapid growth of the maquiladora industry in the
northern frontier and other regions of the country, and of the tourism industry in
the Pacific coastal area;> (ii) the observed tendency of increased demand for
skilled workers and middle level technicians, resulting in a 40% expansion for the
secondary sector between 1980 and 1990, and a 92% increase in the service sector
over the same period; (iii) an increased demand for evening programs--modular and
upgrading--from employed workers, especially women, who want to i.ncrease
productivity or gain access to new technologies; and (iv) the demand for short-term
traininLg among marginal populations, informal sectors, and those areas where fixed
installations are not economical.
D.          Government Strategy for Techrical Training Development
2.16.       Because of the amount of time and complexities involved in the creation
and development of this completely new and very large training system, CONALEP was
conceived as a multi-phased effort. The first phase of CONALEP's program (1979-
1984) involved creating the program, testing its major components and initiating its
development. Phase II of the CONALEP program (1985-1990) consisted of an increase
ib the capacity of the CONALEP system and adjustments in institutional,
administrative and training aspects of the program.  As part of the "Edura&ional
7  The maguiladora sector is experiencing rapid growth.   Direct sector
employment increased by 28% or 110,000 in 1988 alone, and another increase of
500,000 is expected by 1996. Furthermore, increasingly complex technology in
production processes is resulting in corresponding increases in the numbers and
quality of technicians and skilled workers required. "Direct Foreign Investment
in Mexico, Past Patterns and Future Strategy" (August 1988, World Bank Report No.
7146-ME) underscores the need for training in the maquiladora sector.   With
regard to the tourism sector, at the end of 1938 this sector directly and
indirectly employed about 0.5 million and 1.3 miliion, respectively, and is
projected to employ about 0.8 million and 2.4 million, respectively, by the end
of 1.996.



16
Modernization Program" (1989-94) of the current administration, the Government
embarked on a major modernization program in CCNALEP. Hence, Phase III of the
CONALEP program (1991-1996) will consist oft consolidation of earlier achievement.;
modernization and improvements in the quality and flexibility of program offerings
to meet changing needs; improvements in the articulation with the productive,
education, and public sectors; upgrading of the knowledge and skills of employed and
unemployed workers; and efforts to cater more to the needs of uarginal populations.
2.17.       The Government's strategy as outlined in the 1989-1994 National
Development strategy has three fundamental objectives: (a) stabilization of
domestic conditions to improve the quality of life and strengthen the economic base
of the country; (b) globalization of its commerce, stimulation of market development
and strengthening of its competitive ability; and (c) deregulation of private sector
initiatives and the creation of an environment highly favorable to capital
investment and economic growth. It is realized that attainment of these objectives
requires an integral strategy that is sensitive to the needs and demands of the
population and that will permit making the best use of international advances in
production and marketing technology.
2.18.       The implications of the above objectives on education in general, and
upon technical training in particular, are significant. Consequently, the
Secretariat of Education (SEP), with major inputs from CONALEP, set forth the
specific education and training objectives to be pursued in this process of
education modernization. As a result, the following specific objectives were set
out in the National Development Plan for 1989-1994 to guide the process of education
modernization: (a) improve the quality of the education system to assure congruence
with the national development objectives; (b) elevate the educational level of the
population; (c) decentralize educational administration and appropriately distribute
educational opportunity in accordance with the requirements of the modernization
plan and the characteristics of the diverse sectors of society; and (d) strengthen
the participation of social and productive sector groups in the education process.
At the same time three major lines of strategy were delineated to carry out sectoral
actions: (a) streng.hen those education services which have been shown to be most
effective; (b) revise and reorient those programs and services which are not
appropriately responding to socioeconomic conditions; and (c) initiate education
models fully appropriate to the socioeconomic needs of participants, and introduce
modern scientific and technological innovatians into the education process.
2.19.       With respect to technical education, the SEP's Modernization Plan
emphasized the need to: (a) orient human resources development programs to meet the
trained manpower requirements of the productive sectors; (b) adapt them to meet the
rapid changes in science and technology; and (c) initiate flexible modes of training
to provide a means for employed skilled workers and technicians to keep their
technical knowledge and skills up-to-date (upgrading). As the largest and most
effective technical education and training system in the country, CONALEP has been
assigned the major role in the preparation and upgrading of the manpower
requirements of the National Development Plan. Like the other sub-systems of the
national education system, CONALEP plans to confront serious challenges for change,
among which are: (a) decentralization of selected administrative services; the mode
or format for providing technical training in regions and locations of greater
socioeconomic needs, taking full consideration of local/regional trained manpower
needs and availability of local and regional human, physical and financial



17
resources. (b) the need for innovative and flexible modalities for delivering new
training programs to upgrade employed workers' skill levels and productivity, in
addition to the traditional pre-service training programs; (c) the necessity to
diversify the source of financing training costs through technical internships of
trainees, cost sharing, full cost recovery for upgrading and other in-service
programs; and (d) increasing the role of the private sector in a broad range of
cooperative training activities. It is the achievement of these ends and other
equally relevant ones that the proposed project addresses.
E.          Previous Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
2.20.       Priou  Exerience.  The proposed project would be the third Bank
operation with CONALEP. The Technical Training Project, with financing of US$90.0
million equivalent under Loan 2042-HE of July 1981, supported the first phase of
CONALEP's development program (1979-84). This phase comprised: (a) constructing,
furnishing and equipping of a central administrative complex and support complexe.
as a base for effective management of the system; (b) constructing, furnishing and
equipping of 99 (later amended to 122) training centers throughout the country with
a capacity of 70,000 trainees (for the original 99 centers; 93,000 for the amended
122 center6); and (c) recruiting and training of 4100 instructors. According to the
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 7136, March 1, 1988), which includes the
Project Completion Report (March 31, 1986), performance for this first phase
program, which was fully implemented in only 43 months, was very successful. The
report states:
In most areas project performance . . . has surpassed appraisal
expectations. This applies to number of beneficiary centers (122 vs.
99), number of trainees (93,000 vs. 70,000), instructors trained (almost
15,000, not counting 8,900 undergoing upgrading courses, vs. 4,100) and
unit cost (US$500--US$875 if donations by enterprises are taken into
account--vs. US$1,000). Only the annual output figures are still
lagging behind expectations, pointing to a lower than expected internal
efficiency. CONALEP is vigorously addressing this problem with good
initial results, although part of the difficulties are of an exogenous
nature (e.g., difficult economic conditions) and thus outside CONALEP's
influence.
One important feature of this first phase program was that many of the training
centers were donated by the pr4vate sector or the government agencies, and the Bank
loan did not finance any civil works at all; this was repeated in the Bank-financed
Second Technical Training Project.
2.21.       The Second Technical Training Project, with financing of US$81.0 million
equivalent under Loan 2559-ME of July 16, 1985, supported the second phase
development program (1985-90). This program provided for: (a) constructing,
furnishing and equipping of 97 (later increased to 130) additional training centers;
(b) establishing of 24 furniture and equipment production units in 24 training
centers by providing for revolving funds for production supplies; and (c) technical
assistance to strengthen CONALEP's administrative capacity, the structure of its
training programs, and the quality of its instruction. The Project Completion
Report for this project (May 23, 1991), as well as discussions with a wide range of



18
employers regarding the implementation of the oecond project, show that it has been
successful and that CONALEP's implementation performance was good. The major
results of this phase were: (a) both quantitative and qualitative goal attainment
was sign:lficantly greater tban planned; (b) a total of 130 centers, establishing an
enrollmert capacity of 239,000 for CONALEP; (c) completion rates of training
programs increased from 40% oni the average over the period 1979-86 to 52% and are
continuing to rise; (d) operational officiency and program effective-asst are
improving as a result of, inter alia, more effective use of advisory committees and
business/industrial/social welfare associations; (e) quality of instruction was
improved through enhancement of instructional capabilities of about 13,000
in&tructors, course syllabi improvements by specialists, introduction of pilot
production training programs in 70 centers, which produced 62,000 items of equipment
and furniture, and which, in addition to enhancing quality of training, had a net
savings of about US$930,000; (f) CONALEP's receipt, during budget year 1990, of
other cash income and donations "in kind" from non-budgetary sources (private and
public enterprises and associations), amounting to a value of about US$12.9 million,
and eqLal to about 14%8 of itc 1990 recurrent costs (Annex 4, Attachment); and
(g) the further development of a maintenance system for buildings, furniture and
equipment which, in addition to training enhancement, a-so resulted during 1990
alone in an estimated value of about US$1.05 million of maintenance activities being
conducted by trainees and instructors.
2.22.       Additionally, although not required under the loan, four high priority
pilot training programs were successfully carried out (with government and private
funding) in support of the Government's 1989-94 development plan. The major thrust
of these was directed at assistance to marginal populations, micro-industry, self
employment and the maquiladora industry. Regarding marginal populations, 70 low
income groups in the federal district were trained in home maintenance, utilizing
mobile training units constructed in CONALEP training centers, and through the
actual repair of 212 selected low income homes; and 391 heads of families were
trained in the 12 basic skills required for the repair and maintenance of public
school furniture and utilities. With respect to self emnployment, through a seriee
of supplemental courses offered for the better students in selected career programs,
about 9,100 third year trainees received special training, by qualified and
experienced specialists, in the various aspects of self employment development
including planning, initiating, operating and marketing of goods and services for
which there is an unfulfilled demand, and in the preparation of applicat'ons of
credit. This program was initiated in 42 training centers in 1987-90, and in 1990
alone 103 small businesses have been established, generating employment
opportunities for 326 workero directly, and 1,300 indirectly. National Finance Co.,
Inc. (NAFIN) has established a line of credit to assist them. As for the
maquiladora industry, about 30 maquiladora enterprises benefited from CONALEP's
pilot program in the training of in-plant trainers, who provided training to a total
of 2,536 workers in 834 companies. Nearly all of the direct training costs were
recovered from the participating enterprises. Further development of these and
related priority activities would comprise significant components in the propobed
project.
8 This figure represents the percentage of total 1990 recurrent costs;
improvements in cost accounting under the proposed project (para 3.20) would
enable refinement of these figures.



19
2.23.       Lessons Learned.  The major lessons learned, as a result of the
experiences during implementation of the above mentioned projects are summarized as
follows:
a)    in view of the shortcomings of the design of the Graduate Tracer Studies
(such as a short fol) --up period and a lack of control groups for
comparison of the eff-tiveness of CONALEP training programs), CONALEP
should improve the current tracer study system and apply it to in-
service training programs as well;
b)    in view of the still acute problem of internal inefficiency (such as low
completion rates and high unit costs in some training centers), CONALEP
should investigate the causes of inefficiency and take proper remedial
a ;tions;
c)    in view of the surplus training capacity in a few agricultural programs
in some more remote areas of the country, where the demand for training
is not well defined, qualified personnel from professional organizations
must participate in the analysis of demand and of development of
programs;
d)    in view of observed delays in project implementation, as a result of the
lack of familiarity by new CONALEP Administrators with Bank process and
procedures, a short seminar on project implementation should be
conducted by Bank Supervision Missions when such changes occur;
e)    in view of relatively rapid developments in technology in Mexico, and
their iLvlications on space planning criteria and requirements for
shops, 4aboratories and other support spaces, consideration must be
given rc  only to the expected immediate use of these spaces but their
possible medium and longer term uses resulting from technological
chantet;
f)    in view rf rapid technological changes, equipment redistribution from
one centt. to another should be considered, based mainly on weekly hours
of use, 6sit and type of program; and
g)    due to instal.lation difficulties experienced in a few institutions where
large quan'. 1ties and heavy or sophisticated equipment was involved, such
installaticen should be contracted to the respective suppliers.
2f24.       These lessons have been duly taken into account in the design of the
proposed project. In particular, the project would include an improvement in the
Graduate Tracer Studies, a study on the identification of the high dropout rate at
the beginning of training programs and high unit costs in some centers,
strengthening of the preventive maintenance system, formulation of action plans to
overcome the identified problems, and strengthening of industrial committees and
advisory boards in some sectors. }.n addition, the floor plan and the list of
equipment and furniture of new training facilities would take into account rapid
technological changes. Remedial actions on a few agricultural training programs are
also included in the proposed project. The implementation arrangements have also



20
taken into account the periodic changes in CONALEP administration and the bearing of
such changes on procurement.
F.          Ration le for Bank Involvement
2.25.       The Bank's program of support for Mexico's economic restructuring effort
includes substantial assistance in the area of human resources, aiming both to
remove constraints to resumed growth such as skill shortages, and to ease the pain
of restructuring. The Bank's strategy for human resources development emphasizes
the expansion of access to pre-primary education and improvements in the quality and
efficiency of basic education (grades 1-9), especially in the poorer parts of the
country, in order to provide flexibly, broadly, and generally educated manpower for
the economy; training in specific skills can be provided later depending on the
specific needs. In this context, the Bank is in the final stages of preparing pre-
primary and primary education projects for Bank financing. In the area of non-
formal training the earlier Bank support to the CONALEP training system needs to be
followed up to modernize its training programs in accordance with the technology of
the 1990s, through improvements in instructor training, equipment aud instructional
materials, and maintenance systems. The CONALEP training system also needs to be
followed up for: adjustments in its course offering on the basis of the new labor
market studies; the strengthening of its linkages with private enterprises to
improve the relevance of training courses; and the enhancement of the degree of
financial self sufficiency. At the same time, and in synergy with the Manpower
Training, the Basic Health Care, and the proposed Basic Education Projects, the
proposed project would address the training needs of the poor and disadvantaged, and
take another step in rationalizing and improving the efficiency and financing of the
entire Mexican training system. The experience gained and the collaborative
relationship developed between the Bank, NAFIN and CONALEP during the implementation
of two successful earlier projects would be important assets for project
implementation. Currently ongoing labor market studies under the Manpower Training
Project, and investigations by other Mexican economists would provide a better basis
for dimensioning and targeting of Government and Bank interventions with the
project. At present, the Bank is the only external aid agency involved in technical
education and training.
2.26. The Bank's strategy for non-formal training in Mexico has been two-pronged.
On the one hand, in view of the predominant role played by public institutions in
non-formal technical education and training, the Bank has supported the major public
training institution, CONALEP, through two loans (Loans 2042-ME and 2559-ME). The
proposed Third Technical Training Project will further improve the quality and
efficiency of CONALEP's programs, On the other hand, in view of the lack of payroll
taxes and/or fiscal and financial incentives to finance train,Lng by enterprises in
general in Mexico, the Bank has supported Government efforts to provide technical
assistance for enterprises either to organize in-plant training or to contract with
public training institutions on a cost sharing basis (under Loan 2876-ME for the
Manpower Training Project being implemented by the Secretariat of Labor). This line
of support will be further followed up by strengthening the incentive system for the
private enterprises to undertake training more actively. The Bank's longer term
strategy for non-formal training is to assist the Government in shifting the
emphasis in provision of training from the position of public sector domination to
one in which private sector initiative is more actively encouraged. First steps in
this direction are being supported under the proposed project.



21
III. THE PROJECT
A.          Origin of the Project
3.1.        While informal inquiries concerning the possibilities of a third
technical training project have been raised from time to time, a formal request was
not made until the third quarter of FY 1989. A Bank identification mission was
fielded during March 1990. This was followed by a preparation assistance mission
during June 1990, and another during November 1990. A pre-appraisal mission was
fielded for two weeks during January and February 1991, and was followed by the
appraisal mission in March 1991.
B.          Obiectives
3.2.        The proposed project would assist the Government in the implementation
of the policies and attainment of the objectives and goals as set forth in the
National Development Plan for 1989-94 (para. 2.17). These were further elaborated
under the SEP's Education Modernizatinn Plan of 1989-94 and the Program for
Modernization of the CONALEP (Technical Education and Training) System for 1989-94
(paras. 2.17-2.19). The general objective of the project is to carry out the
overall modernization of the system in such a manner as to consolidate the
quantitative and qualitative gains achieved thus far and to further improve the
quality, efficiency and relevance of the CONALEP system. The specific project
objectives are to:
a)    uniformly upgrade the quality of high level skills training and middle
level technician training to contribute to meeting the rapidly changir.g
needs of the labor market;
b)    selectively expand the range of CONALEP's training activities in key
sectors, especially in-service training and on a cost-recovery basis,
and initiate a modular program in the evening to enhance skill levels of
mature, experienced and employed workers; and
c)    strengthen the administration of CONALEP, increase efficiency and
improve cost reduction/recovery plans.
3.3.        The proposed project differs significantly from the two previous
projects in that they dealt almost entirely with the physical development of the
training system and its administrative infrastructure. The proposed project deals
almost entirely with improvements in the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of
the system, with 69% of total project cost allocated to these components. Only 31S
of total costs are allocated to expansion of training activities, of which only one
half (15X of total costs) is allocated to expansion of physical spaces. Even here
there is only a 6% increase in total training space. The 67% increase in total
enrollment capacity would result mainly from improvements in the utilization factor
of training spaces, which would be made possible by increasing the number of late
afternoon and evening classes. This project would also enhance CONALEP's capacity
for cost recovery/sharing from industry.



22
C.          Project Components and Description
3.4.        The objectives of the proposed project would be attained through three
distinct but mutually supporting project components, each comprising a number of
interrelated subcomponents. Systematic improvements, as well as targeting of the
expansion of programs under the project, will be based on ongoing analysis as well
as eleven planned studies, concerning CONALEP programs' quality, efficiency and
impacts (Annex 3). In order to ensure the timely availability of the results of
these studies, they will be prioritized and phased in accordance with the extent to
which their information and recommendations are required in the implementation of
other aspects of the project. At negotiations. the Government presented, and
agreement was reached on. draft terms of reference for the eleven studies. The
Government also, at negotiations. provided assurances that seven of the eleven
studies would be initiated during the twelve months following loan effectiveness and
completed by the date specified in the agreed terms of reference, to be available by
the time of the mid-term review of the Project (para 4.22). It was further agreed
that action plans. satisfactory to the Bank. would be prepared within six months of
the completion of the studies to implement the studies' recommendations.
Preparation and submission of final terms of reference for all studies would be a
condition of effectiveness.
1.          Quality Improvements
(Costs: US$104.4 million, including contingencies)
3.5.        On the basis of carefully designed new, ongoing and completed studies
(Annex 3) at state and local levels, this component would: (i) analyze the needs
for new modes of training, new training options and/or changes in or
elimination/transfer of existing options, in accordance with clearly identified
trained manpower needs and firm plans for the development of the productive sectors;
and (ii) improve the overall quality of CONALEP's training programs (para. 2.15).
Specifically, this component would comprise the following subcomponents:
3.6.         (a)  Instructional Materials Development.  All of the course syllabi,
daily lesson plans and evaluation materials for the 97 career programs, currently
based upon the technology of the 1970s, would be reviewed and upgraded as necessary
to reflect the technological levels of the 1990s. This would entail the
development/revision of about 2300 titles and the production of about 14 million
copies and would require technical assistance for the development of prototypes and
the reproduction of the manuals developed. To this end, special studies in priority
fields of concern have been planned and would be initiated so that the results of
the studies and recommendations are available for Bank review and comment before the
mid-term review (para 4.22; Annex 3).
3.7.        (b)  Instructor Training.  This subcomponent would revamp the current
ad-hoc instructor training system, and would assist in the improvement of instructor
performance through the enhancement of pedagogical, scientific and technological
capability. Under this subcomponent, instructors would receive short intensive pre-
service methodology training and in-service training in both methodology and
technology. To support this activity, an instructor training center, which would
accommodate 100 instructors at one time, would be constructed, furnished and fully
equipped with an appropriate reference library. This center and its regional
outreach facilities located in regular training centers and in the eight



23
technological development and production-maintenance centers (paras. 3.8 and 3.19)
would provide pro-service training for about 4,700 instructors and in-service
pedagogical and technological training for another 4,000 instructors, including
company in-plant trainers, on an annual basis.
3.8.        (c)  Technological Development and Assistance Centers.  This
subcomponent provides for the development of eight existing centers to serve as
regional Technological Development and Assistance Centers (TDACs). The TDACs would
provide support to: (a) other CONALEP centers, e.g., in the maintenance of advanced
equipment and through the sharing of common facilities; (b) the instructor training
program; and (c) micro, small, and medium sized enterprises, on a cost-reimbursement
basis, in the design/construction of prototypes and sub-assemblies, and in the
provision of other services. The TDACs would also contribute to qualitative
improvements in CONALEP's training programs. They would provide assistance in
upgrading the technological capability of training center instructors (para. 3.7).
Through close contact and formal studies with national and regional productive
sector enterprises and associations, and via the use of industrially qualified
subject-matter specialists, the TDACS would also contribute to keeping regular and
upgrading course syllabi concurrent with the evolution of technology in the
workplace. Additionally, designs and production prototypes of specialized items of
training equipment would be fabricated under this subcomponent by advanced students
in the equipment production/training program (para. 3.19). The TDACs would also
provide specialized advanced technology training through a program of selective
upgrading of employed skilled workers and technicians (para. 3.12) with full cost
recovery. Development of the eight centers would include supplemental construction,
furnishing and equipping of existing centers. Complementary utilization of physical
and human resources would be maximized under this subcomponent, because the TDACs
would be developed as joint complexes with the regional maintenance centers (para.
3.19), located on sites of existing industrial training centers and sharing certain
common facilities and expensive equipment. At negotiations, the Government
presented, and agreement was reached on. draft operational manuals for the
Technological Development and Assistance Centers. As a condition of effectiveness.
the Government would provide evidence that the operational manual has been formally
adopted by CONALEP and is ready for use.
2.          Expansion of CONALEP's Training Activities
(Costs: US$63.8 million, including contingencies)
3.9.        In addition to upgrading existing programs, the proposed project would
also support the selective expansion of CONALEP's training activities in key
sectors, especially through in-service training and on a cost-recovery basis (para.
2.15), including: (a) training in response to demands from the maquiladora
industry; (b) training for the tourism sector; (c) the initiation of a modular
program in the evening and short-term upgrading courses; (d) training for unemployed
workers and marginal populations; and (e) other minor but strategic actions such as
training for food production and pond fish farming, and programs linked to
productive activities. In accommodating these training programs, utilization of
existing facilities would be optimized through the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 70 additional shops, 50 laboratories, 191 classrooms and other small
auxiliary spaces in 101 of the existing 252 training centers; this would comprise
only a 6% space increase, but would permit a 16% increase in daytime enrollments in
priority programs. This component would also support the reorientation and



24
diversification of training program offerings, in accordance with the economic and
technological needs of those fields of economic activity which have heretofore not
been adequately addressed, and the development of full curricular materials,
teaching-learning aids and equipment for new training programs in conjunction with
such reorientation and diversification. Specifically, this component comprises the
following subcomponents:
3.10.       (a)  Trainina Assistance for the Maguiladora Sector.  This subcomponent
would provide higher quality manpower (through pre-service training) and upgrade the
existing workforce (through in-service training) in the maquiladora sector (para.
2.15), with the assistance of maquiladora industry associations and representative
enterprises. This would involve the following activities: (a) promptly carrying
out a technical study to identify additional training programs to be implemented in
selected training centers within the respective maquiladora zones; (b) preparing and
providing full curricular materials, teaching-learning aids and equipment for the
new training programs, and updating course syllabi for related careers;
(c) expanding upgrading course offerings for employed workers and, with major
financial participation of respective enterprises, increasing the numbers of in-
plant trainers prepared; and (d) preparing, through special training activities
staffed by industrially experienced consultants, about 60 qualified instructors to
conduct special courses focused on "the planning, developm-rt and management of
micro-enterprises in the maquiladora sector". As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would preRare an action plan to strengthen CONALEP's advisory committee
system at the state and national levels for the maguiladora sector, and to establish
cost recovery/sharing and related accounting policies and criteria, satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.11.       (b)  Training Assistance for the Tourism Sector.  In support of the
tourism sector (para. 2.15), this component would: (a) with the cooperation of the
Secretariats of Tourism and of Labor, and with specialist assistance, quickly
complete a study of the characteristics of the sector, its evolution by region and
the occupational profiles for which CONALEP can assist in technical manpower
preparation; (b) on the basis of the study, update all course syllabi and
instructional materials for existing sectoral training programs; (c) with specialist
assistance, develop new technician-level career course syllabi, instructional and
eval-ation materials for hotel management, electro-mechanical maintenance for
hotels, and food service management, and upgrade a program for tourist guides; (d)
upgrade instructor skills; (e) initiate a modular training program, as a pilot
program in four tourism training centers; (f) simultaneously with initiation of
these pilot programs, mount a technical study of the demand for such modular tourism
training programs in four major tourism regions; (g) with specialist assistance,
prepare and provide the equipment and instructional aids/materials for new and
upgraded careers/programs; and (h) in cooperation with tourism sector enterprises,
reach an agreement on the types and content of in-service training programs for
employed workers and offer such training programs on a cost-sharing basis. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Government would preRare an action Rlan to
strenathen CONALEP's advisory committee system at the state and national levels for
the tourism sector, and to establish cost recoverv/sharing and related accounting
Dolicies and criteria, satisfactory to the Bank.
3.12.       (c)  In-Service Training Programs.  Under this subcomponent, the project
would assist in the provision of training to: (a) about 40,000 employed skilled



25
workers annually, in modular evo-ning class programs, who wish to upgrade their
skills to the technician level; and (b) about 68,000 employed workers annually in
shorter courses in order to update their technical skills (Table 5.2). Training
costs under this subcomponent would be cooperatively financed under agreements with
specific enterprises and assoc!ations. The project would provide for financing of
supplementary furniture, equipment and instructional materials development and
upgrading by industrially experienced specialists. As a result of the initiation of
modular technician level programs with classes in the evening for employed workers,
the utilization factor of existing training center facilities would be increased by
44Z over that of 1990-91.
3.13.       (d)  Special Training Program for Marginal Areas.  This program is
directed at helping to assist urban and rural poor in improving their quality of
life through training, with appropriate emphasis on the needs of women. To this
effect CONALEP has entered into an agreement with the Government's National
Solidarity Program (PRONASOL) and with state and municipal governments and will play
a major role in providing some basic skills to the poor. Operational training costs
would be financed by these entities. A system of non-loan supported student aid or
stipends (becas), as in the Manpower Project under Loan 2876-ME, would be used in
financing the training costs. To build upon the "self-help" attitude of community
people and leaders, which has been amply demonstrated in the pilot programs which
CONALEP carried out during 1989-90 (para. 2.22), community leaders would participate
in program planning and operation. This component would finance the costs of:
(a) specialist assistance to develop special courses of varying lengths, trainee
selection criteria, training materials for productive and service activities,
including courses on the development and operation of micro-enterprises and
cooperative activities, designed on the basis of well-defined local and regional
requirements and conditions and utilizing, wherever feasible, the community
infrastructure as a supplemental training facility; with well-illustrated training
materials and supported by other audio-visual aids; (b) construction and equipping
in CONALEP training centers of a total of 60 mobile training units, 40 small, 15
modium and 5 large trailers and 6 traction units for moving them between training
sites; with an annual total training capacity of about 5,800, for use in delivery of
training in areas not served by permanent training centers; (c) special orientation
courses for key training center personnel and community leaders in the development,
presentation and operation of small and medium community and private investment
projects; and (d) specialists to plan and carry out special studies on (i) the
identification, economic feasibility and critical characteristics and needs of small
rural investment projects, including the need for and availability of production
credit through PRONASOL or other official credit sources, and on (ii) maximizing the
effectiveness of CONALEP pre-service trainees, during their year of social service,
in community assistance programs in marginal areas. At negotiations. the Government
presented, and aareement was reached on. a draft operational manual for the mobile
training units for use with marginal RoPulations. As a condition of effectiveness,
the Government would provide evidence that the operational manual has been formally
adopted by CONALEP and is ready for use.
3.14.       (e)  Other Strategic TraininR ProRrams.  Under this subcomponent, the
project would support other minor but strategic actions such as training for
fisheries, food processing, pilot programs linked to productive activities, and
self-employment (para. 2.22). Net expenditures on these programs--i.e.,



26
expenditures minus the corresponding cost recovery--would not excced 7% of total
project costs. Programs under this subcomponent are described below.
3.15.       (i)  Food Production and Pond Fish Farming Program.  This is one of the
programs on which PRONASOL places priority emphasis in assistance to the poor and
disadvantaged population. COWALEP's t:aining assistance to the rural poor in food
production has been of limited success in the past, primarily due to the
unavailability of appropriate production credits that would permit application of
knowledge and skills gained. CONALEP has not been involved in pond fish farming;
however evidence from around the world points to the high feasibility and the many
benefits (including protein production, low investment and high return) of such
programs. To address this issue, CONALEP would, with the assistance of
appropriately qualified agricultural specialists: (a) initiate a study of factors
associated with unsuccessful food production training centers and recommend
curricular changes and/or transfers of programs to areas of higher demand;
(b) implement these curricular changes, including special courses (such as marketing
of products, the need for production credit, gaining access to it and risks
involved) of varying lengths in accordance with local needs and trainees' levels of
capability; (c) transfer programs with inadequate demand to areas of appropriate
demand; (d) initiate pilot training programs in about 15 centers of about 18
trainees each for fresh water fish production in farm ponds; (e) properly equip such
programs with training equipment and training materials, including actual ponds for
fish production under realistic and economically feasible conditions; (f) properly
equip all other food production and processing programs according to the same
principles as in (e) above; and (g) initiate upgrading programs for about 1,500
established farmers per year during 1992-93, with a goal of up to 5,000 per year by
1996-97, with part of this group receiving training via the mobile units (para.
3.13). As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would establish an advisory
committee system for the food 2roduction and pond fish farming training programs.
3.16.       (ii)  School and In-Plant Cooperative Technician Training Programs.  The
primary objectives of this program are to improve training quality and to increase
student motivation and retention. Under this program the project would:
(a) initiate, jointly with local enterprises and 10 training centers, pilot training
programs consisting of three days per week of in-center training in technical theory
and basic knowledge, and three days per week of practical work in industry, with the
objective of reducing both recurrent and capital costs of training, and increasing
training capacity and relevance; and (b) initiate 10 pilot training programs in
which the training is provided in a center-based setting with all practical training
being accomplished through the production of goods and/or services.
3.17.       (iii)  Self-Em2loyment Programs.  The objective of this program is to
promote individual or small group self-employment opportunities for CONALEP
graduates, by complementing technical training with structured training by qualified
specialists, in the various aspects of planning, initiating and operating, including
marketing of goods and services for which there is an unfilled demand, and in the
preparation and presentation of applications for credit. This series of
supplemental courses offered to the better students in selected career programs was
initiated in 42 training centers in 1987 as a pilot program. About 9,100 students
participated in this program during 1987-89; so far, these students have established



27
103 micro-enterprises with 336 direct employees and about 1,300 indirect workers.'
The project would assist in: (a) preparation of 250 additional instructor-promoters
of this specific training program with the assistance of qualified and experienced
managers of small enterprises; (b) upgrading of instructional materials; (c) in
addition to six existing agreements, establish others with relevant federal and
state government institutions for program assistance, including access to a line of
credit to qualified trainees of the program; and (d) initiate special short courses
for interested employed (and unemployed) workers in the existing training centers.
It is expected that during 1991-97 about 30,000 third year trainees in the regular
CONALEP training programs would participate, and that about 1,500 new micro-
enterprises would be established with up to about 5,000 employed workers.
3.          Increasina CONALEP's Efficiency and Effectiveness
(Costs: US$36.3 million, including contingencies)
3.18.       Through the following activities, the project would strengthen the
administration of CONALEP, increase efficiency and improve cost reduction/recovery
plans.
3.19.        (a)  Decentralization of Equipment Maintenance Services and Expansion of
Production Programs. This subcomponent would assist in the full
institutionalization of the buildings, furniture and equipment maintenance services
Rrogram (para. 2.21). A maintenance unit would be established or strengthened in
each of the 252 training centers and appropriately equipped to handle general
building and ground maintenance as well as routine furniture and equipment repair at
the local level. These activities would be carried out with the assistance of
instructors and advanced students, with the primary objective of enhancing learning
through practical experience. AddItionally, to facilitate the repair of major items
and more complex equipment, eight regional maintenance centers would require
supplemental construction and equipment; these centers would be developed in
conjunction with the Technological Development and Assistance Centers (para. 3.8),
with which they would share complexes. The project would finance such construction,
furnishing and equipping of these facilities. At negotiations, the Government
presented, and agreement was reached on, a revised draft operational manual for the
maintenance services program; formal adoption bv CONALEP of the final manual would
be a condition for effectiveness. The project would also expand to all the 252
training centers the highly successful equipment production program initiated in 70
cent.ers under the CONALEP II project, which produced over a three year period a net
income of about US$930,000 over material costs (para. 2.21). The project would
allocate about US$11.4 million to finance the cost of materials and supplies to
establish production units for the production of CONALEP's furniture and equipment
for COhALEP centers as well as other public trai:L.ng centers managed by government
agencies, and for the provision of selected services. On the basis of experience in
CONALEP II, it is projected that over a five year period the net income from the
project would amount to about US$17.0 million or an average of about US$3.4 million
per year. At negotiations, the Government presented, and agreement was reached on.
a draft manual for operation of the equiRment production program; formal adoption by
9 The Mid-Term Evaluation Report (March 1991) of the Bank-financed Manpower
Training Project (Loan 2876-ME) also points out that close to one third of those
trainees who completed the retraining program were self-employed.



28
GONALEP of the final manual would be a condition for effectiveness. While
implementation of these two programs is expected to result in financial returns, the
underlying objectives of this subcomponent are to enhance the quality of training,
improve student motivation and retention, reduce training costs from the government
approprised budget, and reduce CONALEP's capital investment costs for furniture and
equipment.
3.20.       (b)  Improvement of CONALEP's Administrative Capacities.  The
improvement of communications within the system, and the upgrading and increasing of
efficiency and effectiveness of the total administrative process at and between the
central level and the individual training centers (para. 2.15) would be realized
through the development of a communications network, with computer modem and telefax
connections to each of the 252 training centers--including, notably, the eight
regional facilities--and the instructor training facility, and the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a main computer and communications facility at the
central headquarters of CONALEP. This program would be phased in over time, and
would be based on a study and experiences during the phasing-in period. Issues such
as the design of the system, and whether full coverage (to all centers) is
necessary, would be covered in the proposed study.
3.21.       (c)  Improvement of Cost Recovery/Sharing/Accounting of Training.  In
view of the significant successes during the last two years (Annex 4), the receipts
during the first two months of 1991, and the rapid increases in the numbers of
special agreements (convenios) signed with public and private enterprises and
associations, CONALEP has set as its goal an increase from 13.6X of its recurrent
expenditures in 1990/91 to 20.0% in 1996; this represents an average annual increase
of about 15Z in real terms in CONALEP's cost recovery/cost sharing receipts over the
period of 1991 to 1996. In this context, the Government has developed strategies
and policies by sector/training program, for increasing cost recovery (Annex 4).
The estimates for these years are shown in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: IFnroving Training Cost Recovery/Cost Sharing During 1991-96
1990/1   1991    1992     1993     1994     1995   1996
-U-S-S-miL-l- - - - - - - - -    US$ million  in vaTue - - - - - - - - - - -
(In constant 1990 dollars)
Cost Recovery/Sharing
(Cash and In-Kind)        12.9    14.8    17.1      19.6     22.6     25.9   29.8
(X of CONALEP
Recurrent Expenditures)   (13.6%)  (14.7%)   (15.7%)   (16.8%)   (17.9%)   (18.9%)  (20.0%)
(X of MarginaL Recurrent Costs of
Project in 1996-97)                                                        (41.0%)
Li Actual.
At negotiations. the Government provided assurances that CONALEP would
increase its overall cost recoverv receipts at an annual rate satisfactory to
the Bank so that. by the end of calendar year 1996. such receipts will be
esuivalent to 20Z of CONALEP's recurrent costs. The project would also assist
CONALEP in the strengthening of its cost accounting procedures. The objective



29
would be to allow the management of CONALEP to evaluate the efficiency of
various training programs--in particular, the costs of in-service training
programs on an individual program or center basis--and compare them with the
revenues collected from the clients. To achieve this goal, the project would
finance technical assistance.  ht negotiations. the Government presented. and
agreement was reached on. draft terms of reference for a study on improving
CONALEP's cost accounting system and cost recovery criteria and procedures:
provided assurances that by loan effectiveness CONALEP would submit to the
Bank for anproval final terms of reference, draft contracts for consultants
and a short list of consultants to be hired: and provided assurances that the
cost accounting and cost recovery study would be initiated within six months
of loan effectiveness and would be completed by March 31. 1993. and that
action plans on the basis of the results of the studies would be prepared
satisfactory to the Bank. by June 30. 1993. CONALEP would also look into the
causes of high unit costs for about 50 centers (para. 2.13). At negotiations.
the Government also provided assurances that CONALEP would prepare a plan.
gatisfactorv to the Bank. to take remedial actions on these high unit cost
centers, by June 30, 1992.
3.22.       (d)  Improving Efficiency in Student Flows and Graduate Placement.
The completion rates of trainees in the regular, pre-service training programs
require improvement (para. 2.12). The attrition rate in the first semester,
particularly during the first half, is very high. The reasons for this
situation are not clearly defined, although it has been a secular problem in
Mexico. Factors seemingly associated with this problem are: (a) inadequate
student selection and orientation; (b) high academic/training standards;
(c) relatively high tuition charges of CONALRP (Mex$70,000 contrasted to
Mex$1,000 paid by public university students); and (d) the continuing strong
lure of academic secondary education as a means of university entrance. In
view of this situation, CONALEP would, with qualified specialist acsistance,
initiate a formal study for which preliminary draft TORs have already been
reviewed and approved by the Bank (Annex 3) to fully analyze the problem and
take such additional corrective measures as are found feasible. While
graduate placement is satisfactory (62Z of graduates start working within
three months, and 84Z of those in their field of training specialization), the
current CONALEP administration realizes that additional information about
placement and earnings, including comparison of earnings and employment
histories of those with training and those without training after three months
and again after one year from graduation, would be useful to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of CONALEP programs. Thus, CONALEP has decided
to introduce significant improvements in the Graduate Tracer System and has
prepared terms of reference for improved tracer studies (Annex 3). The
assistance of qualified consultants and the cooperation of the approximately
1,300 enterprises and associations with which CONALEP has signed agreements of
cooperation (convenios) would strengthen CONALEP's placement and follow-up
systems. It is also expected that an alumni association with some guidance
and placement services would be formed in the near future. At negotiations.
the Government presented, and agreement was reached on. draft terms of
reference. Government also, at neRotiations. provided assurances that CONALEP
would: submit to the Bank for approval. by loan effectiveness, the final
terms of reference, draft contracts for the consultants required. and a short
list of consultants to be hired. for the studies on completion rates of the



30
Pro-eervice traininft grogram and the improvement of the Graduate Tracer
Svetem: initiate the studles. includina collection of data, within six months
of loan effectivenesss comlete the studies by March 1993: and prepare actioA
plans on the basis of the results of the studies by June 30. 1993.



31
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.          Cost of the Prolect (see Annex 5)
4.1.        Costs by Proiect Component.  The total cost of CONALEP's Phase III
development program is estimated at Mex$602 billion, equivalent to US$204.5
million, net of taxes and duties. The total estimated costs and foreign
exchange components by main project component are summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Prolect Costs          X
Local    Foreign   Total    Foreign    Total
Project Compconents                ---------USSmiltion-------   Costs  Base Costs
Quality InprGvements               32.7       53.4     86.1                 51.0
Expansion of Training Activities   20.0       32.6     52.6                 31.0
Increasing Efficiency and Effectiveness  11.4  18.5    29.9                 18.0
TOTAL BASE COSTS                   64.1      104.5     168.6      62.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies              3.2        5.2      8.4       62.0      5.0
Price Contingencies                10.4       17.1     27.5       62.0     16.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTSL               _.7       126.8    204.5       62.0     121.3
La   Excluding taxes and duties.
Figures may not add due to rounding.
4.2.        Basis of Cost Estimates.  Base costs are expressed in prices of
April 1, 1991. Estimated costs of civil works and furniture for the project
are based upon unit prices derived from current contracts in Phase II and
detailed estimates from other Mexican projects of a similar nature. Costs are
adjusted to reflect regional variations within the country. Professional fees
and site development costs are not calcul&ted separately. Equipment costs are
derived from preliminary and final lists, and they reflect a substantial
revision of equipment costs, lists and specifications, based on the experience
of Phase II.
4.3.        ComDarison of Unit Costs.  The unit area and selected unit capital
cost estimates are shown in Table 4.2. While the unit area estimates are
generally comparable to those for similar projects supported by the Bank and
others carried out in the Latin America and Caribbean Region, a comparison of
unit cost estimates for construction of the small additions of classrooms,
shops and other spaces with the construction of complete schools in other
projects would have no realistic meaning and therefore is not made. Furniture
and equipment costs are for the provision of supplemental furniture and
equipment only.



32
TABLE 4.2: UNIT COST AND SPACE COMPARISON
Item                                CONALEP II                 CONALEP III
Ivemen Uit Cost                                  ..... USS---...................
Construction/n/                      S  173                     S  180
Furniture & Equipment Costs/Trainee Ptace  1,094                   235 (Supplemental only)
Investment Cost per Student          (1990-91)                  (1996-97)
when futly operational                1,474                       567 (Supplemental only)
Mobile Training Units (C+F+E+Tractor Share)  -                    7,812/trainee place
Fixed Training Centers (C+F+E)                                    5,340/trainee place
Pperational Unit Costs
For total enrollments expressed in FTE:
Costs at local training center level                             406
Plus costs at national acninistration levet  -                    96
Totat Unit Costs/FTE Trainee                                  S  502/trainee
For Mobile training units - average fof
1,932 trainees during 1990 in                                (S  43.00/trainee
marginal areas having no other training  -                    (S   0.52/hour
facilities
Space Comparisons
Square meters/Student                   8.2m?                      0.44m2
4.4.        Contingency Allowances.  The program cost includes a physical
contingency allowance equal to 5% of the estimated baseline costs for all
furniture, equipment and technical assistance, and for civil works after
April 1, 1991. Physical and price increase estimates for construction and
furniture are based upon the amount of construction to be performed after
April 1, 1991. Project costs include price and physical contingencies for
construction, furniture, equipment. production materials and technical
assistance. In view of differences in the rate of price escalation bet't-en
local and international market prices, price increases for local and foreign
costs for civil works and technical assistance were calculated separately. It
is assumed that price increases for equipment and instructional materials
would follow international price trends as they would be largely procured
through ICB (para. 4.14). Anticipated price increases during implementation
are shown in Table 4.3. Accordingly, total US$ equivalent value of price
increases during the implementation period are expected to be about 13.4X for
construction, 15.8% for furniture and equipment, 17% for production supplies
and 19.3% for technical assistance. Total contingencies (physical and price)
are estimated at about 21.3S of baseline costs and 17.5% of total costs (Annex
5.1).



33
Table 4.3:  EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES DURING IMPLEMENTATION ^
1991       1992       1993       1994        1995       1996
Local Forei4n Local Foreig  LocaLFeion Local Foreicn Local Foreion Locat Foreion
Construction    7.0   6.2  4.0  4.1  3.1   3.3  2.7   2.8  2.2   2.3  1.9   2.0
EquIpment/      7.4   6.2  4.2   4.1  3.3   3.3  2.8   2.8  2.3   2.3  2.0   2.0
Prod. Suppties
Tech. Assistance    7.7  6.2  4.4  4.1  3.4   3.3  2.9   2.8  2.4   2.3  2.1   2.0
National        7.4   6.2  4.2  4.1  3.3   3.3  2.8   2.8  2.3   2.3  2.0   2.0
Y     Local price increases are calculated on the basis of local costs expressed in US dollars and are
calculated on basis of estimates of CIEMEX-WEFA of Septeffber 1990 and adjusted on the basis of
agreed criteria of free trade between Mexico and the USA for the aligrnment of price indices.
4.5.        Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$126.8 million equivalent or about 62% of total project costs.
The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on assumptions
that (a) all construction and relat6d professional services would be awarded
to local firms, (b) all furniture would be awarded to local suppliers, and (c)
75% of equipment would be awarded to foreign suppliers. They are then
adjusted ior the indirect foreign exchange component. The resulting foreign
content of each catogory of expenditure is calculated at 20% for construction,
80% for furniture and equipment, 50% for production supplies and 50% for
specialist assistance and fellowships.
B.          Recurrent Cost Implications
4.6.        When fully operational in 1996-97, the additional annual recurrent
costs of the project are estimated in constant 1989 pesos at about US$73
million. CONALEP's total recurrent expenditures for 1989 were US$87 million
or 1.6% of the federal budget for education and culture.'0 In view of the
high priority given to the proposed program, and the Government's strong
commitment to expanding and improving output of technically trained manpower,
it is expected that those expenditures would be met. For FY91, adequate
budgetary provisions have already been made for the initiation of the proposed
project.
C.          Proiect Financing and Disbursement Plan
4.7.        Financing.  The total project cost of US$204.5 million would be
financed as follows:
' In 1989, federal expenditures for education and culture amounted to
US$5,406.8 million.



34
(a)   the proposed Bank loan of US$152.0 million would finance about 74%
of total project cost equivalent to 100% estimated foreign
exchange cost and 32% of local costs; and
(b)   the Government would finance about 26% of total project cost,
equivalent to 68% of the local costs (as well as all incremental
recurrent costs, which are not included in total project cost).
To provide for early implementation of priority special studies, it is
recommended that US$8.0 million be made available for retroactive financing of
eligible expenditures incurred before loan signature but after January 20,
1991. This amount would imply commitments of about US$10.0 million in advance
contracting during the same period. At negotiations, the Government agreed
that USS8.0 million would be made available for retroactive financing for
eligible expenditures incurred before loan signature but after January 20.
1991.
4.8.        Disbursement Plan.  The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed
over a period of about five and one half years on the basis of:
(a)   100% of eligible foreign expenditures and 85Z of eligible local
expenditures for goods and equipment, excluding taxes and duties
and including cost of installation where applicable; and
(b)   100% of technical assistance costs (excluding taxes) for
specialists in administration, administrative and instructional
staff development, development of course syllabi and training
materials, design of production units, and cost reduction
measures, for internal and external staff study tours, and for
several special studies.
The estimated schedule of disbursements by calendar and fiscal years is
presented in Annex 5.3. As this would be the third technical education
project for CONALEP, the expected disbursement profile is based upon actual
performance under the second project (Loan 2559-ME). The project disbursement
schedule is a substantial improvement on the average disbursement performance
of previous education projects in other Latin American countries. This is
justified by the advance status of project preparation and the good
implementation record of the first two projects.
4.9.        In order to facilitate the project's implementation, NAFIN would
open and maintain a Special Account in US dollars. The Bank would make an
initial deposit of up to US$10 mill.ion equivalent, to cover an average of
about four months of estimated expenditures. Proceeds of the proposed loan
would be disbursed against: statements of expenditure (SOEs) for contracts
valued below US$250,000 equivalent, for which supporting documentation would
be retained by NAFIN and made available for review by Bank supervision
missions; and full documentation for contracts valued at US$250,000 equivalent
or more. The Bank would require a monthly statement of the Special Account
which would reflect transactions during the preceding month. At negotiations,
NAFIN provided assurances that it would establish a Special Account and submit
monthly statements to the Bank.



35
D.          Implementation. Procurement and Auditing
4.10.       Management.  Project coordination, implementation, supervision and
monitoring would be the responsibility of the administrative directorates of
CONALEP, which performed creditably in implementing Loans 2042-ME and 2559-ME
(Annex 2, Attachment B). The Director General would act as project director,
with the Director of Administration and Finance serving as project finance
officer. The Director of Buildings and Equipment has defined the space
planning criteria and appropriate architectural and space requirements for the
101 training centers requiring supplemental facilities; the mission has
reviewed them, and these will be given to the Administrative Committee of
Federal Programs for School Construction (CAPFCE).'1 They would prepare,
using standard designs, the building plans, specifications and bidding
documents, and the bidding and award of construction contracts in consultation
with CONALEP. The Directorate of Buildings and Equipment, in close
coordination with CAPFCE, would supervise the construction of the center;
including the installation of furniture and equipment. This Directorate, with
specialist assistance, would also be responsible for tha preparation of
furniture and equipment lists, specifications and bidding documents. However,
equipment and furniture procurement (i.e., bidding, evaluation and contract
preparation) would be the responsibility of the Directorate of Procurement.
The Directorate of Legal Affairs would assist by preparing the procurement
contracts. The Director of Procurement would also be assisted by a Customs
Clearance Officer in each of the ports of entry. Education and training
matters would be handled by the Director of Instructional Programs and Teacher
Training. No additional staffing would be required except part-time help that
would be needed during the equipment bid evaluation period. 2 No difficulty
is expected in the recruitment of qualified assistants and budgetary
arrangements have been made for this additional staffing.
4.11.       Prolect Readiness for Implementation.  Project preparation is in
an advanced state of readiness for implementation. The preliminary draft TORs
for the eleven special studies to be initiated in mid-1991 have been completed
and reviewed and approved by the mission; the detailed TORs are being prepared
with consultants' assistance. A short-list of specialists for implementation
of the studies was reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. Civil works
space factors and prototype designs are based upon CAPFCE standards, and these
works consist entirely of small additions to 101 existing training centers;
those for the 66 small contracts to be let during CY1991 are essentially
completed, and tendering is scheduled for June 1991. Equipment and furniture
lists and specifications are based largely on those used in the second
project, and tendering of these needs for 1991 civil works will be ready in
September 1991. The designs for the nine mobile units to be constructed in
A  semiautonomous  government  agency  responsible  for  all  school
construction and which has extensive operational experience.
12 Based upon the satisfactory perforaance of CONALEP in bid evaluation and
contract review under the second project, and the fact that CONALEP uses an
advanced computerized procurement program, no more than this part-time help is
expected to be required.



36
1991 are the same as those constructed in 1990, and the construction drawings
and specifications will be ready for tendering in late June 1991. Selected
study tours abroad and local training courses would be initiated in July 1991.
International institutions/agencies would be contracted to assist in the
recruitment of foreign specialists and for making the formal arrangements for
study-tours abroad. At negotiations, the Government presented, and agreement
was reached on. civil works space factors and prototype designs. and equipment
lists and sDecifications for tenders to be made during the first year of
implementation.
4.12.        Implementation Schedule.  The construction, furnishing, and
equipping of all new facilities is scheduled for completion and to be
operational by December 31, 1996 (Annex 6). This schedule is considered
reasonable, within the capacities of CONALEP and CAPFCE, and would serve as
the basis for monitoring program implementation. Expected completion dates
for the critical activities in program implementation are listed in Table 4.4.
To allow sufficient time for submission of final withdrawal applications, the
closing Date for the proposed loan would be June 30, 1997.
Table 4.4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Phases of Implementation
A       B        C       D       E        F
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995      1996
Civil Works (a)                        66       21      39       16     11       10
Advertising of Tenders                 6/91    3/92    3/93    3/94    3/95      2/96
Construction Start                    8/91     4/92    4/93    4/94    4/95      3/96
Construction Finish                   12/91    12/92   12/93   12/94   12/95     6/96
Mobile Training Units                    9       25      19      7
Designs                                6/91     3/92    3/93    3/94
Construction Start                     7/91     4/92    4/93    4/94
Construction Finish                    12/91    9/92    9/93    9/94
Furniture and Epuioment (b)
Comptetion of Lists and
Specifications                        5/91     1/92    1/93    1/94    1/95      --0--
Advertising of Tenders                 9/91     6/92    6/93    6/94    6/95      --0--
Awarding of Contracts                  11/91    8/92    8/93    8/94    8/95      --0--
Instaltation                           6/92     3/93    3/94    3/95    3/96     6/96
Technical Assistance   Selected study tours abroad and local training courses wouLd be initiated in Juty
1991. Refer to Annex for Details
Speciat Studies     The 11 studies for irptementation during 1991 would be initiated before the end of
December 1991. Refer to Annex for Details
(a) Construction contracts programmed for existing training centers.
(b) Additional furniture and equipment for the 252 already operating training centers.
4.13.        Procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the proposed project
are summarized in Table 4.5 below.
4.14.        Contracts for the following goods will be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more each and procured using
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank
guidelines: equipment, including computers and communications equipment; and
instructional materials and library books. Other contracts, including those



37
Table 4,5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditure                             ICB      LCB    Other     N.A.       Total
Cost
Civil Works                                                          -       31.6        31.6
*       (0.0)       (0.0)
Mobile Training Units
Traction Units                                   1.0      -        -        -           1.0
(1.0)    -        -         -          (1.0)
Trailor Construction MateriaLs                   3.7      -                 1.0         4.7
(3.7)                      (0.0)       (3.7)
Furniture                                          -                 -        0.4         0.4
-   -   -        (0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment                                         54.5      6.6      4.5      -          65.6
(54.5)   (6.0)   (4.0)                 (64.5)
Instructional Materials and Library Books         25.1    10.8      4.0       2.2        42.1
(25.1)   (9.6)   (3.8)    (0.0)        (38.5)
Production Suppties                                -        -                14.8        14.8
-  -    *        (0.0)       (0.0)
Technical Assistance
Consultents                                      -        -       35.9                 35.9
-       -      (35.9)      -         (35.9)
Study Tours                                      -        -        2.8       -          2.8
(2.8)                (2.8)
Special StudIes                                  -        -        5.6      -           5.6
-       -       (5.6)      -          (5.6)
TOTAL COST INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                84.3    17.4    52.8       50.0       204.5
(84.3)  (15.6)  (52.1)    (0.0)       (152.0)
M: FIgures in parentheses ( ) are the respective amounts to be disbursed fran loan funds.
for materials for construction of the 60 mobile training units and traction
units for the mobile training units will also be procured under ICB. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids for equipment during ICB
evaluation, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the prevailing tariff or 151 of CIF costs of imported goods,
whichever is lower.



38
4.15.       The Bank has reviewed and found acceptable local procurement
procedures. These LCB procedures would be used for the procurement of:
instructional materials and library books in packages valued at less than
US$250,000, but more than US$35,000, up to an aggregate value of US$10.8
million; and equipment in packages valued at less than US$250,000, but more
than US$25,000, up to an aggregate value of US$6.6 million.
4.16.       Procurement on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, would be permitted for
the following: instructional materials and library books in bid packages
estimated to cost less than US$35,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$4.0 million; and equipment in bid packages estimated to cost less than
US$25,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$4.5 million.
4.17.       The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance would be consistent with the August 1981 Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agencv. Standard contracts, letters of invitation, terms of
reference and contract forms, would be used for consultants for curriculum
development studies. Contracts for technical assistance associated with the
Special Studies would be reviewed in accordance with paras. 6.1 and 6.2.
4.18.       Standard bidding documents for Mexico, agreed upon by the Mexican
authorities and the Bank in Cuernavaca in April 1990, would be used. All ICB
contracts and the first two LCB contracts would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. All other procurement documentation would be subject to selective
ex-post review; CONALEP would retain documentation for these contracts for
periodic supervision by Bank staff.
4.19.       Auditing.  All project accounts, including the Special Account,
financial statements, and statements of expenditures relevant to the project,
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor's report and the certified copies of all relevant financial statements
would be sent to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal
year. Audit reports required for the recently completed project have been
satisfactory and submitted on time.
E.          Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20.       Monitorinz.  Efficient monitoring and careful supervision of
project implementation is essential. Monitoring and evaluation of training
processes and implementation progress of the project are described in Annex 7.
As civil works would be the responsibility of CAPFCE, its architects would
supervise the design and construction of all buildings; CONALEP's architects
would closely monitor progress on both design and construction. Equipment and
furniture procurement would be the immediate responsibility of the Directorate
of Procurement, but installation would be the responsibility of the
Directorate of Buildings and Equipment. However, installation of heavy and
sophisticated equipment or equipment in large quantities would be included in
the contract for the equipment supply. A well-designed checklist for use in



39
monitoring implementation of the construction and/or furnishing and equipping
of each institution has been developed and is in use by CONALEP. At
negotiations, the Government presented. and agreement was reached on. final
monitoring and evaluation targets.
4.21.       Evaluation.  The Directorate of Administration would coordinate
the activitios of the Directorates of Student Evaluation and Certification,
Building and Equipment, Procurement, Planning, and Operations and Instruction
in the evaluation of project implementation and its impact on the training
system and socioeconomic development. This executive coordinating group would
be assisted and advised by the industrial advisory committees. The results
clearly show that, under the previous projects, CONALEP's National Directorate
of Evaluation and Certification developed an effective system for student
evaluation, certification and placement.
4.22.       Annual and Mid-Term Reviews.  At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would, with Bank assistance, conduct annual
re-iews of proiect implementation during the preceding year and implementation
glans for the next year. on the basis of the agreed monitorinx and evaluation
targets, including capital and recurrent budgets, cost-recovery activities,
and special studies and their results. At negotiations, the Government also
provided assurances that it would conduct an in-depth mid-term review, with
prior Bank approval of terms of reference, of the effectiveness of all CONALEP
programs. The review would focus primarily on progress being made in
implementation of the recommendations and action plans resulting from the
priority studies on improving: cost recovery/sharing of training with
industry and the related cost accounting system; completion rates of pre-
service training programs; the graduate tracer system; and the quality and
effectiveness of administrative services activities. It would also review the
implementation and outcomes of such strategic programs as the maintenance
system, production/training, self-employment training, mobile training in
marginal areas, training programs in the priority sectors of maquiladoras and
tourism, food production and pond fish farming training, and the operations of
industrial committees and advisory boards. The methodologies required in
carrying out the mid-term review will be set forth clearly in the above
mentioned terms of reference; such methodologies will, where applicable,
include comparisons with a satisfactory comparator group. At negotiations.
the Government provided assurances that results of CONALEP's mid-term review
wolld be submitted to the Bank for review and comment by March 31. 1994; and
that action Plans. satisfactory to the Bank. based on the results of this mid-
term review, would be prepared, and implementation of such plana begun. by
June 30. 1994. The Government is aware of the possibility that a need for
project modifications may be indicated as a result of the mid-term review and
that the action plans should detail such modifications. The monitoring
targets (Annex 7) would also serve as a basis for the annual and mid-term
reviews.



40
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.           Benefits
5.1.         The project would:  (a) produce skilled manpower and small
business services required for the reotructured economy to sustain and
strengthen growth, with particular emphasis on flexibility in response to the
labor market needs in growth sectors, and in disadvantaged areas and
populations; when the project is fully implemented in 1996-97, the expected
annual output from *ll programs combined is projected to be some 180,000
trainees (Table 5.2); (b) improve the quality of all instruction to meet the
rapidly changing levels of technology in the workplace; (c) make CONALEP's
training more efficient and ensure its operational and financial
sustainability through better links with enterprises and more diversified
financing mechanisms; and (d) contribute to the development, in the medium
term, of a more rational and efficient education and training system in
Mexico, thus helping to increase the productivity and international
competitiveness of the Mexican labor force.
5.2.         Enrollments and Outputs of CONALEP System.  When the project is
fully implemented in 1996-97 the expected enrollments and outputs of the
CONALEP System are projected to be more than doubled. Table 5.1 shows
expected enrollments by geographical region; Table 5.2 shows expected
enrollments and outputs by types of program and field of study.
TABLE S.1 REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF ALL CONALEP TRAINING CENTERS AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS
(when fully operational in 1996-97)
Training Centers
Region                     States                             Number        Enrollments
1.  North-west:            Baja California, Baja California      34            40,000
Sur, Nayarit, Slnaloa, Sonora.
11.  North:                Coahulta, Chihuahua, Durango, Nuevo Leon.   25      31,000
III. Gulf of Mexico:       Tamaulipas, Veracruz.                 19            28,000
[V.  Contral-Morth:        Aguascalientes, San Lufs Potosf,      10            15,000
Zacatecas.
V.  Contral-West:          Collim, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Nlchoacan.  38         54,000
VI.  Contral:              Hidalgo, Morelos, Puebla, Tlaxcala    20            26,000
Queretaro.
VII. Valley of Mexico:     Distrito Federal, Estado de Mexico.   67           154,000
VIII. South and South East:    Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero, Ooxaco,  37        52.000
Quintana Roo, Tabasco, Yucatan.
TOTALS                                                   250           400,000
Note:  Enrollments include regular, upgrading, and special programs.



41
TABLE 5.2 PROJECTED ANNUAL ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS BY MAJOR FIELDS OF STUDY AND TYPES OF PROGRAMS
(When Fully Operational in 1996/97)
Outouts by Type of Proaram
lds of Study    Enrollments  Pre-Service         In-Service              Re-Training
Reaular(a)    Moduler(b)  Uograding(c)   Probecat(d)  Mobite(e)
Agriculture         15,500       500            500        1,800                     800
Fisheries          16,500        500            500        1,400                     800
Services           130,000     20,000         15,000      12,000                   1,800
Industrial        186,000      22,000         19,000      43,000                   1,600
Health             22,000       3,500          2,500       2,500                     800
Tourism            30.000     3.500            2.500       6.500                       -
TOTAL              400,000     50,000         40,000      67,200         17,500    5,800
Increases over
1990/91      161,000      9,600         40,000      43,200              0    3,900
(67X)      (24%)             -        (184%)            oX        -
Completion Rate         -         80%           80X          90X            90X      90X
a)    Technician outputs from full-time day programs.
b)    Employed workers in evening class technician programs.
c)    Upgrading programs, day and evening, for employed skilled workers.
d)    Contract trainees from Kanpower Training Project (Ln. 2876-ME) in short-course semi-skilled worker
training program.
e)    Re-training of adults in marginal areas, using mobile training units and community provided
infrastructure, where fixed training centers are not availabLe and are not currently feasible.
5.3.         Imtrovina the Emplovability of Women.  About 40% (160,000) of
CONALEP's projected enrollments, when the proposed CONALEP III project is
fully operational in 1996-97, is expected to be made up of women. This is
about the same percentage existing at the end of the 1989-90 academic year.
CONALEP's expansion of short, intensive and practical "hands-on" training
programs for marginal populations would increase the actual numbers of
training opportunities for women at lower income levels. This expansion would
be largely accomplished through the use of mobile training units, of which 60
would be constructed under the project (para. 3.13).
B.           Risks
5.4.         There are no unusual risks associated with the project, except
that, with regard to mobile training for marginal populations and the food
production and pond fish farming training programs; there is a potential risk
that the ultimate benefits to the targeted marginal rural populations could be
minimal due to technical, credit, and marketing risks despite Government
assurances that these training programs would be supported by the planned
production credit through PRONASOL, marketing and training specialists. As to
the risk of reduced federal financial support for CONALEP in case of new
budgetary crisis, such risk would be minimized through early steps to broaden
CONALEP's resources mobilization base by setting targets for cost recovery and
strengthening CONALEP's relationship with the industrial and business
community. The project is unlikely to have significant environmental impacts.



42
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1         During negotiations the Government:
a)    presented, and agreement was reached on, draft terms of reference
for studies on improving (i) CONALEP's cost accounting system and
cost recovery criteria and procedures, (ii) completion rates of
the pre-service regular training program and (iii) the graduate
tracer system; and provided assurances that these studies,
including data )athering, would be initiated within six months of
loan effectiveness, completed by March 31, 1993, and that action
plans on the basis of the results of the studies would be
prepared, satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 1993 (paras. 3.21
and 3.22);
b)    presented, and agreement was reached on, draft terms of reference
for all remaining studies to be carried out under the project
(para. 3.4);
c)    provided assurances that seven of the eleven studies would be
initiated during the twelve months following loan effectiveness
and be completed by the date specified in the agreed terms of
reference, to be available by the time of the mid-term reriew of
the project, and for Bank review and comment; and that action
plans, satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared within six
months of the completion of the studies to implement the studies'
recommendations (para. 3.4);
d)    provided assurances that CONALEP would prepare, satisfactory to
the Bank, a plan to take remedial actions on about 50 high unit
cost training centers by June 30, 1992 (para. 3.21);
e)    provided assurances that CONALEP would increase its overall cost
recovery receipts at an annual rate satisfactory to the Bank so
that, by the end of calendar year 1996, such rr-eipts will be
equivalent to 20% of CONALEP's recurrent costs (para. 3.21);
f)    presented, and agreement was reached on, draft operational manuals
for: (a) the Technological Development and Assistance Centers
(para. 3.8); (b) the mobile training units (para. 3.13); and (c)
the maintenance services and equipment production programs (para.
3.19);
g)    agreed that US$8.0 million would be made available for retroactive
financing of eligible expenditures incurred before loan signature
but after January 20, 1991 (para. 4.7);
h)    provided assurances that it would establish a Special Account and
submit monthly statements to the Bank (para. 4.9);



43
i)    presented, and agreement was reached on, civil wor}.s space factors
and prototype designs, and equipment lists and specifications for
tenders to be made during the first year of implementation (para.
4.11);
J)    presented, and agreement was reached on, final monitoring and
evaluation targets (para. 4.20);
k)    provided assurances that it would, with Bank assistaace, conduct
annual reviews of project implementation during the preceding year
and implementation plans for the next year on the basis of the
agreed monitoring and evaluation targets (para. 4.22); and
1)    provided assurances that it would conduct an in-depth mid-term
review, based on the agreed monitoring targets, of the results of
the studies on effectiveness, efficiency, and cost recovery of
CONALEP's programs, and implementation of strategic programs such
as those mentioned in (f) above, with the mid-term review results
to be submitted to the Bank for its review and comment by March
31, 1994, and action plans satisfactory to the Bank to be prepared
and initiated by June 30, 1994 (para. 4.22).
6.2.        As conditions of effectiveness, Government would:
a)    prepare and submit for Bank approval final terms of reference,
draft contracts for the consultants required, and a short list of
consultants to be hired for the studies on cost accounting and
cost recovery systems (para. 3.21), completion rates of the pre-
service regular training program and the graduate tracer system
(para. 3.22);
b)    prepare and submit to the Bank final terms of reference for all
remaining studies to be carried out under the project (para. 3.4);
c)    provide evidence that the operational manuals for the
Technological Development and Assistance Centers (para. 3.8),
mobile training units (para. 3.13), and maintenance service and
equipment production programs (para. 3.19) have been formally
adopted by CONALEP and are ready for use;
d)    prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen
the advisory committee system at the state and national levels for
the maquiladora and tourism sectors (paras. 3.10 and 3.11);
e)    establish cost recovery/sharing and related accounting criteria
and policies for the maquiladora and tourism sectors (paras. 3.10
and 3.11); and
f)    establish an advisory committee system for the food production and
pond fish farming training programs (para. 3.15).



44
6.S.        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$152.0 million equivalent to
the United Mexican States, to be repaid over a period of 17 years, including 5
years of grace.
KMy 31, 1991



Annex 1
UNITED MEXICAN STATES                                      Page 1 of 1
Third Technical Training Project
Srucmt  of the Educaton and Trainiig SVsmne
UNIVIRSTtSllS
POLUTeCHNICAL INSTiTUTRS              __ _
TEACHER rpAINING                          STAP
OUCATI INOIJSTRIAL TRAINING cENAENS
CUCATA  AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CgNTERS                                                                                   20HUCA-ION
COTI    s,Nr cOgSS IN INOUSTIAL                  ACA.GMIC
CO   RAINING       76WNE
NI""la SCHOOLS PoR H  CINE
ANO HUMANITIES                            e
CACt  CENTRSE POR SCIENTIFIC ANO D0G9E
TECHNOLOGICAL STUDIES
GEIA    CEmNTR PoR STUDIES in
AGRICULTUREILIVESTOCK                                                                                           DrCOh
CECYTEM CNTERS Pon STUOIES IN                   tOt SICILLED LASO _
OCINGORAP4y AMC MARITIME                  GYIAN
TTCFtt40L001OL TUOIU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    MDOILVO
CETA
CE?
CCCATO       GONA LIP
-0tit UMTUtrtUtIJrE - >CIC  ce                      ,                        rION
actw  strettget UOUII                    {         -                                  _       SEMIE SKLLEDR
OC  hWtIt4t   I 4tAtiZ INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY                                              LAO       --
THT
IgI                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUAIOOLE
I  i  I  .   I,N  EHOLG                                                                           DCTO
*  I  I  WORKERS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           L
I       t                                                                          UNSISKIL lED   
ACADEMICLAO
IiII       I111s                                        
WRADE          ' 12  31  16,  S   7  S1  S   tO 1ll 12               14 is  is  I?  is III20
AG  t   iIg 216t62? I122    232 2  .21  26
I RE. I   FRIMAY LEVEL       I   LOWERm         UFERM          HMGHIIR       IPOST-  I             L.AGOR   I     ,-.- - f ATOl.
SCHOOL     MtDDLE                               MIDDLE         EDUCATION      ORAOUATE             FORCE            sysUNt
EDUCATION    EDUCATION
AND TRAINING AND TRAINING
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O1   Es,,I'' -I261



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
THE CONALEP TECHNICAL TRAINING SYSTEM
Introduction
1.     In 1978, the President of the Republic issued a decree creatng a
decentralized, semi-autonomous public agency, CONALEP. The Government
requested and received two World Bank loans (Loan 2042-ME and Loan 2559-ME)
for the rapid development of the system. Phase I involved creating the
program, testing its major components and initiating its development in 130
training centers with a 110,000 capacity. Phase II consisted of an increase
in the capacity of the CONALEP System to 252 centers with 239,000 total
enrollments and adjustments in institutional, administrative and training
aspects of the program. Phase I and Phase II have been so successful that the
new Government, inaugurated on December 1988, placed a high priority on the
development of Phase III and targeted CONALEP, in 1996-97, for enrollments of
400,000 students and annual outputs of about 50,000 from regular day class
programs and 40,000 from modular evening class programs. It would also
upgrade the skills of about 90,000 workers annually (Table 1).
PROJECTED ANNUAL ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS BY MAJOR FIELDS OF STUDY AND TYPES OF PROGRAMS
(When Fully OperationaL in 1996/97)
Outputs by TWoe of Program
Fields of Study      Enrollments  Pre-Service             In-Service                Re-Training
ReguLar(a)      Modular(b)  Uogradirg(c)   Probecat(d)   MobiLe(e)
Agriculture           15,500          500             500         1,800                        800
Fisheries             16,500         500              500         1,400                        800
Services             130,000       20,000          15,000        12,000                      1,800
Industrial           186,000       22,000          19,000        43,000                      1,600
HeaLth                22,000        3,500           2,500         2,500                        800
Tourism               30.000        3,500           2.500         6.500                          -
TOTAL                400,000       50,000          40,000        67,200           17,500     5,800
Increases over
1990/91       161,000        9,600           40,000        43,200               0     3,900
(67X)       (24%)                -        (184%)              0%          -
Completion Rate            -          80%             80%           90%              90%       90%
a)     Technician outputs from fult-time day programs.
b)     Er- 7yed workers In evening class technician programs.
c)     Upgrading programs, day and evening, for effployed skilled workers.
d)     Contract trainees from Manpower Training Project (Ln. 2876-ME) in short-course semi-skilled worker
training program.
e)     Re-training of adults in marginal areas, using mobile training units and community provided
infrastructure, where fixed training centers are not available and are not currently feasible.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
2.    Administration.  (Attachment B).  The CONALEP training program is
administrated at both central and local levels. At the central level, the
Board of Governors determines policy criteria. This Board is comprised of
seven business and industrial leaders who are appointed by the Minister of
Education to serve staggered terms. The President of the Republic appoints
the General Director of CONALEP, who also chairs the Board. The General
Director, who is the chief administrative officer of CONALEP, can serve a
maximum of two periods of four years each, and is assisted by eight
departmental directors who are in charge of planning, academic operations and
teacher training, buildings and equipment, evaluation and certification,
admiristration and finance, legal affairs, promotion and external relations,
and equipment procurement. Each directorate, with minor exceptions, is well
staffed with qualified and experienced staff and support personnel.
3.    At the local level, the director of each training center is the chief
administrative office. An academic/training committee comprised of local and
regional business and industrial personnel and representatives of
instructional staff and students, advises the director on training matters,
and an industrial relations committee comprised of business and industrial
managers advises on relations and cooperative activities with the private and
public sector enterprises and associations. Each center's director is
assisted by coordinators of training programs and administrative services.
4.    The CONALEP program is well publicized through radio, television, and
newspapers at national and local levels, and through high quality brochures.
This promotion campaign has been successfully directed towards business,
industry, parents, potential students and the general public. It emphasizes
the important role of skilled workers and technicians in economic and social
development, describes the CONALEP training program (including details of
selected courses), employment opportunities, the job placement system, and
where and how to go about enrolling. It is estimated that about 80% of
CONALEP's students are recruited as a result of this multimedia campaign. The
substantial assistance CONALEP receives from business and industry (about US
$12.9 million in 1990) also indicates the success of this innovative procedure
for improving the public image of technical training.
5.    Training Programs and Enrollments.  CONALEP has developed 97 regular
technician training programs, primarily for the manufacturing and services
sectors. These programs, which have a duration of three years, are carried
out in centers dispersed throughout the country. The enrollment capacity,
programs of study and location of centers were determined on the basis of
national, regional and local development plans and Bank agreed criteria.
Enrollment is open to qualified students who have completed grade 9. Regular
training programs operate at the centers in two daily shifts of six hours per
week. The hours of 13:00 to 16:00 are normally reserved for upgrading
programs. The evening shift and Saturdays are used for either program when
demand exceeds regular capacity. The upgrading program is open to employed



Annex 
Page 3 of 5
capacity in regular and upgrading programs, both day and evening shifts, totals
about 239,000 trainees. Women have made up 37%-40% of total enrollments during
the past four years (1987-1990).
6.    Curricula. Experienced subject-matter specialists, assisted by specialists
from business and industry, develop all curricula and course syllabi.   In
addition to the 97 specific training programs for regular students that have been
developed in five broad fields with supporting curricula and course materials,
there are another 82 training programs, ranging form 40-250 houre each, for
upgrading the skills of the existing workforce. Instructors and the advisory
members from local industry adapt the basic course syllabi to special local
conditions. In general, program time is distributed 20% for general theory, 20Z
for technical theory and 601 for technical practice.
7.    Instructor  Characteristics  and  PreDaration.    Experienced  and  fully
qualified instructors teach all general subjects.  Technicians and practical
engineers, having at least five years of industrial experience, are recruited on
a part-time basis (10-14 hours/week) to teach the technical theory and technical
practice classes. They receive a significantly higher hourly wage than those who
teach in other programs under the Secretariat of Education. Local industry has
cooperated by making industrially qualified instructors available. Preparation
in instructional methodology of these instructors is carried out by CONALEP
through its own teacher training unit. Qualified and experienced professional
teacher trainers comprise the training unit and are assisted by qualified part-
time trainers.
8.    The instructor training program consists of both regularly scheduled short
pre-service methodology courses and ad hoc in-service courses.   In special
instances, programmed learning courses are offered by correspondence. The pre-
service courses consist of 54 hours of pedagogical preparation, including 14
hours of practice teaching.   They are conducted either in CONALEP's central
facilities or, at the regional level, in local training centers and in local
university teacher training centers. The minimum in-service training consists
of 64 hours of human relations, instructional methodology, modular curriculum
preparation, and shop-work organization and management. Additional in-service
course work of up to 130 hours is provided for upgrading specialized technical
skills. The curricula and course syllabi for the instructor training courses
have been developed according to modern pedagogical practice, and except for
adapting them to special local requirements, are ready for the instructors' use;
a fact which aids in the recruitment of qualified instructors. About 12,800
instructors were employed during 1990-91 in the 252 training centers.
9.    ODerational Performance Evaluation.  Student and instructor evaluation and
feedback are joint functions of the local training centers and the National
Directorate of Evaluation and Certification. This directorate has well-qualified
staff consisting of professionals and an adequate number of support personnel.



Annox 2
Page 4 of 5
Ic has developed a series of generally well-designed and executed instruments for
evaluating instructor and student performance. However, it is planned that these
will be further improved under CONALEP III. Evaluation of instructors includes
formal self-evaluation, as well as evaluation by both students and supervisors.
The National Directorate also assists the local centers in the proper use and
evaluation of the various instruments and processes, and in integrating the
changes suggested by feedback into the curricula and the teaching/learning
rocess.   The results of these assessments  are given not only to local
instructors, but also to the subject-matter specialists at the national level,
so the curricula, course syllabi, and overall performance may be improved in the
centers. A large proportion of CONALEP applicants have finished their lower-
middle level studies. In view of this, all new regular students are tested and,
if required, undergo four weeks of remedial studies before the regular term
begins.  This has s.gnificantly reduced the high level of dropouts that were
typical during CONALEP's early years of operation. However, this early dropout
rate remains a problem, and will be addressed under the new project.
10.   Placement and Follow-up of Graduates.   Each training center, with the
assistance of its local industrial advisory committee and its industrial
relations committee, has the responsibility of providing job placement and of
assessing the relevance of training as measured by job performance.   Job
placement within three months of graduation of regular students is 622.   In a
follow-up study of employer satisfaction, 922 of employers rated the quality of
CONALEP graduates as "good or excellent". After a short period of on-the-job
orientation and training, graduates are expected to be able to perform as medium
level skilled workers or as lower or middle level techniciano. Most of them have
been able to advance to the level of highly skilled worker and medium level
technician. Because recruitment of skilled labor is of critical importance for
industry,  local  industrial  advisory  committees  diligently  assist  in  the
development of a strong placement and follow-up system at the local level.  The
National Directorate of Evaluation and Certification provides advice and the
necessary instruments for the systematic evaluation of graduate placement and
performance at the local level, and coordinates the national program (Attachment
A).
Financinx.
11.   The Federal Government allocation for the recurrent expenditures of CONALEP
durirg 1990 was Mex $243,436 million (US $85.1 million), or about 1.6Z of the
total budget of the Secretariat of Education and Culture. In addition to federal
funds, CONALEP ie empowered to sign contracts and to receive contributions from
the productive sector. CONALEP has made very good use of this capability, making
contractual agreements with state governments, other branches of the federal
government, and various industries. Tctal contributions and contracts in 1990
amounted to an equivalent of Mex $37,920 million (US $12.9 million). Most of
these contributions were in kind: i.e., rent free (building and equipment) or
donated buildings and specialized equipment. Finally CONALEP's students also pay
tuition and may commit themselves to a deferred payment plan upon graduation and



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
branches of the federal government, and various industries. Total
contributions and contracts in 1990 amounted to an equivalent of Mex $37,920
million (US $12.9 million). Most of these contributions were in kind: i.e.,
rent free (building and equipment) or donated buildings and specialized
equipment. Finally CONALEP's students also pay tuition and may commit
themselves to a deferred payment plan upon graduation and employment. Student
revenues amounted to Mex $12,095 million (about US $4.2 million) in 1990. In
addition to the financial effect, these payments and commitments seem to have
a positive motivational effect on students. In some cases, employers pay
CONALEP the deferred tuition. The National Directorate of Financing and
Administration is currently reviewing CONALEP's long term policy regarding
tuition fees.



Annex 2
Attachment A
(Page 1 of 5)
Job Placement of CONALEP Graduates
(1989/1990)
No. of Graduates
No. of Graduates  Emploved in 3 months             %
(in thousands)      (in thousands)
Pre-service program
3 year program                      33.2               20.7               62.3
1 year program                       7.2                7.2              100.0
SUB TOTAL                    40.4                27.9               69.1
In-service-Program
Retraining of unemployed            52.3               41.9               80.1
Upgrading of employed                9.0                9.0              100.0
SUB TOTAL                    61.3                50.9               83.0
TOTAL                        101.7               78.8               77.5



CONALEP: Est ios de Seguimiento
Egresados Contratados anfes de 3 meses
JOB PICD   WITHIN 3 MONTH
-      PROCRAMA REGULAR         -
REGULAR PROGRAM
35
3 0   -----------
25
c' 20
o5....   ~ ~~~ ~~~ ........ ...... ...._                               _...................
n:1X 0 ----E------1
1990             1989              1988              1987
0 5
|ME Egresados              Contratados Inm.                   V  5
rpu1sMPLYED IN I MONTHS



CONALEP: Estu  os de Seguimiento
UP STUDIES
Egresados que Trabaian su Especialidad
GRADUAKTES; WORMOGDJIED OF Mo
PROCIRAMA REGULAR
REGULAR FRORMM
35
30   -
25 -                                            _ _
00-1
c'u 20
1 990           1 989           1 988          1987           XIt
I                       IEqrsdos  T  su especialidad  T T fuera espec.
XDUTM    -RFIEL OF TRAIIN           OUrSIE O   n



Annex 2
Attachment A
(Page 4 of 5)
CONALEP: Nivel Ingresos de Egresados
xSM   1987   1988   1989   1990
0.5   4.7   3.7   4.1   3.6
1.0  25.7  26.2  24.5  20.7
1.5  37.5  36.4  35.7  33.5
2.0  17.6  19.7  20.3  20.9
2.5  10.8  10.5  12.5  18.6
SampleChek  96.3  96.5  97.1  97.2
Sum Prodct 146.5  148.3  152.0  161.0
W Average  1.521  1.537  1.565  1.656
Fuente: CONALEP - Evaluacion y Estudios de Seguirniento.
CONALEP: Nivel Promedio de Ingresos
1.8
1.7-
1.8 
1.5-
0. -_
I.7-
1.2-_    _||
0.9 -
60.8 
0.4
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.62                     =l
0                                              4
1987     1988      19891990



Ingresos Comparativos por N. Educativo
EARNINGS                    cQNS             BY       I 1 EUCATION LEVEIS
[mil tfragtadares por nivel]
PER THOUSAND WORKERS PER LEVEL OF EDUCATION
350 -
300---
3 0                                  _-___ _..___._.__.______
2 5 0 -< 
o
200
0 150--
5 0                                                  ---_ _   _ _ __ _   _ _-- ---- -
No Ing  .2 5 SM    .5 SM      SM      up2 SM   up3 SM   up5 SM  up 1 0 SM  1 0 +SM
SM = Salario Minimo
OFICIAL MIN1M SALARY UNITS                      
0
-I-  Prim     3K  Secund -          Prepar
Primary     Lower Secondary Upper Secondary
x   Tecnico -     Univ
Technician     University



Annex 2
UNIT D MEXICAN STATES                                     Attachment  B
THIRD  TECINICAL TRAINING PROJECT                                     ag    1o      2
CONALEP Orgnizaton                                         (Page  1  of  2)
A.  noA L Lvs VO0RO|L
GOVINNO  r                  C"l, 
I XTEtNAL       __ __ _
PNOUOTON AN  DIRITOAT3 OVP.ATO OPO                                                      AIPATNM! O
O       1-C op                                           INTERNAOl.
*TIO     ..        I ON             1        .   . OP           .1        1      I....  I          .I  - I          x
l  DUSTRIA  | ~  GL"   ^t  4p                     * |   Ol"|=O         |   |   QOtRATIONS A |D    ADM  NIShArTION   | JLON A A  | POCTRIAE  OT
UNKAOU  LAGAL 04ATTIM     No           iNm~~ucI1Ct       ANOD FINANCII     Uouip9dNT
OCAL LML
OIRl=ORS 0F          ~~AOV150RY
CINTfRS                   COMITTIFT
__  -         I N
A                           |IrnVManS  



ORGANIZATION CHART OF CONALEP
ESTRUCTURA ORGANICA DEL CONALEP
FOR TRAINING CENTERS
EN PLANTELES
comuio CO   1DIRECToR OF CENTER
|CO"AInvo    t          D R E ECC Io N.
Adviaory Committee
coun D
Industrial Relations Coimittee
~DPRTAMENTO OE        I DOEPARTAMENT DE              DEUA ENTO DE              DEPARrAUE.T DE
IN18TRAC        | ~~~SE8MO  ESCLRS               ACTIVIDADES               S ERIIO-
Aftiinis  ril"zANZAS                                          TECMOI.OGIC^   IACADEROODS
Adminis    lonl   nancae    St  en eSrv ce s             Tech:} noloe   Department   Aade rec I Affairs
_LUrABos                 v  ECOL^I                 TRO TALLERES V               ARA POa   R 
ESCOLAR~             EAOCUTORIOS   |           ESIDAaD  |
Personnel            Registrars Office          Supervision: Shops/Labs   Dept. Heads
f 7F    I =E               EXTIENSION                  11AA TERIM11'O  IF|IE                |
ruuNc"" |     | ~~~EDCATIVA  JILDE ECowPO                          Lf ADblult  |M
Accounting          Extension Bducation         Equipment Maintenance   -Library and
_-                    Audio Visual Aids
_  ES                _ EVALUation V                   UCTS
Materials Supy         and FoUow-Up               Technical Training
CI;



Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Special Studies
Terms of Reference for Special Studies
1.    These Preliminary Terms of Reference are for the eleven Special Studies
which are to be initiated in CY1991. The final draft Terms of Reference for
the Studies, and for the specialists required, are to be presented to the Bank
for review, discussion and agreement during negotiations.
Plan of Work
2.    The first phase of the plan of work consists of the preliminary terms of
reference for the execution of the eleven special studies to be carried out by
CONALEP during the first year of implementation of the CONALEP III project.
These preliminary TORs are presented herein. The second phase of work
consists of the preparation, by CONALEP's senior staff members and qualified
specialists as may be required, of the detailed TOR for each of the studies.
As stated above, these final draft TORe would be presented to the Bank for
review, discussion and agreement during negotiations. The third phase would
be initiated promptly after the 9--eement of the Bank had been obtained for
the final draft TOR. The third phase would consist of the preparation and
presentation to the Bank, for review and agreement, of the CV's of a short-
list of qualified consultants to conduct each of the studies. The fourth
phase would consist of the recruitment and contracting of the consultant teams
to conduct each of the studies. The fifth phase would be for the consultant
teams, with the coordination of the appropriate directorates of CONALEP's
central administration, to conduct the studies in accordance with the
respective TORs and to prepare the draft reports for discussion with pertinent
senior staff and administrators of CONALEP, and with key economic sector
leaders, and to prepare tne final reports.
3.    Within 60 days of the conclusion of each of the studies, CONALEP would
send to the Bank for its review a copy of the "conclusions and
recommendations" and a short "sa-mary" of each of the studies.
4.    The computerization of data and analysis of each of the studies would be
done in such a manner as to facilitate the ease of updating the studies from
time to time with the most recent data and information.
5.    The sixth and final phase would be the initiation of implementation of
key recommendations and a follow-up of observed results.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
Preliminary Terms of Reference (Outline)
A.    Labor Market Demand for Technicians
Obiective of Study. The central objective of the study is to obtain the
required information to permit a more balanced planning and
implementation of training programs which will more effectively and
efficiently meet the skilled worker and middle level technician needs of
priority sectors of the economy.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to November 1991.
Plan of Action: (a) Collection, recording and analyzing of data; (b)
estimation of employment by occupational areas for skilled workers and
middle level technicians levels; (c) determining the levels of skills
requirements of skilled workers and middle level technicians by
occupational areas; and development of the skills profiles of skilled
workers and middle level technicians in the priority sectors.
B.    Improve Training Articulation Between CONALEP and the Maquiladora Sector
Obiective of Study. The central objective of this study is to
determine specific areas of activAty, within the productive system of
maquiladora sector enterprises, with which CONALEP can assist in jointly
improving the quality of training "for" and "in" the workplace.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to April 1992.
Plan of Action: (a) In-depth review of available documentation; (b)
design of study, pilot testing and revision; (c) carrying out of field
work through visits, interviews and questionnaires; (d) processing of
field data and other information obtained from maquiladora enterprises
and associations; (e) preparation of the final report and
recommendations.
C.    Improve Training Articulation Between CONALEP and the Tourism Sector
Obiective of Study. The central objective of this study is, as a
priority action, to jointly e:plore with sectoral enterprises and
associations specific areas of activity within the sector with which
CONALEP and the respective enterprises can cooperate in improving the
quality of training "for" and "in" thd work place, including developmernt
of certain new specializations.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to May 1992.
Plan of Action. (a) In-depth review of available documentation; (b)
design of study, pilot testing and revision; (c) carrying out of field
work through visits, interviews and questionnaires; (d) processing of
field data and other information obtained from tourism enterprises,
associations and both internal and external tour agencies; (e)
preparation of the final report and recommendations.
D.    Training Needs of Marginal PoRulations and Areas
Objective of Study. To define feasible training activities, modes of
training and priority target groups with which CONALEP can, with



Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
significant participation of national and state official agencies and
local neighborhood groups, jointly plan and deliver training programs
for the re-training of adults of marginal populations. Emphasis would
be on areas where fixed training centers are neither available nor
feasible.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to April 1992.
Plan of Action. (a) In-depth review of pertinent documentation of
relevant experiences of CONALEP and other groups in the use of mobile
training units and other non-traditional modes of training delivery; (b)
field study to determine training needs, feasible modes of training
delivery, and including possible usage of various types of local public
and private infrastructure in the "practical" aspects of training
delivery, and cost-recovery; (c) processing of field data and
information; and (d) preparation of final report and recommendations.
a-,   Imorovina Student Recruitment in Regular Technical Programs
Obiective of Stuev. To improve the recruitment of appropriately
qualified and motivated trainees into the first year of the regular
technical level programs.
Implementation Period. December 1991 to March 1993.
Plan of Action. (a) Defining the methodology for analyzing the
strengths and weaknesses in the perceived image of CONALEP's training
programs as held by students in the last semester of the lower secondary
schools; (bj defining the methodology for determining the profile of the
training/further study aspirations of last-year students in the lower
secondary school system who are potential candidates for first year
entry into the CONALEP system; (c) carry out the field study to
determine the parameters of the perceived image of CONALEP and analyze
them from the points of cause and effect on the image; (d) carry out the
field study on the profile of aspirations of potential entrants; (e)
processing and analyzing of data and information of both sub-studies for
actions at the central and local training center administrative levels;
and (f) preparation of report findings and recommendations for actions
at the central and training center administrative levels.
F.    ImDroving Student Retention
Obiective of Study. To identify and define causes for the high level of
student dropouts, especially during the first semester of pre-service
training, and develop an action plan to reduce the dropout rate and
increase the completion rate of trainees.
Implementation Period. December 1991 to March 1993.
Focus of Study. (a) trainee selection processes and criteria; (b)
process and academic standards of orientation sessions in comparison
with trainees' backgrounds; (c) trainees' prP'Rrences and commitments
regarding further studies and entering the labor force; (d) geographical
locations of the centers and training specializations of the trainees;
(e) peculiarities of the teaching forces, provision of teaching
materials in the center.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
Plan of Action. (a) In-depth review of documentation; (b) design of
study, pilot testing and revision; (c) carrying out field work through
appropriate avenues of activity; (d) processing of data and relevant
information collected from field work; (e) preparation of report and
recommendations for action at both central antd training center levels.
G.    Imioroving Graduate Tracer Slstem
Obiectives of Study. To evaluate the effectiveness of CONALEP training
programs on a broader basis and improve the current practice of tracer
study system in order to feed back to the respective curriculum
specialists, instructors and administrators for improved trainee
selection, curricula, program offerings, graduate placement and
productivity, and effectiveness of each training center.
Implementation Period. December 1991 to March 1993.
Focus of Study. (a) Extend the time horizon of the tracer studies,i.e.,
obtain information about employment sustainability of those graduates
who obtained gainful employment within three months of graduation (62%
in 1990), i.e., what happened to them after the three months in terms of
employment and earnings? Also, what happened to the rest of the
graduates; have they gained employment? What are the ckaracteristics of
those trainees, instructors, administrators, centers, and surrounding
industries, and how did they affect the graduates' placement and
earnings? Ideally, six months and 18 months after the graduation, the
same tracer studies should be repeated for the same sample; (b) expand
the coverage of the study to cover those who left the training program
with an entitlement to lower diplomas, such as "tecnico auxiliar," and
to cover other types of training program, such as in-service training;
(c) include a reference or control group, so that results for the
CONALEP graduates are comparable with those of the dropouts or graduates
of other educational systems, such as lower secondary or general upper
secondary, and technical upper secondary; (d) obtain information on the
quality of the technical knowledge and skills of CONALEP graduates, as
demonstrated at the work place and evaluated by the supervisors and
employers; (e) acquire information on the status of employment, such as
employed or self-employed, occupation, industry, etc.; consider
providing cash payments, or exempting fees for the diploma, for those
graduates who participate in the tracer study and provide requested
information; (f) get specialist assistance on the sample size,
procedures for the study, selection of the control group, and the
analysis of the collected data; (g) ensure coordination between the
studies of trainee selection, retention, and follow-up; and (h) maintain
continuity of the information already collected in the past.
Plan of Action. (a) In-depth review of documentation; (h) design of
study, carrying out of a pilot study and revision of study design as
required; (c) carrying out of field study with the full cooperation of
industry; (d) processing of data and information; and (e) preparation of
report and recommendations.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
H.    Technological Development
Oblective of Study. The objectives of this study are to: (a) determine
the current levels of the technology in use in the modern Mexican
workplace for the skilled trades and technician jobs, the changes during
the 1980s, and the expected changes during the 1990s; and determine the
shortfall between these levels and the levels of technology taught in
the current course syllabi and laboratory-shopwork activities of the
respective instructional fields of study in CONALEP, so that appropriate
changes can be made and equipment can be acquired; and (b) develop the
required series of technological teaching-learning packages to permit a
rapid integration into the teaching-learning process of both regular
training programs and up-grading programs of employed workers, so as to
facilitate the upgrading of the production processes in micro-small-
medium enterprises. A secondary but equally important objective is that
these technological packages would become the basis of the training
syllabi and laboratory-shopwork of the technological development
centers.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to June 1992.
Plan of Action. (a) Design of the study procedures, mounting of a pilot
study and revision as required; (b) field study to determine those
technological problems, human and physical, common to micro-small-medium
enterprises; (c) preparation, in an appropriate order of priority, of
the technological packages required; (d) preparation of the training
course syllabi, on the basis of the respective technological packages,
for the technological upgrading of qualified employed workers, training
center and in-plant instructors, and last-year technician level trainees
of the regular program; (e) determining, in an appropriate order of
priority, the human-equipment-materials-financial resources
requirements, and (f) preparation of the appropriate report on the
findings and recommendations for priority actions.
I.    Technological Assistance to Micro-Small-Medium-Enterprises
Obiectives of Study. (a) Identify, partly from information collected by
the study team for the Technological Development Study, the more
restrictive production problem4. encountered by a representative sample
of the enterprises; (b) analyze a representative sample of the more
restrictive ones encountered in the production process of these
enterprises; (c) assist in finding solutions and/or appropriate
alternative production processes through industrial data banks and
industrial processes consultant services which enterprise" can obtain
directly; and (d) as a result, expand and consolidate the impact of
technical education, with appropriate cost recovery, in the
diversification and expansion of industry in Mexico.
Implementation Period. July 1991 to August 1992.
Plan of Action. (a) Identification and analysis of production
processes, levels of technology in use in a selected representative
sample of micro, small and medium industries of the priority sectors;
(b) identification and analysis of significant problems associated with
production and marketing procesces; (c) identification of alternative
solutions of a representative sample of the more restrictive problems



Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
encountered in the production process and prepare profiles of necessaty
experiences of competencies of industrial processes or marketing
consultants when such services are required; and (d) preparation of the
results of the study and recommendations.
J.    Promotion of Micro-Industry Development
Oblectives of Study. (a) Refine and upgrade the quality and
effectiveness of the existing micro-enterprise development program in
operation by CONALEP for it's third-year regular students; and (b) make
such adjustments in the program to adapt it to more mature adult
audiences.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to June 1992.
Plan of Action. (a) Determine the fiscal and administrative
requirements for the successful creation of micro-enterprises; (b)
identify the training fields within CONALEP whose graduates (or skills
areas of out-of-school workers) are technically more prepared to
establish viable enterprises; (c) prepare prototype designs of
representative plans for the development and operation of successful
enterprises for use as "case studies" in training programs; (d) prepare
specific materials on the specific strategies in obtaining technical and
financial assistance for the creation of such enterprises; and (e)
prepare the final didactic manual for the creation of such enterprises.
K.    Improving the Quality and Effectiveness of CONALEP's  Administrative
Services
Obiectives of Study.   The central objectives of this study are to: (a)
develop a plan for the operation of administrative services that permits
a more rational use of physical, financial and human resources of the
CONALEP system; (b) as a result, improve the overall quality of
instruction and efficiency of the system through a computer and
communications network; and (c) design an efficient cost accounting
system, so that CONALEP management can assess and improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of different types of training programs offered by
each center, and facilitate cost recovery from the clients.
Implementation Period. June 1991 to'March 1993.
Plan of Action. (a) Thorough study of existing documentation; (b)
elaborate the methodology of the study; (c) hold regional meetings with
training center administrators and senior staff; (d) develop the details
of recommended plan and budgetary requirements; (e) design and specify
the computer and communications network systems needed, along with
implementation arrangements; and (f) prepare final report of findings
and recommendations.



Annex A
Page 1 of 2
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
CONALEP's Strategy for Imorovina Cost Recovery/Cost Sharing
of Training Programs
1.    Since its founding in 1978 CONALEP has had an effective policy to permit
and actively promote the financial participation of private and public sector
enterprises and commercial/industrial associations in the development and
operation of its training programs. In the early years the financial
participation was largely in the form of donations of civil works sites and,
in several instances, buildings. Over the eleven year period of 1979-89 all
of the sites for the 252 training centers and the national administration
headquarters have been donated. The estimated value of these sites has been
well in excess of US$50 million. While accurate data on the value of cost
recovery/cost sharing participation from non-budgetary sources (other than
sites and buildings) prior to 1984 was not available, the total value of all
participation for the period 1984-90 was about US$32.7 million for sites and
US$28.3 million in cash or "in kind".
2.    In the spring of 1989 the new administration of CONALEP updated its
strategy and accelerated its activities in the improvement of cost
recovery/cost sharing of operational costs of training. This is being done
through a rapid strengthening of its formal links with industry through the
expansion of its industrial relations committees (Comites de Vinculacion),
whose membership consists of business people and industrialists, in each of
the 252 centers. These committees have enabled CONALEP to arrange cooperative
agreements with about 1,300 enterprises. At the same time it has accelerated
its cost recovery through innovative training activities which also,
simultaneously, enhance the quality of training, student motivation and
retention.
3.    CONALEP's cost recovery targets necessarily vary in accordance with:
the types of training activity, i.e., in-service and in-plant training, re-
training programs for marginal populations of urban and rural poor; and
regular technician level training programs which have significant
opportunities for recovering part or all of consumable supply costs and at the
same time enhance the quality of training. CONALEP's strategy is necessarily
in a constant state of evolution and is flexible enough to allow for special
situation6. The rapid increase in the value of cost recovery in cash and in
kind (not including land) in 1990, when about US$12.9 million was recovered,
as contrasted to US$3.1 million in 1989 and US$2.3 million in 1988, attests to
the effectiveness of the strategy. Nevertheless, CONALEP is mounting a
special study with consultant assistance, to further improve its cost
recovery/cost sharing system.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Cost Recovery Targets in Effect in 1990
4.    The general target until the afore-mentioned study's findings are
available, is an increase from 13.6Z of ren-urrent expenditures in 1990/91 to
20.02 in 1996; this represents an average annual increase of about 152 in real
terms in CONALEP's cost recovery/cost sharing receipts over the period
1991-1996.
5.    In-Service Program.  In 1990 the target for all in-service upgrading
courses was 802 of total recurrent training costs for each course. In actual
practice it ranged from 1002 down to 77Z with an average of 862. The target
for 1996 is set at 1002. Cost recovery in the modular training program
attained a level of 202 in 1990. This level would be increased over the
course of project implementation.
6.    Retraining Program.  The target for 1990 was set at 90% of all costs for
the contract training done for the Manpower Training Project with the
Secretaria de Trabajo, and the actual cost recovery was about 85%. The target
for such contract training by 1996 is set at 100%. The retraining program
with marginal populations was targeted at only 152 of the actual cash
expenditures of CONALEP, and the target was met. However, the training
recipients furnished a significant amount of "in-kind" materials and services.
The same criteria would be followed under the proposed project.
7.    Retular Program.  Cost recovery in the regular program in 1990 was 132.
During the period 1991-1996, this level would be increased, particularly under
a student loan system in which graduates are to repay loans over a five year
period following graduation.



Annex 4
Attachment
UNITED STATES OF MEXICO
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
CONALEP's Cost Recovery and Cost Reduction Activities
(1984-1990)
1984   1985   1986    1987    1988   1989   1990
--             -US$000's-
Non-Budgeted Income:
Sub-Total       2'674.4 2'445.9 1'397.5 1'125.7 2'197.3 2'884.2 6'958.2
Registered Donations
-Efectivo         137.9  137.9   54.9   21.4   85.5   69.3   99.5
-Mobiliario y
Equipo         1515.7   134.5  153.2  147.9   92.1   108.0   93.5
-Terrenos       16'339.7 4'015.6 2'524.8 1'072.7    .- 8'667.2
Sub-Total       18'053.3 4'287.6 2'732.9 1'242.0   177.4 8'844.5   192.5
Unregistered Donations
-Sub-Total          .- -     .-    -.-      - -     -        - 5'737.0
Total Costs Recovered
or Saved        20'727.7 6'733.5 4'130.4 2'367.7 2'374.7 11'728.7 12'887.7
Source: Recuperaciones y beneficios obtenidos por CONALEP en 1990
CONALEP, Marzo 1991. Available in project iile and project worling papers.



Annex 5.1
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Cost By Components And Activity
C0PONENTS                                    Eapension of
Quality In-         TrainLg           Increase in       Total            S
Activities                              provetnt           Activities        Efficiency                     Bses  Coste
- - - - - - . . --.   - - US$ uillion - - - - - - -
Structural Strengthening of System            -                13.5                21.5          35.0             20.7
Instructor Training                          8.8                -                   -             8.8              5.2
Prograa Development                         65.3                5.3                 .            70.6            41.9
Assistance to Maquiladors Sector              1.9               8.8                 _            10.7              6.3
Assistance to Tourism Sector                  1.5               6.2                 .             7.7              4.6
Upgrading Employed Workers                    8.6               6.2                 -            14.8              8.8
Equipment Production and                        -              12.6                 8.4          21.0             12.5
Maintenance Service
TOTAL BASE COSTS                             86.1              52.6                29.9         168.6            100.0
Physical Contingencies                        4.3               2.6                 1.5           8.4              5.0
Price Contingencies                          14.0               8.6                 4.9          27.5             16.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTSJj                       104.4              63.8                36.3         204.5            121.3
(512)             (31%)               (18S)         (100si
ta-       Exeluding taxes and duties.
Figures may not add due to rounding.



Annex 5.2
UNITED MEXICA STATES
THIRD --TVCHICAL RININC PROJRCT
Pro1ect Cost Ettimateo Bv Years
(US$'000)
199z      Ioqa l-gs            io,9      js         1996      S
Civil Works                                                    4'670.0   6'970.0   6'690.0   6'296 4   1'35S.6  ---0--.    26'0U2.0
quiptAtet turtztura
e6daiural )aterials                                           5'260.0  21'125.0  21*372.0  17'675.0  16'754.0  11"567.0   93'753.0
Produ4tlou materials                                           1'224.8   2449.6  2V449.6   2'449.6   2'449.6   1'224.6   t2'248.0
-ecaluoal Assitance  aud Studies                               2$440.   4*300.0  _'SOO.0   7'900.0   7'920.0   *260.0   36'470.0
Total Bass Cost*                                    13'794.6  35'044.6  36'011.6  34321.0  28'379.2  21'001.s  168,'s3.0
CouttaBsuciss
Pysual)
Ptuce                                                        2'936.0   7463.7   7669.. 73109.5   6044.2   447).1    S'69O.0
TOIM. COSTS                                           "SU732p  M206 .a3  = "651 I         0 ; 123   34'423.4  2?4.0  pg



UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJfC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ mil'lion)
Pbae. III (Proposed Project)
Acculuadt*d
Ptebureu.wts                 Dlabureeuetc
CT       Ls   lak  n7   Lou                      AS t  X                      6- 
1991      it    1992         1                      9.4       6.3                9.6       6.3
1992       1               it                      12.7       6.*               22.3      14.7
11    1998        1                     19.0      12.5               41.3      27.2
1993       1               I                       13.3       8.6               54.6      36.0
11    1994        1                     19.9      13.1                74.5     49.1
1994       1               1U                      12.2       8.0               96.7      57.1
IS    1995        1                     18.6      12.2               105.3     69.3
1995       I               1                       11.2       7.4              116.5      76.7
it    1996        1                     16.7      11.0               133.2     87.7
1996       1               11                       7.9       5.2              141.1      92.9
it    1997        i                      10.9      7.2               152.0    100.0
TOrAL                                             152.0    100.0
f9to.~    P4iguree say not ad4 due to rounding.
Olebureemets would be bl5her during firat asmeter because of the rate at which the Goverent allocteo the buo get-



Annex 5.4
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the Loan Allocated                 S of Expcndttures
Catenora                               (in USS Equivalent)                      to bc Financed
(1) (a) Zquipunt end                      92,500,000                    100I   of foreign expenditures;
Education Katerials                                            852 of local *zp.nditura..
(b) Mobile Training Units              4.500,000                   100I   of foreign ezpanditurea,
852 of local expenditures.
(2C TScbnical Assistance                  40,000.000                    1002 of specialist assistance
and Studies                                                         costg internahips and
sangemet trainings and
(5) Unallocated                            15.000.000                   feacibility studie.
TOTAL                                 152,000,000



Annex 6.1
UNITED MEXlCAN STATES
THLRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
No. OF          PERSON          KN
.vxIT  ND PROOw                                                           PERSONS           HOarmS         YEARS
STUDY COURSES/TOURS
Library Org. & IMngt.
- Local Courses                                                          750              240           20.00
- Foreign Coures.                                                         42                10           0.75
Ilstructor Traininge
- Local Courses                                                        2,750              875           73.00
- Foreign Courses                                                         42               21            1.75
Mobile Training Unitse
- Local Courses                                                          280               112           9.33
- foreign Courses                                                          6                 8           0.25
In-Plent Trng. Org. & Oper.s
- Local Courses                                                          240               130          10.83
- Foroign Courses                                                         so                40           3.33
Curriculum Developments
- Local Courses                                                          345               114           9.50
- Foroegn Courses                                                          4                36           3.00
Total Local Coursoe                                                4,365                          122.67
Total Foreign Couress                                                174                            9.08
Specialist Assiatance
Library Org. & Ingts
- Local Specialist                                                        30                26           2.17
Inatructor Trainings
* Local Specialist                                                        22                e0           7.30
- Foroegn Specialist                                                      18                54           4.50
Mobile Training Unites
- foreign Specialists                                                     20                18           1.50
In-Plant Trng. Org. & Oper.t
- Foreign Spocialists                                                     48                32           2.66
Curriculum Devolopmnts
- Local Specialists                                                       90              270           22.50
Total Local Specialists                                              162                           32.17
Total Forelgn Specialiste                                             86                            8.66
Special Studieos  (Refer Annex 3)
- Local Specialists                                                      348              582           48.50
lapl"ntstlon Calendar                           CY 1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996
Zt1plesented/CY                                   6.7       12.2       15.1       21.6       21.7       22.7
2 Cuzlative                                       6.7       18.9       34.0       55.6       77.3      100.0
UNIT COSTS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN PERSON-NMTEHS
Local Specialists -             Rangse from US$950 to US$8.500 (including travel and per diem).
Foreign Specialist. -           Rangoe from US$6,000 to US$7,920 (plus *xternal and internal travel costs and per die).
Local Study Courses -           Ranges from US$1,500 to US$2,000 for travel and per dim while away frou hoe town only.
Foreig  Study Courses -          Ranges from US$3,000 to US$4,000 plus atr travel.



Annex 6.2
Page 1 of 2
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Criteria for Targeting Training Centers and Programs
for Assistance Under the Proiect
1.    The following criteria, agreed upon between the Bank and CONALEP for the
purposes of targeting training centers and programs for provision of
asistance under the project, are based on those agreed on for use in the
second project, with certain modifications indicated by the lessons learned in
its Implementation.
Trainina ProQrams
(a)   Economic Relevance Criteria.  Any new training programs and the
training centers and/or modes of training to be used, or
significant expansions in numbers to be trained in a given center
or region of the country, would be established on the basis of the
following factors:
(i)  Economic Demand.  Decisions for the establishment of new
training programs, or for additions or rotation of existing
ones, should be based on an analysis of the relationships
between national, regional and local trained manpower
requirements that the program would address and the output
from currant training programs; with appropriate
consultations with public and private enterprises and
municipalities of the region; and in accordance with the
priority of the sector in the National Development Plan.
(ii) Gainful Employment. The establishment of a new training
program in a center location where sustained and relevant
employment opportunities exist should have priority over a
location where adequate local/regional employment
opportunities do not exist, except when very compelling
social factors are involved. In such cases the advice and
council of private sector employers and associations should
be sought and appropriately factored into the decision
making process.
(b)   Feasibility Criteria.  A feasibility analysis, with the assistance
of qualified specialists, would carefully analyze the following
socioeconomic factors:



Annex 6.2
Page 2 of 2
(1)   Social Demand and Geographical Distribution.  Proposals for
the establishment or expansion of a training program in a
given location should include an inventory of the recurring
availability of sufficient numbers of ninth grade graduates
and other interested groups in the center's area of
influence, as well as other training opportunities in the
proposed area.
(ii)  Instructor Availability.  The proposal should also determine
whether a sufficient number of potential instructors are
available locally for the training specialties to be
offered.
(iii) Cooperation of the Productive Sector. The explicit interest
of local authorities and leaders of the productive sector is
a determining factor in the success of training programs.
Thus, willingness to provide financial assistance, donations
of training equipment, practical release of instructors, or
lend any other physical or moral assistance would be
important factors in deciding on the establiahmant of new
training programs.
(c)   Economic Efficiency Criteria.  The addition of new training
programs in small training centers of less than 600 total trainees
would, where labor market demand and the recurring availability of
adequate numbers of potentially interested trainees justify, have
priority.



Annex 6.3
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Civil Works
and Mobile Training Units
Civil Work. Implementetion B, Year.
Phases of Iupl.mentation
A            0             C             D            e             F
1991         1992          1993         1994          1995          1996
CIVIL WORKS TENDERSt                             66           21            39            16           11            10
ADVERTISING OF TENDERS                         6/91          4192          4/93         4/94          4/95          2/96
CONSTRUCTION START                              7191         3192          3/53         3194          3/95          2/96
COSSTRUCTION FINISH                            12/91        12/92         12/93        12/94         12/95          6/96
Mobile Training Unite Conetruction By Years
Phase. of Implementation
1991                  1992                    1993                    1994
MOBILE TRAINING UPITS NO,                         9                    25                      19                        7
DESIGNS                                        6/91                   3/92                    3/93                    3194
CONSTRUCTION START                              7/91                  4/92                    4/93                    4/94
CONSTRUCTION FINISH                            12/91                  9/92                    9/93                    9/94



Annex 6.4
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Physical Space Factors for Deeigin of Civil Works
Stxndcrd Phyeical Space Allowances for Tvve of Us.
Type of Spaco                                                   Square Meters                               Dimensions
(meters-net)
Classrooms
Type A - 26 students                                                51.84                                  8.00 x  6.48
Type B - 26 student.                                                64.80                                  8.00 x  8.10
Laboratories
Kultidisciplimn                                                     103.68                                 8.00 z 12.68
Metrology                                                            77.76                                 8.00 a  9.76
Computer  Sinloce                                                   103.68                                 8.00 z 12.96
Electrouic.                                                         155.52                                 8.00 x 19.44
Shove (Includes toolrooms and storage)
Carpentry                                                          216.00                                 12.00  , 18.00
Ind. Electrc_iechanice                                             288.00                                 12.00 a 24.00
Meat Processing                                                     360.00                                12.00 x 30.00
Design Drafting                                                     129.00                                 8.00 x 16.20
Typing                                                              129.00                                 8.00 x 16.20
AF.to Mechanics                                                    432.00                                 24.00 a 18.00
SuprorL Facilities
i-brary                                                             129.60                                 8.00 z 16.20
Audio Visual Rom                                                    129.60                                 8.00 a 16.20
Copy Center Room                                                     25.92                                 8.00 x  3.24
Toachara Cinon Rom                                                  103.68                                 8.00 a 12.96
Adainiststion Room                                                  129.60                                 8.00 x 16.20
sanitary Facilities                                                 51.84                                  8.00 x  6.48
Adainistator Office                                                  25.92                                 8.00 x  3.24
Storage Boom                                                        25.92                                  P.00 x  3.24
Snack Bar                                                           25.92                                  8.00 x  3.24



Annex 6.5
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Furniture. Eguipment and Educational Materials
Procuremeni- Schedule
Ipleu.ntatimn Phases
A            B             C             D             E             F
FURNITURE AND EUIPHENTa
CQIPLETION OF LISTS AND SPECIFICATIONS    5/91                 1192         1/93          1/94          1/95         --O--
ADVERTISING OF TENDERS                          9/91          6192          6/93          6/94          6/95        -_O--
A*MAING OF CONTRACTS                           11191          8/92          81/3          8/94          8/95         --O--
INSTALLATION                                    6/91          3/92          3/93          3/94          3/95          6/96



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators For The CONALEP's Programs
OVERALL INDICATORS                     91/92         92/93        93/94         94/95         95/96        96/97
(AADE2tIC EARS)
A. STUDENTS AND INSTRUCTORS
1. No. Of Students Ewrollod
Regular Programs              164,000       174,000       188,000      200,000       210,000       220,000
Modular Programs                10,000       20,000        40.000        60,000        70,000       80,000
Upgrading Programs             65,500        70,000        74.000        78.000       92,000       100,000
Totals                        239,500       264,000       302,000       338,000      372,000       400,000
2. No. Of Instructor&              19,900       22,000        25,200        28,600       31,000        33,300
(equivalent of 12 bre)
3. No. Of Instructors
Receiving Methodology
Training                        6,000         7,000         8,000         9,000       10,000        11,000
S. OUTPUTS AND EFFICIENCIES
1. No. Of Outputs
Regular Programs               41,500        43,000        44,500        46,000       47,500        50,000
Modulasr Programs                    -        2,500         6,800        20,000       30,000        40,000
Upgrading Progrms              60,000        57,000        65,000        73,000       81,000        90,000
2. Completion Ret.
Regular Programs                  52S           551           58S           612          64Z           652
Modular Progrems                    -                         751           75?           ,8S          80?
Upgradins Programs                90?           90?           90S           90?          90?           90?
C. COSTS AND PINANCING
(Constant 01/01/91 ue$'ooo)
Mexican FY                          1991          1992         1993          1994          1995          1996
Recurrent Coet Of Operation        92'083      102'212       115'364       127'318      135'508       143'698
Adainatration                    9'534       10'589        11'342        13'190       14'038        14'887
Regular Progrms                71'114        75'379        78'680       81'666        82'154        85'230
Modular Programs                 4'335        8'664        17'328        24'500       31'296        34'866
Upgrading Progrems               7'100        7'50         8'014         7'962        S'020         8'715
Cost Recovery/Savings Goals         14.7?         15.7?        16.8?         17.9?         18.9?        20.0?
tS of Recurrant Fpenditures)
(continued)



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
(continued)
OVERALL INDICATORS                     91192        92/93         93194         94/93         95/96         96/97
(ACADDEIC YEARS)
D. CIVIL WORKS
1. Instructor Training                 10           40            50         --O--        --0--         --O--
Center S
2. Computer Center S                   10           40            50         ----            0--        --0--
3. Regioal Maintenance                 10           40            so         --O--         --O--        --0--
Centers :
4. Technological Centers 2             30            31           20            13         --O--        --O--
S. 101  exting Centerc
Requiring Supplemental
Construction (No.)                  44            14           29             6             4            2
6. 90 Mobile training Uaits (No.)       9            25           19             7         --O--         --O--
E. [EQUIKERr AND FURNITURE
1. 250 Centere Re-Equipped/
Average S Completed                 16            16           16            16            16           20
2. No. Of Centers Fully
Ra-Kuipped                          20           so            50            so            40           40
F.  SELF E      NPLOYhERT PROGRASS
1. No. Of Training Centere (196)       16           36            36            36            36           36
2. No. Of Training Courses             96          250           250           250           250          250
3. No. Of Instructors
Receiving Training                 250          750           750         1,250        1,250         1,250
4. No. Of Students Enrolled         1.000        6,000        12,000        20.000       20,000        20,000
S. No. Of Untte Of Self                50           200          5OG         1,000         1,500        2,000
Employmnt Established
G. TECHNOLOCICAL SERVICES
1. No. of Technicians Upgrsedl'      200           SOO         1,000         1,600        2,500         3,1.30
2. No. of Instructor& Upgraded        100          750         1,000         2,000         3,000        4,000
3. No. Of Micro, Small and             12           50           100           170           250          300
Medium Indu.trier Assisted
F         Selected 3rd year tecbnicians of regular progra  and employed tchbnicians.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education and Traininq
Proarama Nacional de Desarrollo 1989-1994. SPP 1989.
Proarama Para la Modernizacion Educative 1989-1994. Poder
Ejecutivo Federal, 1989.
Proarama de Modernizacion del Coleaio Nacional de Education
Profesional Tecnica 1989-1994. Secretaria de Educacion
Publica, 1989.
Programa Nacional de Solidaridad, SPP 1989.
La Participacion del CONALEP en el Proarama Naciona!. de
Solidaridad. CONALEP 1989.
Provecto del Fideicomiso CONALEP - NAFINSA. CONALEP 1990.
Modelo Educativo CONALEP. CONALEP 1988
AntiDroyecto de Solicitud a la Secretaria de Hacienda v
Credito Publica Para un Credito del Banco Mundial
(CONALEP III ). CONALEP, Junio 1990.
Memoria de Calculo del Costos Para C'ONALEP III. CONALEP 1990.
Provecto de ADovo a las Maguiladoras a Traves de Capacitacion
"En" el Tra;oaio. CONALEP 1990.
Informe del Vinculacion Con el Sector Productivo.   CONALEP
1990.
Resultados del Programa dc CaRacitacion "Para" v "En" el
Trabaio en 1990. CONALEP 1990.
Relacion de Materiales Escritos Producidos 1985 - 1990.
Centro de Materiales y Prototipos Didacticos,
CONALEP 1991.
Proorama Metropolitano de Mantenimiento, Restauracion v
Production de Mobiliario Escolar. CONALEP 1990.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Proiect Completion Report, Loan 2559-ME. Second Technical
Training Proiect (CONALEP II). Marcl' 1991
Recuperaciones v Beneficios Obtenidos por CONALEP in 1990.
CONALEP Marzo 1991
Terminos de Referencia Para los Estudios Especiales en el
Provecto CONALEP III. Direccion de Planeacion y
Programacion de CONALEP. Marzo 1991.
Propuesto Para la Creacion de los Centros de Desarrollo
Tecnologico y Asistencia Tecnica (CEDETE).
CONALEP Marzo 1991.
Segundo Informe de Gobierno (AnexoL. Poder Ejecutivo
Federal, 1990
Mecanismos Basicos del Programa de Vinculacion Institucional.
CONALEP Marzo 1991.
Informe Vin,culacion Con el Sector Productivo. CONALEP
Plantel Merida II. 1990.
Convenios Institutionales Sustantivos 1989 a 1991: Objetivos,
Propositos y Acciones. CONALEP Marzo 1991.
Programa de Seguimiento de Earesados. CONALEP Marzo 1991.
Muestreo de Sequimiento de Egreaidos.  CONALEP Noviembre 1990.
Muestreo de Sequimiento de Egresados.  CONALEP Agosto 1988.
Muestreo de Seguimiento de Egresados. CONALEP Diciembre 1981.
Catalogo de Proaramas Generales v Cursos de Capacitecion.
CONALEP 1990.
Sistems de ADO.Yo Para la Integracion de Microempresas.
(10 volumens). CONALEP 1987.
Uno Estudio de las Necesidades del Mano de Obra en el
Sector Maguiladora. J. Carrillo, INF. Enro 1991.
Centros Regionales de Mantenimiento. CONALEP 1990.
Manual del Mantenimiento en al Colegio. CONALEP 1988.
Provecto de Optimizacion del Eguipo. CONALEP 1990.
Resumen Programa de Transferencias de Equipamiento.
CONALEP 1990.
Sist-ema Modular de Formacion Profesional Tecnica.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Direccion Academica-Servicios de Extension Educativa.
CQNALEP 1991.
Realamento del Consejo Consultivo.  CONALEP.
Proarama de Unidades Moviles de Capacitacion. CONALEP.
trograma de Antoeguipamiento 1991-1996. CONALEP 1991.



KEY TO HAP
(When fully operational in 1996-97)
Number of
Regional
Maintenance/
Number      Technological
of          Development
Training    and Assistance
REGION                         STATES                                 Centers      Complexes         Enroliments
North West I                   Baja California, Baja California       34           1                  40,000
Sur, Nayarit, Sinaloa, Sonora.
North II                       Coahuila, Chihuahua, Durango,          25           2                  31,000
Nuevo Leon.
Gulf of Mexico III             Tamaulipas, Veracruz.                  19                              28,000
North Center IV                Aguascalientes, San Luis Potosi,       10           1                   15,000
Zacatecas.
West Center V                  Colima, Guanajuato, Jatisco,           38           1                   54,000
Michoacan.
Center VI                      Hidalgo, Morelos, Puebla,              20                              26,000
TlaxcaLa, Queretaro.
VaLLey of Mexico VII           Distrito Federal, Estado de            67           2                  154,000
Mexico.
South and South East VIII    Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero,             37           1                  52,000
Oaxaco, Quintana Roo, Tabasco,
Yucatan.
TOTALS                                                             250         8                  400,000
Note:   Enrollments incLude regular, upgrading, and special programs.



UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA                                                                            MEXICO
\                   . '> >t>~.=                                                                   THIRD TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
AI IfOR,YlA                  a         R                                            ,
North  West                   n IR                  ( rn-to.II
- REGION BOUNDARIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
Gnapn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITALS
BLAIA     -      5-  I~ Ml    ~      C~~Oo,                                                                       oo                                                                         0   PRINCIPAL CITIES OR TOWNS
fAJA x - gSo^soRucilo >,dodOLset                                                                                                                      f ,  -    t If, NJessLofa $? . DIVIDED HIGHWAYS
CAI    5 I- -   - SELECTED mAIN ROADS
SUR                                                                                                                                                                                  R S   V7>  P>ffi    -   S   <     Unl@;t f   tt h  hAILROADS
RIVERS
4    PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
W.-                                   STATE B~~~~--  OUNDAPIES
T.-                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4 1000.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1 
c 4Si                                                                                                                                4'
2S                                                                                                                                    'V,   A 'A
llLoMEr      OR 0  o 000     S00      *00D     'C                               Voilley  of Mexico   V II   A0pk                                    LV/ SNfeo                 uth               ttoG     d      W5  
-20.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.                20 fI ,,  
MILES O            IT0          200           300                                                                                             PetEcnIo            _                                              UTML 
s.G.W > eyw'"iswhfi rW vd Topochult? HONDURAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Too05o
110                                                IDD                                                                                          00*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
co ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ILOMETn   w    17         20D                                                        Valley  oref Mexco                V lM Wr
llO0                                                                                        IO'                                                                                          EO   z              MAY 1991



