Page  1
September 18, 1998 
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 01020 
México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director 
General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 03100  
México, D.F. México
Mr. Antonio Argüelles Díaz Gonzales 
Director 
General Colegio Nacional de Educación 
Profesional Técnica Avenida 
CONALEP No. 5 52140 Metepec Estado de México, 
México 
Re:    Loan 3358-ME (Third Technical Training Project) Amendment to the 
CONALEP Project 
Agreement
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the CONALEP Project Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Colegio Nacional de Educación 
Profesional Técnica (CONALEP) dated October 14, 1991 (as previously amended), with 
respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement 
to amend said CONALEP Project Agreement as follows:
1.
Section I, Part C of the Schedule is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph 3 
at the end thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:  “Instructional materials (not 
including computers) and library books, which can only be purchased from those holding 
their copyrights, may be purchased through direct contracting in accordance with 
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.”.
2.
The first sentence of Section I, Part D.1 (a) of the Schedule is hereby amended 
to read as follows in its entirety:  “With respect to each contract procured through 
the procedures referred to in Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule, to each contract 
procured through the procedures referred to in Part C.3 of Section I of this Schedule, 
and to each of the first two contracts awarded during Project implementation through 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the four originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Richard L. Clifford 
Acting Director Mexico Country Department 
Page  2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: Roberto A. Casillas Contreras M.
By: Carlos García Moreno
    Authorized Representative
    Authorized Representative
Date: September 18, 1998
Date: September 18, 1998
CONALEP
By: Antonio Argüelles
    Authorized Representative
Date: September 18, 1998
