CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1259 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Fifth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated May 20, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount4in various currencies equivalent to ninety million
dollars ($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PLN agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PLN, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agree-
ment will be made available to PLN on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate public utility, administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in the design, engi-
neering, procurement and construction supervision under Part A
of the Project and in the management assistance required under
Part B of the Project, PLN shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the finan-
cial recovery plan included in Part B of the Project, PLN shall:
(i) prepare and submit to the Bank during the third quarter of each
of PLN's fiscal years a definitive draft of a detailed financial
recovery program of measures for the following fisc&l year, designed
to improve PLN's administration and operations and scheduled to be
implemented by realistic target dates specified in the program, to-
gether with an analysis of the expected financial effects of such
measures; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment


﻿on such draft; (iii) thereafter, adopt a program consisting of the
measures specified in said draft as modified to take into account
the Bank's comments thereon; and (iv) implement that program ex-
peditiously.
(b) PLN shall: (i) review during the first quarter of each
of its fiscal years the implementation of its annual financial
recovery program during the preceding fiscal year on the basis of
its unaudited financial statements for that preceding year; (ii)
review during the third quarter of each of its fiscal years the
implementation of its annual financial recovery program during
the first fiscal semester on the basis of financial statements
for that semester; and (iii) prepare such financial statements
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, and furnish to the Bank certified copies in the English
language of such financial statements and the result of such
review.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.08. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound engineering,
administrative, financial and public utility practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other prop-
erties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in
the conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as required
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions, including self-insurance,


﻿satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fi-
nancial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of PLN and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank and PLN, with the approval
of the Borrower, shall otherwise agree, and after having attained
full financial recovery in accordance with the plan included in
Part B of the Project, PLN shall:
(a) from time to time take all steps (including but not
limited to increases in its tariffs and charges) as shall be re-
quired to provide revenues from PLN's sales of electricity suf-
ficient to cover all PLN's administrative and operating expenses


﻿- 10 -
(including maintenance, adequate provision for depreciation and
bad debt, and taxes, if any), interest and other charges on debt,
and a reasonable contribution towards new capital investments of
PLN; and
(b) within the first and third quarters of each of its fis-
cal years, review on the basis of reasonable estimates whether
the revenues from its sales of electricity shall be sufficient
to cover during the current fiscal year the costs specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and furnish to the Bank the result
of such review.
Section 4.04. PLN shall pay all its debts within one month
after their respective due dates.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN
shall not incur any debt, unless:
(i) all debt service payments (if any) on account of
such debt to be made before PLN has attained full
financial recovery in accordance with the plan
included in Part B of the Project shall be deferred
until PLN will have attained such financial re-
covery; and
(ii) PLN's net revenues for the fiscal year next pre-
ceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-months
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is greater, shall be equal to or exceed the


﻿- 11 -
maximum debt service requirement for any succeed-
ing fiscal year on all debt, including the debt
to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of PLN ma-
turing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of ex-
ecution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other in-
strument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of PLN's tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-months period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative ex-
penses (including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any), but
before provision covering depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,


﻿- 12 -
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 4.06. PLN shall ensure that on the first day of every
calendar month the aggregate amount due to it on account of elec-
tricity supplied by it to customers, other than departments or
agencies of the Borrower, will be less than the aggregate amount
charged or to be charged by it to such customers on account of
electricity supplied by it during the three calendar months im-
mediately preceding that day.
Section 4.07. PLN shall continue to cause its tariff sur-
charges, if any, to be related to the actual costs of PLN on ac-
count of which they are levied in addition to the applicable
rates and to be related to PLN's basic tariff structure.
Section 4.08. By March 31, 1977, or such later date as the
Bank may agree, PLN shall in consultation with the Bank develop
a system of appropriate financial performance targets to evalu-
ate all aspects of PLN's financial management which would apply
after PLN has attained its full financial recovery in accordance
with the plan included in Part B of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of
this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify PLN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 1~4 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Kantor Pusat
Jl. Adityawarman
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                Telex:
PLNPST                        46186 (JKT)
Jakarta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PLN may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent Director of PLN or such other person or persons as the Pres-
ident Director of PLN shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PLN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of PLN, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by PLN pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agree-
ment.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By /s/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
6hh,


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   With respect to contracts for equipment or materials, iden-
tical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped together
to the extent practicable for the purposes of inviting bids, and
such grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the
Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Subject to the prior consent of the Bank and up to an aggre-
gate amount of $500,000 equivalent, contracts estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of
the applicable procurement procedures of PLN.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with


﻿- 18 -
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to PLN of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indo-
nesia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of PLN and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 19 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 20 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the spec-
ifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or pro-
cedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and PLN and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 21 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and PLN and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


