Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17025
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Loan 3465-ME
August 29, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Mexico Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1996)
Currency Unit    =      Mexican New Peso
US$ 1.00         =      N$ 7.86
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONACYT         Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (National Council of Science and
Technology)
DGESAF          Direccion General de Estudios del Sector Agropecuaria y Forestal (Directorate General
of Agricultural and Forestry Sector Studies)
DDR             Distritos de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Districts)
FMDR            Fundacion Mexicana de Desarrollo Rural (Mexican Foundation for Rural
Development)
IICA            Instituto Interamericano de Cooperaci6n en Agricultura (Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation in Agriculture)
INIFAP          Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias (National Institute
for Forestry, Livestock and Agricultural Research)
NAFTA           North American Free Trade Agreement
PLANAT          Plan Nacional de Apoyo a la Agricultura de Temporal (National Program for
Assistance to Rainfed Areas, Loan 1945-ME)
PROCATI         Programa de Capacitaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica e Investigacion (Program for Training,
Technical Assistance, and Research, Loan 2859-ME)
PROCAMPO    Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo (Farm Support Payments Program)
PRODERITH    Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integral para el Tropical Himedo (Program for Integrated
Rural Development of the Humid Tropics, Loans 1553-ME and 2658-ME)
SAGAR           (formerly SARH) Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (Secretariat
of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development)
SARH            (now SAGAR) Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (Secretariat of
Agriculture and Water Resources)
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SHCP            Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Piublico (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
Vice President                     Shahid Javed Burki
Director                           Olivier Lafourcade
Previous Manager                   Michael Baxter
Task Manager                       Gisu Mohadjer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(Loan 3465-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..............................                                        X
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................                             ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Evaluation of Objectives ............................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ............................           1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................3
D. Project Sustainability .............................4
E. Bank Performance ...........................                             4
F. Borrower Performance ............................6
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................7
H. Future Operation .............................7
I. Key Lessons Learned ...........................7
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:  Key Indicators of Project Implementaion .16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .17
Table 7A: Project Costs ........................... 18
Table 7B: Project Financing ........................... 18
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................            19
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................... 24
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions ...........................             25
APPENDICES
A. Completion Mission Ayuda Memoria
B. Borrower Contribution
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
(Loan 3465-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Technology
Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3465-ME in the amount of US$ 150.0 million equivalent was
approved on May 5, 1992 and made effective on September 16, 1992.
The loan was completed on March 12, 1997 with a loan closing date of June 30, 1999.
US$ 60.0 million was canceled on August 4, 1995; US$ 66.6 million was canceled on July 9,
1996. The last transaction took place on March 12, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by the following staff from the Environmentally and Socially
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit (formerly in the Sector Leadership Group)
and the Mexico Department in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region: Ms. Gisu Mohadjer
(Task Manager); Ms. Kathryn Johns Swartz (Research Assistant); Ms. Teresa Roncal
(Procurement Assistant); and Mr. Robin LeBreton (Consultant). It was reviewed by Mr. Michael
Baxter, former Manager of the Sector Leadership Group and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade, Director,
Mexico Department. The Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission, January 19
to January 25, 1997. It is based on material in the project file, supplemented by information from
the Borrower.



ii
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This project was identified based on a wealth of sectoral knowledge and experience,
following on 17 years of experience in supporting the agricultural extension and research sector in
Mexico, as well as two sector reviews. In January and February 1990, the Bank undertook two
missions to prepare the Agricultural Technology Sector Review (August 20, 1992, Gray Cover
Report No. 9297-ME), which was used as the basis for project identification. The project was
designed to build on experience of the pilot Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 2859-ME).
Project Objectives
The project objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement were to improve agricultural
productivity and growth through: (a) the generation of new agricultural technology through
research; (b) the effective extension of new and existing technologies to producers; and (c) the
improvement of the institutional capacity of the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture, and
Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias, INIFAP).
These objectives were not modified during project implementation since they were appropriate
given the needs of the sector. These sectoral objectives remain valid.
Implementation Experience and Results
Several major events affected the project. The first was the heavy involvement of the
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (Secretaria de Agricultura,
Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural, SAGAR) in the negotiations between the Governments of Mexico
and the United States on agricultural aspects of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) during 1992 to 1994. The second was the devaluation crisis at the end of 1994, and
the subsequent budgetary pressures during 1995 and 1996. The third was the change in
Government's policy of privatizing extension and seeking external funds for research, and the
emergence in 1994 of the Farm Support Payment Program (Programa de Apoyos Directos al
Campo, PROCAMPO). All three events were instrumental in shifting the focus of the
Government away from the project.
In 1995, the Government and the Bank agreed to restructure the project based on a new
strategy of public sector intervention in technology generation and transfer. After details of the
restructured project were completed, the administration changed and the new administration
requested that the project funds be channeled instead to the new program of decentralization -
Alianza para el Campo. After extensive consultations in Mexico and in Washington in early 1996,
the Government and the Bank agreed that given that the implementing agencies and mechanisms
would be quite different, and that there was no consensus on next steps in project restructuring, it
would be preferable to cancel this project.



iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
The outcome of the project is unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve any of its
major objectives, and has not yielded worthwhile development results. Since continuation of the
project along the original lines is now impossible given the policy changes that have taken place,
there will be no future operation of the project in the form in which it was appraised. However,
the Government has expressed its interest in pursuing the establishment of a Competitive Grants
Fund.
Among the key sectoral lessons from the project are: notwithstanding the current thrust
towards increased private sector involvement in extension, the Government has a strong role in
providing extension services in subsistence and marginal areas; the Government's extension
system needs to be systematic, dedicated, and supported by a. strong research establishment;
alternative approaches to extension can be successful; and the Government should encourage and
finance such alternative approaches; Government may have an important role to play in funding
basic research, even when the research system is opened up and international collaborations are
solidified; research quality depends on the quality of human resources - systems and training
cannot make up for insufficient or inadequate education.
Some of the key operational lessons are: generic operational issues such as underfunding
should be addressed outside of the project context; all implementing agencies must have
ownership of the project; implementation arrangements should be mainstreamed to the extent
possible; more flexible assistance methodologies should be explored at a time of significant policy
and organizational change; during implementation it may be necessary to renew the commitment
of new managers to the project's objectives and components; if projects do not receive adequate
funding at a time of financial crisis, they should be canceled; implementation contracts with
outside agencies can facilitate project implementation but need to be carefully monitored.



1
MEXICO
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement were to improve agricultural
productivity and growth through: (a) the generation of new agricultural technology through
research; (b) the effective extension of new and existing technologies to producers; and (c) the
improvement of the institutional capacity of the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture, and
Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias, INIFAP).
These objectives were not modified during project implementation since they were appropriate
given the needs of the sector. These sectoral objectives remain valid.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    As detailed below, achievement of most project objectives was negligible, with partial
achievement of some of the institutional development and physical objectives in the early years.
The project had a typical start-up in 1992 for projects in the same sector in Mexico, with
expenditures amounting to 76 percent of forecasted budget, but it was essentially abandoned by
the Government in subsequent years. The Government changed its policy regarding agricultural
research and extension, and with this change in focus came a shift in resources away from the
project. Out of a total loan amount of US$ 150.0 million, only US$ 23.4 million was disbursed,
and the remaining amount was canceled in two tranches (US$ 60.0 million in August 1995, and
US$ 66.6 in July 1996). As a result, the project did not make a significant contribution to the
sectoral objective of improving agricultural productivity and growth.
3.    Generation of New Agricultural Technology Through Research. The project
supported general research activities in INIFAP in 1992 and 1993. During this time, INIFAP
released six hybrid maize varieties, six new varieties of beans, two improved rice cultivars, one
rainfed wheat variety, and one variety of chile. By 1994, the Government had changed its policies
on research funding and INIFAP had moved to a system of demand-driven externally supported
research funding. From 1994 onwards, funds were not allocated to the project by INIFAP. This
was partly due to the change in policy, but it was also due to the perceived lack of budgetary
additionality for the project. Had INIFAP intended to change its position regarding the project,
the devaluation crisis at the end of 1994 and the subsequent reductions in budgetary resources
made it impossible to do so.
4.    Extension of New and Existing Technologies to Producers. The project was originally
designed to function in 75 of 193 Rural Development Districts (Distritos de Desarrollo Rural,
DDR). In 1992, the project operated in 24 DDRs, primarily by supporting across-the-board
salary increases (instead of the original performance bonuses) and recurrent expenditures. The



2
primary activities within the DDRs were on-farm demonstrations. Soil and water conservation
projects were undertaken in four DDRs. In 1993, the Government decided to exclude DDRs at
the productive extremes, such as in irrigated or subsistence agriculture. As a result, the scope of
the project was reduced to 40 DDRs.
5.    During project preparation in 1990, the Government had 10,600 extension agents working
directly with producers, but soon after, the Government decided to privatize the function of direct
technical assistance to farmers and concentrate instead on working with producers groups. By
1995 there were only 600 extension agents working with producers groups, supported by 372
technical specialists. By this time, the Government had also moved to a Farm Support Payments
Program (Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo, PROCAMPO), and extension agents in the
DDRs were asked to spend 30 to 100 percent of their time on PROCAMPO-related activities. As
a result of these changes in policy, the Government reallocated its human and financial resources
away from the project, and project activities in the DDRs camne to a halt.
6.    In June 1993, some project-funded extension activities were contracted out to the
Mexican Foundation for Rural Development (Fundaci6n Mexicana de Desarrollo Rural, FMDR),
a non-profit society created to promote rural development by helping small farmers set up and
manage group enterprises. FMDR established and operated demonstration plots.
7.    Improvement of Institutional Capacity of INIFAP. The project funded institutional
strengthening directly and through contracts with the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in
Agriculture (Instituto Interamericano de Cooperaci6n en Agricultura, IICA).
8.   In 1992 and 1993, the project funded the purchase of equipment, and the operation and
maintenance of INIFAP's Management Information System, which is still in use. Periodicals were
subscribed to, and computer equipment was purchased, and 11 laboratories were upgraded. At
INIFAP, the project funded 22 years of post-graduate training, and several short courses,
conferences, and seminars in the first two years of the project. The INIFAP-IICA contract
financed operating expenditures, technical assistance, transportation, and computing equipment.
The contract also funded a Project Coordination Unit at INIFAP, which continued to exist far
beyond its usefulness given that there were negligible project activities, and it was finally
disbanded at the insistence of the Bank.
9.    At the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (Secretaria de Agricultura y
Recursos Hidraulicos, SARH, which in 1995 was renamed the Secretariat of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development, Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural,
SAGAR), training was undertaken at the district level for staff and producers, and at the regional
and central level for staff, in the early years of project implementation. Only one-third of the total
amount of the SAGAR-IICA contract was used for studies, training, and monitoring and
evaluation related to the project, with the remainder for general operating expenditures.
10.   An important objective of the project was the establishment of a stronger funding base for
agricultural research and extension, and the project included a Research Grants Fund. While this
Fund was never operational, during project restructuring discussions in 1995 and 1996, details on
the establishment and operation of a Competitive Grants Fund were worked out. To do so, the



3
role of the Government in the sector, and opportunities for collaboration with the private sector
and producers groups were clarified. The Government has since been discussing the
establishment of such a Fund with other donors, including the Inter-American Development Bank.
11.   Appropriateness of Project Design. In retrospect - after several years of implementation
- it is evident that even without the changes in Government policy, project implementation could
have been enhanced with a different design. For example, responsibility for the new approach to
extension services was placed in the Directorate General for Agricultural and Forestry Sectoral
Studies (Direcci6n General de Estudios del Sector Agropecuaria y Forestal, DGESAF) in
SAGAR instead of in the Sub-Secretary of Agriculture and Livestock, which was managing the
Government's traditional extension system and had not fully accepted the new approach. With
pressure to focus on the North American Free Trade Agreement, and with the subsequent
departure of the original manager, DGESAF did not give extension activities the necessary
attention. As another example, the Research Grant Fund Committee was headed by an official
from the National Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
Tecnologia, CONACYT), an agency with which SAGAR was unwilling to cooperate or share
authority. After one meeting and the signing of an inter-agency agreement, no further activities
took place.
12.   Monitoring Indicators. The project design included appropriate quantitative criteria for
judging achievement of its objectives, although monitoring was sporadic in the early years, and
neglected thereafter. In common with most agricultural research projects, no economic
evaluation was attempted and it is not possible now to calculate the net present value of the
project.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
13.   Several major events affected the project. The first was the negotiations between the
Governments of Mexico and the United States on NAFTA from 1992 to 1994. Within SAGAR,
DGESAF staff were closely involved in the agricultural aspects of these negotiations and this
reduced any interest they may have had to actively manage the extension component of the
project, and to seek solutions to any problems as they emerged. The second was the devaluation
crisis at the end of 1994, and the subsequent budgetary pressures during 1995 and 1996. The
crisis reinforced the Government's policy of privatizing extension and seeking external funds for
research. The third was the emergence of the PROCAMPO program, which required substantial
amounts of staff time to document land use patterns, and for which the services of extension staff
in the DDRs were drafted.
14.   During the first year of project implementation in 1992, the project followed a typical
pattern of slow start-up. With the privatization of extension services, budgetary resources were
withheld from the project and were used instead for other activities. After the disappointing
performance in 1993, there were ongoing discussions between the Bank, the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienday Credito Pzublico, SHCP), and SAGAR on
how to reformulate the project given the changes in Government policy regarding extension and
research. However, while the Government had taken steps to privatize the extension system and
make the research program demand-driven, it had not articulated a strategy for appropriate public



4
sector intervention in the sector. Since it was the last year of the Administration, Government
officials felt it best to wait for the new Administration to articulate such a policy.
15.   Immediately after the new Administration had taken office in January 1995, the Bank -
with the assistance of an international expert in the sector - started to provide assistance to the
Government in articulating its strategy and policies for technology generation and transfer. A
successful workshop was held with stakeholders in May 1995 to discuss and reach consensus on
the strategy, and that summer, the Government and the Bank discussed a proposal for canceling
US$ 60.0 million as part of the post-devaluation cancellations of the Mexico portfolio, and
restructuring the project with the remaining funds based on the new strategy. Several factors
prevented reaching full agreement on the restructured project: SAGAR had been conducting an
internal review of its activities, and as a result moved the extension component of the project out
of DGESAF and into a new unit in the newly created Sub-Secretariat of Rural Development;
INIFAP's senior management was changed; SAGAR was given the mandate to decentralize its
operations; SHCP insisted on seeing full details on the design and operation of a Competitive
Grants Fund before agreeing to any restructuring proposal; and SAGAR and SHCP entered into
discussions about the annual additionality of project funds.
16.   By the end of 1995, the Sub-Secretariat of Rural Development, INIFAP, and the Bank
had finalized the details on the restructured project; final expenditure data was needed in order to
amend the legal documents. In February 1996, the Secretary of Agriculture, accompanied by the
Sub-Secretary of Rural Development, the head of INIFAP and representatives of SHCP, visited
Washington to discuss SAGAR's new program of decentralization - Alianza para el Campo. The
Secretary requested that all Bank assistance, including the restructured project, be channeled into
the Alianza. After extensive consultations in Mexico and in Washington, the Government and the
Bank agreed that given that the implementing agencies and mechanisms would be quite different
and that there was no consensus on next steps in project restructuring, it would be preferable to
cancel this project, and instead to think about the possibility of designing a new project to support
research and extension under the Alianza. In July 1996, US$ 66.6 million was canceled, and the
final transactions related to the Special Account took place in March 1997.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The project is unlikely to be sustainable. Approximately 25 percent of project
expenditures have been for operating costs in an extension system that is no longer in operation.
It is unclear whether staff trained by the project in 1992 and 1993 are still working in the
Government's research and extension system. Upgrades to INIFAP's Management Information
System and its computer network will have some sustainable impacts, and if resources are
allocated by INIFAP for the continuous updating of these systems, they may be sustainable.
However, budgetary shortages in the public sector in recent years as a result of the devaluation
crisis have not permitted adequate system updates.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   Identification. This project was identified based on a wealth of sectoral knowledge and
experience, following on 17 years of experience in supporting the agricultural extension and



5
research sector in Mexico, as well as two sector reviews. The project was designed to build on
experience of the pilot Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 2859-ME) and in January and
February 1990, the Bank undertook two missions to prepare the Agricultural Technology Sector
Review (August 20, 1992, Gray Cover Report No. 9297-ME) which was used as the basis for
project identification. As a result, the project was fully consistent with the priorities of the
Government and the Bank's assistance strategy for the sector at the time, but the Bank misjudged
the likely timing of the privatization of research and extension activities, and the possibly limited
life expectancy of major public sector organizations.
19.   Preparation. The Bank supported the Borrower during project preparation. At the time,
preparation met the criteria for technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
social aspects. The Bank interacted primarily with INIFAP, and could have made more of an
effort to include other agencies, such as the Sub-Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock, in
project preparation discussions.
20.   Appraisal. The Bank encountered strong and committed leadership at INIFAP and
DGESAF, and was able to adequately appraise the capacity of the implementing agencies under
such leadership. The Bank did not - and probably could not - appraise the likely capacity of these
agencies in the absence of such leadership. Nor was the Bank able to judge the limited influence
INIFAP leadership had outside the agency.
21.   The Bank's standards for participation in appraisal at that time were less rigorous than
today, but even so, there was broad participation by scientists and extension workers in the
process. Farmers had been widely consulted in preparation, and part of the project was designed
to broaden the funding base for the research system by improving collaboration with producers
groups. The project was based on concepts that had already been tried in Mexico and other
places, and that by the standards of the time were compatible with accepted practices.
22.   The Bank was well aware of past experience with Bank lending to Mexico, in which
counterpart funding has been a constant problem. The Bank was able to correctly identify the
nature of the risks facing the project - lack of commitment and adequacy of funding - and took
steps to minimize them. The Government was requested to provide a policy letter, which it did.
The Government was asked at negotiations for specific assurances that the necessary budget
assignations would be made: at the time the assurances given seemed reasonable. However, the
Bank did not have sufficient influence on SHCP on the issue of counterpart funding and budgetary
allocation, a situation that continues even to this day.
23.   Both the lending instrument and the financing package, a loan of 50 percent of project
cost, were standard approaches to project financing at the time, and there were no special
circumstances that would have warranted a different approach. In retrospect, especially after the
impact of the devaluation crisis, a smaller project size would have been more appropriate, but this
was not apparent in 1992.
24.   Implementation indicators were agreed upon at negotiations. The indicators for research
were fairly comprehensive, but the indicators for extension were sketchy. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to develop impact indicators based on the results of a productivity study to be



6
carried out during the project. This study was not carried out and impact indicators were not
developed.
25.   Supervision. Bank supervision was within the parameters planned at appraisal: 30.0 staff
weeks were budgeted for the first 30 months of the project, and actual staff time spent was 31.4
staff weeks. One supervision mission per year was planned, which probably would have been
adequate if all had gone well with the project. The Task Manager in charge of project preparation
left in April 1994, and since then the project had two task managers. Field offices and country
implementation reviews did not, and were not expected to play any significant role in project
supervision.
26.   After the disappointing performance in 1993, there were ongoing discussions in 1994
between the Bank, SHCP and SAGAR on how to reformulate the project given the changes in
Govermnent policy regarding extension and research. It was agreed that such discussions should
be undertaken with the new Administration. From early 1995 onwards, the project was under
intense supervision and restructuring, and received significant attention from senior managers at
the Bank and in the Government.
27.   The performance ratings in the supervision reports accurately reflect the Bank's
perception of project performance, and were progressively downgraded. Supervision missions
accurately reported on the status of covenants.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   Preparation. The main project counterpart agency during project preparation was
DGESAF, which had a very strong manager. However, the project was largely prepared by
JNIFAP, with assistance from IICA, and the quality of preparation was satisfactory. The fact that
INIFAP did not communicate more effectively with other agencies most likely caused problems in
project design and implementation.
29.   Implementation. SAGAR and INIFAP responded as expected to the incentives in the
overall policy and institutional environment during project implementation. Given the importance
of the NAFTA negotiations, DGESAF - a unit specializing in economic analysis and studies -
focused on those instead of the project. Changes in fiscal policies as a result of the devaluation
crisis that began in December 1994 and continued for two years. This resulted in major budgetary
pressures in SAGAR and INIFAP, and created a disincentive to resolve issues in a project that
was seen as a drain, instead of an addition, to budgetary resources. US$ 60.0 rmillion was
canceled in 1995. As a result of privatization of extension and research, the focus of Government
activities was shifted to other activities, such as PROCAMPO.
30.   Without explicitly saying so, especially to the Bank, the Government severely underfunded
the project: in 1992 actual allocations were 76 percent of appraisal estimates; in 1993, 36 percent,
in 1994, 15 percent; and by 1995, 11 percent. The overall pattern of expenditures did not fit the
original design, and there were some problems with the procurement of ineligible items, especially
at the DDRs.



7
31.   INIFAP was headed by five different people during the period of project preparation and
implementation, with each new person bringing in a different management team. Within SAGAR,
the misplaced extension component was eventually moved from DGESAF to the Sub-Secretary of
Rural Development, but it was never moved to the Sub-Secretary of Agriculture and Livestock,
which was managing the traditional extension system. In the early years of project
implementation, DDRs had a significant degree of autonomy to adapt project implementation to
the requirements of local conditions, and therefore the quality of implementation was variable.
32.   The project financed major contracts for implementation with IICA and FMDR. Neither
contract was carefully supervised or audited by the Government. However, an independent
evaluation of FMDR's activities by the European Community, which was undertaken for other
purposes, was positive as to the impact and cost effectiveness of FMDR's activities.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   The outcome of the project is unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve any of its
major objectives, and has not yielded worthwhile development results. While it had some early
impact at INIFAP and SAGAR, these impacts have not proved to be sustainable. During project
restructuring discussions, the Bank was able to provide assistance to the Government in
collaborating with stakeholders to articulate a strategy and approach to the development and
funding of agricultural research and extension. Based on these discussions, the Bank assisted the
Government in designing an appropriate role for itself by funding private sector and producers
group activities through a Competitive Grants Fund, and funding and implementing Government
activities. While the difficulties in the project provoked these discussions, the Bank would have
been willing to provide this assistance to the Government outside the context of the project. Therefore
the seemingly positive outcome of these discussions should not be ascribed to the project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
34.   Since continuation of the project along the original lines is now impossible given the policy
changes that have taken place, there will be no future operation of the project in the form in which
it was appraised. Instead, the Government is channeling extension resources through the Alianza
para el Campo. This program is based on local decision-making by state and municipal
authorities, together with producer organizations, and co-financing by federal and state authorities
and producers groups. The Government has expressed its interest in pursuing the establishment
of a Competitive Grants Fund.
L   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   Sectoral Lessons. The process of articulating a new sectoral strategy for the
Government, and designing appropriate Government interventions in the sector has uncovered
some important lessons:
* The Government's role in extension ranges from the establishment of the regulatory
framework and structure of incentives to the direct provision of services. The Government
should define its role as a pre-requisite to the definition of its extension program.



8
*  Producers in highly productive and wealthier areas will have access to private sector supply-
driven extension services, and are more likely to organize themselves to demand such services.
The Government therefore has a strong role in providing extension services in subsistence and
marginal areas where the private sector is unlikely to act in the foreseeable future.
*  The Government's extension system needs to be systematic, dedicated, and supported by a
strong research establishment.
*  Alternative approaches to extension can be successful. T;he Government should encourage
and finance such alternative approaches, but needs to be careful in selecting and monitoring
them.
*  Opening up the research and extension system by making it responsive to producers groups
demands and externally funding it has the advantage that the system becomes more relevant to
local conditions.
* Once international collaborations are solidified, and the country can benefit from research
conducted elsewhere, the Government may still have an irnportant role to play in funding basic
research.
*  Research quality depends on the quality of human resources - systems and training cannot
make up for insufficient or inadequate education.
36.   Operational Lessons. There are many lessons to leam from a project such as this, which
had a deep-rooted foundation of sector work and preparation, followed by problematic
implementation, significant efforts at restructuring, and eventual cancellation. Some of the
lessons are:
3 If there are chronic problems of project underfunding in a sector, try to resolve those issues
before making a project commitment.
*  Make a determined effort to involve all affected agencies in the process of project design and
preparation.
*  To the extent possible, use existing institutions for project implementation, and mainstream
project activities and components.
*  Recognize the difficulty of designing and implementing projects at a time of significant policy
and organizational change, and seek more frequent, more flexible assistance methodologies.
*  Establish a climate of easy interchange of ideas between the Government and the Bank, so
that changes in policy during project preparation and implementation are discussed with the
Bank, and the projects are adjusted accordingly.



9
* Recognize that a change in management at the implementing agencies will impact the priority
attached to the project, and it may be necessary during implementation to renew the
commitment of new managers to the project's objectives and components.
*  Create an incentive for the project implementing agencies to continue funding the project by
giving the project additionality in the agency budgets.
* Accept the fact that a financial crisis will dominate other concerns, and will force
implementing agencies to re-prioritize. If the project does not receive adequate funding at a
time of financial crisis, cancel the project.
*  Implementation contracts with outside agencies can facilitate project implementation, but
make sure the contracts are clear regarding the responsibilities of these agencies, and are
carefully monitored and audited.
*  Project restructuring is only possible if all the affected agencies are in agreement. If the
agreement of one agency is lacking, cancel the project and seek other vehicles with which to
support the Government.



10
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions



11
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                   0              E              [1               E3
Sector Policies                  O              E                               El
Financial Objectives             0              O              E3               [I
Institutional Development        0              E              0                O
Physical Objectives              °              [El            0                0
Poverty Reduction                E              0              0                El
Gender Issues                    0              E              0                El
Other Social Objectives          0              E              0               1iX
Environmental Objectives         E              0              El               E3
Public Sector Management         O              E                                l O
Private Sector Development       0              O                               E l1
B. Project Sustainability          Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
0l                      0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory       Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                   O                                              El
Preparation Assistance           O                      I3                      E
Appraisal                        0                      IX]                     0
Supervision                      E                      El                      E



12
Hfigbly
D. Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                              E             E             Cl
Implementation                           VI            C             E
Covenant Compliance                      0                           E
iJghly                                      Fh hli
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactorv Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
[1            El             [R1             El



13
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Approval
Loan Title                  Purpose                and             Status
|  Amount
Preceding Operations
1. Integrated Rural      Pilot agricultural development   1978     Closed in 1981 fully
Development Project for the  project in humid tropical areas   US$ 56.0    disbursed. PCR was
Humid Tropics            to improve and expand        million      completed in 1985.
(PRODERITH)              agricultural and livestock   equivalent
Loan 1553-ME             extension programs and provide
support for research.
2. National Plan for Support To support a research program    1981  Closed in 1987 after
to Rainfed Agriculture   and training of extension staff    US$ 280.0   cancellation of US$
(PLANAT)                 for a farm extension program in  million  83.0 million. PCR
Loan 1945-ME             nine rainfed districts with  equivalent   was completed in
provision of farm credit and a            1990.
rural works program.
3. Chiapas Agricultural  An integrated rural development  1985     Closed in 1993 after
Development Project      for Chiapas with agricultural    US $90.0    cancellation of US
Loan 2526-ME             development, construction of    million   $32.0 million. PCR
flood control and road works,   equivalent    was completed in
on-farm development works,               1994.
and production support services.
4. Tropical Agricultural  Support for rainfed crop    1986         Closed in December
Development Project, II  production with drainage and    US $109.0   1995 after cancellation
(PRODERITH II)           road works, on-farm works and  million    of US$ 25.0 million.
Loan 2658-ME             strengthening of farmers'    equivalent   ICR was completed in
associations and extension and           1996.
research services. Train staff
and producers and improve
planning of regional
development programs.
5. Agricultural Extension    Pilot project to test strategies to  1987  Closed on June 30,
Project (PROCATI)        improve quality of extension in   US $20.0    1993, fully disbursed.
Loan 2859-ME             20 of Mexico's Rural         million      PCR was completed in
Development Districts.      equivalent    1994.
Training for extension agents,
researchers, and farmers.



14
Year of
Approval
Loan Title                  Purpose                and             Status
Amount                         l
6. Agricultural Sector Loan  A program of reforms related to  1988  Closed on November
Project                  consumer food subsidies,     US$ 300.0   15, 1990. PCR was
Loan 2918-ME             producer pricing policies,   million      completed in 1994.
privatization of parastatals,  equivalent
trade liberalization, and
decentralization of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
7. Agricultural Sector   Trade and policy reforms to  1991         Closed on December
Adjustment Loan Project II  increase competition and reduce  US$ 400.0   31, 1993. PCR was
Loan 3357-ME             government's role in         million      completed in 1995.
agricultural production and  equivalent
processing and encourage
private sector participation.                                l
Following Operations
1. Rainfed Areas         Support small-scale irrigation    1994    Closing date expected,
Development Project      with transfer of agricultural  US$ 85.0    June 30, 1999
Loan 3778-ME             technologies through private  Million
sector extension and        equivalent
strengthening the capacity of the  e
I executing agency.



15
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned                   Actual Date
Preparation             N/A                    October 20, 1990
December 19, 1990
Pre-Appraisal           N/A                    January 21, 1991
Appraisal               June 17, 1991          June 17, 1991
Initiated November 22, 1991;
Negotiations            January 1992           Completed March 1992
Board Presentation      June 1992              May 5, 1992
Signing                 N/A                    June 17, 1992
Effectiveness           June 1992              September 16, 1992
Replaced by Restructuring Mission in
Mid-term Review         October 1995           December 1995
Project Completion      December 3 1 , 1998    March 12, 1997
Last Transaction on
Loan Closing            June 30, 1999          March 12, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Million)
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998     1999
Appraisal Estimate          7.0      24.2     49.6      78.5    103.4    122.0    139.2    150.0
Actual                        0       8.2     10.9     23.4    23.4*
Actual as % of Estimate       0       34        22       30        23
Date of Final
Disbursement            March 12, 1997
*US $60 million canceled August 1995; undisbursed balance of US $ 66.6 canceled July 1996



16
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Estimate                     Actual (Borrower Data)
Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR     1992   1993  1994  1995 [1996   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996
Research Component
1. North CIFAPs*
Total number of modules            15    17      32                    10
started                                                     _
2. North CIFAPs
Laboratories upgraded               5    16      15                     5
(crops)
3. Center CIFAPs
Total number of modules            20    40      26                    14
started                                                     _
4. Center CIFAPs
Laboratories upgraded               9    18      12                     6
(crops and forestry)                                        _           6
Technology Transfer Component
1. Number of Eligible
Rural Development          50      65    75      75     75     25      40    40
Districts (cumulative)                                      _
2. Training Courses for   235    294   348    343    357    201    163   207
Technicians
3. Training Courses for   553    719   829    838    839    541    367   409
Producers
4. Technology
Demonstration Plots in    305    397   458    458    458    203    612   730   659
the Field
*CIFAP, Center for Crop, Livestock, and Forestry Research (Centro de Investigaci6n Forestal y Agropecuaria).
INIFAP is organized into 34 CIFAP centers which are responsible for managing approximately 100 experiment
centers in the country. These centers are organized into three regional subdirectorates (North, Center, and South).



17
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose Defined at Appraisal      Status          Impact
1. Design of an       Updated library system with  Consultants         None
integrated library system  expanded collection of  identified, but study
for INIFAP            scientific information and   never executed.
capacity to manage collections
and transmit information to
scientists and extensionists.
2. Design of          Develop a MIS to compile     System implemented.  Currently in
Management            agroclimatic and economic data                   use.
Information System    in a unified database withl
research activity data; improve
M&E capacity.                                               l
3. Environmental effect  Define actions to reduce  Initial TOR         None
of agriculture        environmental costs of       established, but
agriculture; build INIFAP's    coordinator never
capacity to study environmental appointed, work not
affairs.                    followed up.
4. Impact of extension    Regular studies of economic    Never completed.  None
and research on       rates of return for agricultural
agricultural productivity  research and relate this
information to costs of research
and extension; allow for
changes in research priorities.
5. Mobilization of non-   Legal and institutional analysis  Consultant never  None
federal funding for   of resource mobilization for  selected.
research              INIFAP.
6. Evaluation of pilot    Develop a strategy for soil  Pilot programs  No
soil conservation     conservation; diffusion of   started in four     information
program and a plan for  known soil conservation    districts, but
implementation        techniques.                  evaluation never
undertaken.



18
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual Estimate (Borrower Data)
Item              Local    Foreign      Total    Local    Foreign       Total
1. Research                    15.6        59.7      75.3       5.3        6.7        12.0
2. Extension                   26.7        29.9      56.6       4.0        5.2          9.2
3. Institutional Development   11.4        17.3      28.7       4.9        8.1         13.0
of INIFAP
4. Incremental Recurrent       81.6        13.4      95.0       3.9        3.4          7.3
Costs
TOTAL Baseline Costs          135.3       120.3     255.6      18.1       23.4        41.5
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual Estimate (Borrower Data)
Source            Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign      Total
IBRD                        46.9      103.1     150.0        9.7       13.7       23.4
Goverunment Contribution   113.8       36.2     150.0        8.4        9.7        18.1
TOTAL                      160.7      139.3     300.0       18.1       23.4       41.5



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS                                                    Covenant Class
C               Covenant complied with                    1. Accounts/audits                                          8. Indigenous people
CD              Complied with after delay                 2. Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. Monitoring, review and reporting
NC             Not complied with                          3. Flow and utilization of project funds                    10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
SOON           Compliance expected in reasonably short time  4. Counterpart funding                                   11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
5. Management aspects of the project or executing agency   allocation
CP              Complied with partially                   6. Environmental covenants                                  12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
NYD             Not yet due                               7. Involuntary resettlement                                 13. Other
Original       Revised
Covenant       Present     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Agreement       Section        Type         Status         Date            Date                   Description of Covenant                           Comment
GUAR            2.02        03             C                                            NAFIN under contractual arrangement with the     Contract established as condition of
Guarantor to transfer to Guarantor proceeds of the  effectiveness
Loan for carrying out the Project.
GUAR            3.01        03,04          NC                                           Guarantor shall provide funds and resources      Budgetary allocation inadequate
required for project implementation. "Due        and seriously affecting project
diligence" covenant.                             implementation. INIFAP has not
allocated any resources to the
l___________                                                     project in 1994 and 1995.
GUAR            3.02        03             C                                            Procurement shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.
GUAR            3.03        09             CD                                           Guarantor furnish, not later than 03/01 each year,  Annual reports received from 1992,
to the Bank a report on the Project.             1993, and 1994.
GUAR            3.04        09             NC                                           Guarantor submit not later than 08/31 of each    Not received for 1995 or 1996.
year starting in 1992, for Bank's review and     Project being restructured.
approval a proposed annual work program,
implementation schedule and corresponding
I________    __________    __________     __________    ___________     budget for the  next year.                       ______________ug tfrt en x_e r
GUAR            3.05(a)     09             NC                                           Guarantor review with the Bank annually, and not  Not in compliance. Project being
later than 09/30 of year, starting in 1992, progress  restructured.
report, proposed annual work plan, and
incorporation of Rural Development Districts for
upcoming year.



Original      Revised
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section        Type         Status        Date          Date                  Description of Covenant                       Comment
GUAR           3.05(b)    09            CD                         12/21/1995     With respect to midterm review to be held in  Mid-term review has been replaced
1994, Guarantor and Bank review progress in  by project restructuring mission in
execution based on, among other factors, the  December, 1995.
Impact Indicators defined in Letter of the
Guarantor to the Bank of 06/17/92.
GUAR           3.06       05                                                      General conditions relating to insurance, use of
insurance, use of goods and resources, plans and
schedules, etc.
GUAR           3.07       05            NC                                        Guarantor maintain in lNIFAP and SARH an     PCU not functioning properly.
appropriate organization structure and staff for
the efficient implementation and supervision of
the project, and maintain the Project Unit with
appropriate functions, structure and staff.
GUAR           3.08(a)    04            CP                                        Guarantor submit to its Congress proposed annual  Annual fiscal budgets for FY96
fiscal budgets for FY 92 and thereafter, each of    submitted, although allocation for
such budgets for FY 92 and thereafter, each of  resources highly inadequate.
such budgets consistent with Guarantor's                                        k
macroeconomics policy framework and with                                        o
adequate allocation of resources to the
Guarantor's agricultural and extension sectors.
GUAR           3.08(b)    11            C                                         Guarantor furnish by no later than 03/15 of each    Evidence reviewed during
year evidence satisfactory to Bank of: (i)   supervision of July 1995.
approved budgetary allocations for the sectors
referred sub. para. 3.08(a) for such year; and (ii)
the expenditures made by the Guarantor through
INIFAP and SARH, in the previous year in
respect of the referred sectors.
GUAR           3.09(a)    10            C                                         Guarantor furnish to the Bank for its approval the   Bank's no objection by its letter of
lIOR for the studies on the productivity impact of  October 20, 1992.
agricultural rescarch and extension.
GIJAR          3.09(b)     10           NC                        06/30/94        Guarantor complete and furnish to the Bank the    Study started, but abandoned.
first phase of the studies of the studies of the
productivity impact of agricultural extension and
research.



Original      Revised
Covenant      Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement      Section       Type         Status         Date          Date                  Description of Covenant                         Comment
GUAR           3.11        10            C                          08131/1992      Guarantor design to Bank's satisfaction the    MIS currently in use.
Management Information System (MIS) and
thereafter utilize the MIS in INMFAP Management
.__________   ___________      begimning not later than  01/01/93.
GUAR           3.12(a)     09            NC                         08/31/1993      Guarantor submit to the Bank: (i) an evaluation of  Evaluation not yet undertaken.
the pilot soil conservation program; and (ii) an
action plan for expansion of such pilot program in
additional districts.
GUAR           3.12(b)     09,10         NC                                         Guarantor implement action plan mentioned sub    Evaluation not undertaken,
GA 3.12 (a) on soil conservation              therefore, no action plan exists on
l_________    __________                                                                  expanding  districts.
GUAR           3.13        10            NC                                         Train and allocate scientific support personnel  There is no ILS.
needed for operating INIFAP's Integrated Library
l________                 .__________   __________                   System s  (ILS).
GUAR           3.14        10            NC                                         Design an ILS for INIFAP in a manner           Ditto.
satisfactory to the Bank, and make the system
l________                 .__________   __________                   operational
GUAR           3.15        05                                                       Enter into agreements for M&E of extension
component.
GUAR           3.16        06                                                       Research involving high risk transgonic
organisms to comply with agreed safety
standards.
GUAR           3.17        06,12         C                                          Apply or cause to apply standards and procedures   Ley Federal de Sanidad Vegetal
for the utilization of pesticides in connection with  1994 and decreto of 1997 govern
extension satisfactory to the Bank and Guarantor   use of pesticides.
GUAR           3.18        10            C                           08/31/1992     Guarantor provide to Bank's satisfaction draft  Bank's no objection by its letter of
TOR for the study of the environmental costs of    October 20, 1992.
l ___________  _________   ___________                                               agriculture.
GUAR           3.18        10            NC                          06/30/1994     Guarantor complete initial phase of study of the    Study abandoned.
environmental costs of agriculture.



Original      Revised
Covenant     Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section       Type         Status        Date         Date                 Description of Covenant                      Comment
GUAR          3.19       05,10         CP                                      Guarantor constitute a Research Grants       Committee convened, but never
Conunittee, having the coordinator of the Project   met.
Unit as its Secretary, which operates in
accordance with procedures agreed between the
Guarantor and the Bank and defined in the rules
of Operation of the Consejo Nacional de Ciencias
|_______ ._________ y Technologia (CONACYT).                                                                                                  l
GUAR          4. 0 1(a/c)   01,03      C                                       Guarantor maintain or cause to maintain records   Records and separate accounts
and separate accounts; (a) adequate to reflect  established for the purpose of the
project operations, resources and expenditures;    project.
and (b) adequate to reflecting expenditures made
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE).  __l
GUAR          4.01(b)    01            C                                       Guarantor have the project records and accounts   Audit report prepared by GOM.
audited for each Fiscal Year, and furnish to the  Sent to bank early July.
Bank not later than 06/30 of each Year the report
of such audit, prepared by independent and
qualified auditors.
GUAR          4.01 (c)    01           C                                       Guarantor ensure that audit report contains a  In compliance.
separate opinion as to whether the SOE can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals
from loan account.
LOAN          2.02(b)    01            C                         12/20/1995    NAFIN open and maintain a special account in  Account Opened.
Banco de Mexico on terms an conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
LOAN          3.01       03            C                                       NAFIN to enter contractual arrangement with the   Contract established as condition of
Guarantor to transfer to Guarantor proceeds of the  effectiveness.
loan for carrying out the project.
LOAN          3.02       09            CP                                      NAFIIN participate in annual reviews which  Annual reports for 1992, 1993, and
Guarantor will hold with Bank not later than  1994.
09/30 of each year, starting in 1992, based on an
annual progress report on the project furnished by
Guarantor to the Bank not later than 03/01 in
each year.



I          I           I            I Original  I  Revised   I
Covenant    Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section   Tfype           Status       Date         Date                 Description of Covenant                    Comment
LOAN          4.01(a)    01           C                                      NAFIN maintain or cause to maintain records and  Special account records and
separate accounts for the Special Account.  separate accounts established for
the project.
LOAN          4.01(b)    01          C                                       NAFIN have project accounts and Special    Audit reports prepared by GOM.
Account audited for each fiscal year, and furnish   Sent to bank early July.
to the Bank not later than 06/30 of each year the
report of such audit, prepared by independent and
l_________                                          qualified auditors.
LOAN          6.01(b)    09,13       CP                                      Guarantor enter into agreement satisfactory to the  SAGAR has contracted IICA to
Bank with qualified agencies to monitor and  carry out specified tasks. lICA has
evaluate Part 8 of the project (technology transfer  not monitored or evaluated the
the rough extension) and provide training related   project.
to it.
Supplemental             09          C                                       Guarantor agrees that Estimated Implementation   In compliance.
Letter                                                                       Indicators and Impact Indicators ref GA 3.05 (a)
Attachment                                                                   and (b) be as defined in Attachment I to the
Letter and no changes to be introduced in said
indicators without prior consent of the Bank.
Supplemental             12          CP                                      Guarantor agrees that eligible Rural Development  Only 14 PROCATI DDRS are in
Letter                                                                       Districts (ref. LA1.02 (f) be chosen from list  project, for a total of 40. No DDRS
Attachment                                                                   presented in Attach. 2 to the letter: (i) in 1992 the  added in 1994 or 1995.
25 DDR of the PROCATI project continue under
the project; (ii) up to 25 DDR be added in 1992.
Names to be communicated to Bank no later than
06/01/92; 15 DDR added in 1993, names to be
communicated no later than 10/01/92, 10 DDR be
added in 1994.



24
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Actual
Stage of Project Cycle      Staff     US $       Staff     US $
Weeks      '000      Weeks    '000
Preparation to Appraisal       10.5      N/A        76.0   151.2
Appraisal                      NIA       N/A         15.3    47.3
Negotiations through Board
Approval                       N/A       N/A        21.8    67.4
Supervision                   30.0      102.8       39.8   163.0
Completion                     11.0      40.0         7.0    23.4
|TOTAL                                              158.9   452.3



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Days
Stage of Project    Month/      No. of       in         Specialist Staff Skills
Cycle           Year       Persons    Field            Represented                Performance Rating'             Types of Problems
Development
Implementation   Objectives
Status Rating    Rating
Through Appraisal   10-11/90        2          9     Agriculturalist
__________       Agricultural Research Specialist
12/90         1         4     Task Manager
1/91         5         17    Task Manager
Agricultural Research Specialist
Agriculturalist
______  Consultant (2)
5/91         3          12    Agricultural Research Specialist
Economist (2)
Appraisal through      6/91         4          12    Economist
Board Approval                                       Financial Analyst
Agricultural Research Specialist
Information Management
_______ Specialist
Missions During        9/92         2          12    Task Manager                          1              1        Lack of work program since
Supervision                                          Agriculturalist                                               awaiting allocation of budget;
re-scheduling of target dates
for action.
3/93         1          5     Agriculturalist                                               Progress on productivity and
l___________                   environmental studies.
l_______________        7/93         1          5     Task Manager                          2              1        Counterpart fund shortfall.
l Ratings: I/HS = implementation exceeds or is filly in accordance with original implementation plan; 2/S = implementation is in substantial compliance with original
implementation plan; 3/U = implementation is not in substantial compliance with the original implmentation plan, but remedial action has been agreed; HU = as in "UI,
but the remedial action has not been agreed.



Days
Stage of Project    Month/    No. of     in           Specialist Staff Skills
Cycle          Year    Persons    Field              Represented                 Performance Rating            Types of Problems
Development
Implementation  Objectives
Status Rating    Rating
Supervision          2/94        3         13    Task Manager                            3             3        Counterpart fund shortfall.
continued                                         Economist
Agriculturalist
7/94        2         6     Division Chief                         U              U        Counterpart fund shortfall;
Task Manager                                                  partial implementation of
previous agreements, lack of
plan to reactivate project.
2/95        3         10    Consultants (3)                                                Development of strategic plan
for technology generation and
transfer.
3-4/95       1        10    Task Manager                                                   Development of the strategic
Economist                                                     plan for technology generation
Consultant                                                    and transfer.
4-5/95       1        13    Economist                                                      Development of the strategic
plan for technology generation
and transfer.
7/95        5        12    Task Manager                           HU             HU        Counterpart fund shortfall;-
Division Chief                                                lack of commitment of GOM
Agriculturalist (2)                                           to project in current form.
Economist
11/95       3         3     Division Chief                                                 Project restructuring.
Task Manager
Consultant
12/95       3         5     Task Manager                           HU            HU        Counterpart fund shortfall;
Economist                                                     unsatisfactory compliance with
Procurement Assistant                                         legal covenants.
1/96       2          5     Task Manager                                                  Project restructuring.
Consultant
1-2/96      1          8     Consultant                                                    Project restructuring and work
on the establishment of a
Competitive Research Fund.



Days
Stage of Project    Month/    No. of      in           Specialist Staff Skills
Cycle          Year    Persons    Field               Represented                 Performance Rating             Types of Problems
Development
Implementation  Objectives
Status Rating    Rating    _
Supervision          2/96         1         10    Task Manager                                                    Project restructuring;
continued                                                                                                         discussions on continuing with
project.
Completion            1/97        2         6     Task Manager
Agriculturalist



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
APPENDIX A
Completion Mission Ayuda Memoria



Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (PIEX - LOAN 3465-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
Ayuda Memoria
January 27, 1997
1.     Mr. Robin Le Breton (Consultant, World Bank) visited Mexico from January 20 to 27, 1997, to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for PIEX. The mission met with officials of
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), the Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarollo Rural (SAGAR),
Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, Agricolas y Pecuarias (INIFAP), and the Intemamerican
Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA). Mr. Lebreton did not have the opportunity to meet with
officials of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito P6blico. A list of persons met is attached as Annex 1.
Mr. Le Breton would like to thank all those concerned for their cooperation and assistance.
2.     Objecdves. The objectives of the mission were to: discuss the implementation of the project
with Govermnent officials, including: the project's success in achieving its objectives, and its
sustainability, actual costs, financing arrangements, and implementation timetables compared to the
original estinmtes; key factors affecting achievement of the major objectives of the project; the
performance of the Bank and the Govermment; the Government's operational plan; and to provide advice
and support for the preparation of the Government's contribution to the ICR. These objectives were
achieved during the mission.
3.     General Conclusions. The agreement for the loan of US $150 million was signed in June
1992. The first years of execution, 1992 and 1993, coincided with a moment when the Govermnent was
beginning a radical reform of the agricultural services sector. It did not therefore assign to the project
the budget that had been planned, and the project was only able to carry out a part of its activities. The
budget allocation for the research component was also restricted as Government was still considering
how this area should be reformed to fit into the overall change taking place in the sector. In 1994 it was
clear that it would no longer be possible to carry out the project as it had been originally designed.
4.     In the spring, of 1995 the Government and the Bank initiated discussions on project
restructuring. On the basis of those discussions, the Govermment requested the Bank in August 1995 to
cancel US $60 million of the loan. At the same time, the Government began a process of review of the
future of agricultural research and extension in Mexico, supported by the Bank through a series of
studies. In December 1995, a Bank review mission visited Mexico to discuss the restructuring of the
project on the basis of the Govermnent's redefined strategy for agricultural research and extension. The
discussions centered around the use of the remaining funds of the loan for the constitution of a
competitive research grant fund, and the strengthening of SAGAR and INIFAP in the management of
research and in the delivery of extension services. After several missions and the review of several
proposals, in June 1996, it was decided to cancel the balance of the loan.
5.     The principal problem the project faced was that it had been designed for a set of circumstances
that very soon ceased to apply. Even by the time the project was declared effective, Govermment was
considering profound changes in the organzation of agricultural extension, with the Federal
Gvernmuent withdrawing from the provision of services. One part would be taken over by state
governments, and arother part transferred to the private sector. When these changes were implemented
over the following years, it became no longer possible to carry out the project in the way that it had been
designed. After the change of administration in 1994, Government's chief priority in the agricultural
sector became the PROCAMPO program to which most of the budgetary resources were devoted, and
this new priority took precedence over those of the project. While these changes affected extension more
immediately than research, the whole future of agricultural research in Mexico was also being
questioned, and the budget for the implementation of the research component was withheld. The
economic crisis of 1995 worsened the overall budgetary situation, and had a negative effect on thc.
budgetary allocation for the project.



Page 2 of 2
6.     Bank supervision reports had rated the project as highly xnsatisfactory in terms of its
disbursement performance and the level of field activities compared with the appraisal estimates. A
large number of the legal covenants were not respected, including one on budget allocation which had
been a condition of negotiation for the loan. The project fell far short of appraisal expectations. In
discussions during this mission, the parties involved have indicated that the modest expenditures on
studies in SAGAR and information systems at INIFAP had been effective in assisting the institutions
involved respond to the changes in the policy environment.
7.     Lessons Learned. One of the lessons that could be learned from project implementation is that
under conditions of major policy changes in circumstances affecting a Bank-financed project, early
communication of the Government's intentions regarding the project is essential.
8.     Operational Plan. Given the highly unsatisfactory implementation of this project, the
Government has not completed an operational plan for its continued implementation after loan closing.
9.     Next Steps. Mr. Le Breton explained to the Government agencies concerned the process ICR
preparation, and offered the assistance of the Bank in the preparation of the Government's submission to
the ICR, where the Government will have the opportunity of responding to the Bank's analysis.
10.    By February 10, 1997, according to the draft tables prepared by Mr. Le Breton, NAFIN will
provide up-dated information on the actual costs of the project, and on the performance indicators,
comparing actual achievements with the appraisal estimates.
11.    By February 14, 1997, the Bank will finish drafting its submission to the ICR, and will forward
it to the Government during the first half of March, after internal Bank reviews have been completed.
12.    Four weeks after receiving the Bank's submission, NAFIN will submit the Government's
submission, which will be either 10 pages or less, or if longer than 10 pages will have an executive
summary. The Government's submission will have the following information:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of
the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship among the borrower and the Bank,
with special emphasis on lessons learned;
13.    Final Disbursement. As agreed with Bank officials, NAFIN will submit to the Bank the
documentation for the final disbursements for the project prior to March 1, 1997, at which time the loan
will be closed and the funds from the Special Account will either be documented or reimbursed to the
Bank.
in Le sreton, Consultant  Mr. Timoteo Harris, N.AFIN
Mr. Carlos Vasquez, SHCP            Mr. Josetuis Verdin, SAGAR



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT (Loan 3465-ME)
APPENDIX B
Borrower Contribution



Page 1 of 12
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA GANADERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE INVESTIGACIONES FORESTALES, AGRICOLAS Y
PECUARIAS
INFORMACI6N PARA LA PREPARACI6N DEL INFORME DE TERMINACI6N DEL
PROYECTO DE INVESTIGAC16N Y EXTENSIWN AGROPECUARIA Y FORESTAL
(PIEX)
1.- Cuadro comparativo de los costos propuestos del Proyecto en el Appraisal
con los costos reales.
Se puede observar en el cuadro anexo, que en el ano de 1992 en el cual se inicio el
Proyecto PIEX, el INIFAP, tenia programado recursos por 39.961.7 miles de pesos
pero se le asignaron un total 36,117.0 miles de pesos los cuales corresponden a un
90.4% de lo programado.
En 1993, se programaron 91,712.6 miles de pesos y solo se recibieron 20,000.0 miles
de pesos que corresponden a un 21.8%, con lo cual se observa una gran restriccion
de recursos hacia este instituto.
En 1994, se tenian programados 75,911.9 miles de pesos, pero no se recibi6 ningun
recursos en ese afo, desde 1992 el INIFAP recibi6 Cinicamente 56,117.0 miles de
pesos de los 207,587.2 que se tenian programados lo cual corresponde a un 27.0%.
2.- Anilisis sobre la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, en comparaci6n con lo estimado en
el Appraisal.
Es conveniente mencionar que a partir de 1994, el INIFAP no tuvo asignaci6n
presupuestal para poder continuar con una mayor plataforma, para poder continuar
el impulso a una mayor cantidad de proyectos e investigaciones, que se venian
desarrollando a traves de los diferentes Centros de Investigaci6n que componen a
este Instituto.
Asi mismo es importante mencionar que el INIFAP cambio la estructura
organizacional y con ello fue cambiando su funcionamiento, por ello se realiz6 una
depuraci6n de proyectos, con lo cual se determino seguir apoyando los mas factibles.
Los cambios ocuridos en las politicas econ6mica, agropecuara y forestal del pais
han determinado cambios importantes en el funcionamiento del Instituto.En la
actualidad se encuentra en un proceso de redireccionamiento, que tendrc
consecuencias muy importantes en su estructura y en sus modalidades de operaci6n.
Se puede definir este punto que la restricci6n presupuestal ha orientado los esfuerzos
institucionales hacia el fortalecimiento de la investigaci6n por proyectos, en donde la
participaci6n de los usuarios se manifiesta en apoyos econ6micos de diversa indole.
3.- Evaluaci6n con los objetivos del Proyecto, el diseffo, la implementaci6n y la
experiencia en su ejecuci6n.
Los objetivos generales del proyecto se desarrollaron como el de mejorar la
productividad y el crecimiento de la agricultura a traves de la generaci6n de nuevas



Page 2 of 12
tecnologias por medio de la gran cantidad de investigaciones que se realizaron y
siguen realizandose, la efectiva extensi6n de tecnologia nueva y existente a los
productores asi como el mejoramiento de la capacidad institucional en servicios de
investigaci6n, extensi6n y asistencia t6cnica.
Los objetivos mas especificos que se realizaron en el INIIFAP fueron los siguientes:
-Fortalecer los servicios publicos y prvados de asistencia tecnica.-
-Desarrollar estrategias apropiadas para la divulgaci6n de las tecnologias
desarrolladas en el Instituto.
-Fortalecer la capacidad institucional del INIFAP en su proceso de modemizaci6n, se
promovieron esquemas partidpativos y competitivos con recursos adicionales de
otras instituciones especialmente la de las Fundaciones, las cuales se encuentran
estrechamente relacionadas en las investigaciones que ilevan a cabo los
especialistas del INIFAP.
-Fortalecer la relaci6n entre la investigaci6n y los usuarios de la tecnologia a traves
de los servicios con los que cuenta el Instituto.
-Se apoyo de manera determinante la formaci6n y capacitaci6n de los investigadores
del Instituto. -
-Se apoyo la elaboraci6n de estudios para fortalecer el andlisis de politicas e
instrumentos de apoyo al sector.
4.- Una evaluaci6n sobre la participaci6n del prestatario durante la evoluci6n e
implementacifn del Proyecto, haciendo 6nfasis en las lecciones aprendidas
En lo que se refiere al INIFAP se lograron avances en varias areas como fueron:
-En la investigaci6n agricola en la cual se liberaron riuevas variedades de granos
b6sicos, se definieron tecnologias de produccion de seniilla.
-En la investigaci6n ganadera en la cual se liberaron sistemas de manejo y
explotaci6n de ganado y producci6n de forrajes.
-En la investigaci6n forestal, en la cual se establecieron viveros, tecnologia sobre
plantaciones comerciales y reproducci6n de coniferas,
-En desarrollo institucional, se adquiri6 equipo de computo y se identificaron
necesidades en informaci6n en bibliotecas y bancos de datos.
En capacitaci6n, se apoyo a tecnicos en estudios de postrado, cursos cortos y
congresos.
En este punto se puede definir que en base a los apoyos que pueda obtener el
INIFAP, mayor sera se apertura hacia la investigaci6n asi como al desarrollo de
nuevas t6cnicas mediante la implementacion de proyectos.



PROYECTOSDEINVESTIGACIONYEXTENSIONAGROPECURJ YFORESTAL
INIFAP
STIMACIONPW('PEWAL
POR CATEGORU4 DE IVIZrSON
CUIADRO11
(MILES DE NS1)
0
r .          CktLPtrT(k l) Iwz                 -        K9          O t  1*3 -       i             PI                                             1TO [ O  AXL-
PROGRA.        LIER-        DIFEREN'    PROGRA-            EJER-   |DIFEREN-    PROGRA-    EjUER-                  DIFEREN-       PROGRA.         EJER-       DIEREN-
CATEGORIA               I     ADO          aao              IA          I AO          CICIO           CIA          MADO          CICIO           CIA            IADO         CICIO           CIA
I                                    .                                     II  _   _ ___( _L _L ____  __________  _  t ___   0 11  ______________________I__31__ )  r__ )1 I
I =IA        -1'AE--.                                                                    i1 iE4   ilb, 6(95) 
1.V7ERSION'                  34.839,1      30.956,0       3.83,1        12.840,0       13.324,0      0.516,0        6.444,9            0,0      65.444,9       153.124,0      44.280,0     13s.34,0
I) OBRACWIL                             1546.1        1546.0            0.1        10137.3           0.0       10137,3         4592,9            0.0        4592.9        16276.3        1546.0        14730.3
2) EQtIPO                                9642,4        9404,0         238.4        20213.8        4542.0        15671,8        22 256.8          0,0       22256.8         52113.0       13946,0       3S167.0
[3) 9EHICUtLOS                          10 533.3     10 200.0         33.3.3       22 642.5          0.0       22 642.5          570,1           0,0         570.1        33 745,9      10 200.0       23 545.9
4)EQtUPODELABORATORIO                    3238.1       2327.0          911.1         9169.6        1517,0        7652Z6        10302.8            0,0       10308.,        22716,5        3844.0        1S872,5
5) ASISTENCIATECNICA                     2677.0       4439.0        (I 76Z0;        4585,        6265.0       (1679.,         4741,7            0.0        4741.7        12004.5       10704,0         1 300,5
6) CAPACITACION Y ESTIUDIOS              7 202,2      3 040,0        4162.2        16 091.0       1 000.0      IS 091.0       22 974.6           0,0       22974.6        46 267,8       4 040,0       42 227,8
RECURREATE                      5.122,6      5161,,                        L ,32.        6676,0        2.196,6       10.467,0           0,0       1.467,0        24.462,2      11.U37,0       12.625,2
'71COSTOSRECURRSNTES                    5122.6        5161.0          (38.4         8872.6        6676.0        2196.6        10467.0            0.0       10467.0        24462.2       11837.0        12625.2
TOTAL                       39.Y6171      36117,0|       3.S44.7       91.712,6      20.00.01       71.712         7911,9!           00        75.911,9       207.56,21      56.117,0!    151.469,2
_1/ COSTOS OME PROYECTO PARA 1iX IM Y M4 VERSIONES DEL 4 DE ABRIL DE ,M2
-2I INFORME DE ACYMDADE3 D      (IMUnX)
_V( WFORME DE ACTMDADES DE 13 (PIEX)
_4< NO SE ANOKA PRESUPUEStO PARA ESTE AO



Page 4 of 12
Igualmente importante es la orentaci6n en la coordinaci6n institucional e intercambio
de experencias con otros centros de investigaci6n, tanto nacionales como
intemacionales, el redimensionamiento institucional tiende a hacer al INIFAP un
centro cuyo tamanio y equipamiento le permita ser mas eficiente y eficaz en la
respuesta a demandas de su quehacer cientifico.
5.-Evaluaci6n sobre la participaci6n del Banco durante la evoluci6n e
implementaci6n del Proyecto, incluyendo el efecto de la relaci6n entre el
prestatario y el banco.
Durante el proceso de negociaci6n para la reestructuraci6n del PIEX, el banco trato
de entender el cambio que estaba sufrendo el pais tanto en lo econ6mico como en lo
politico, con lo cual se trato de adecuarlo a las politicas actuales en matera de
transferencia de tecnologia, se considero implicaba un iproyecto totalmente diferente
por lo cual se pidi6 al Gobiemo de Mexico que elaborara un proyecto nuevo.



Page 5 of 12
ANEXO AL OFICIO NO 212.97.049
DEL 24 DE FEBRERO DE 1997
1. Cuadro comparativo de los costos propuestos del Proyecto en el Appraisal con los
costos reales.
Componente de Transferencia de Tecnofogia
(Millones de d6lares)
ANO       COSTO APPRAISAL   COSTO REAL
1992             12.7             7.7
1993             17.0            12.8
1994             17.0             6.2
1995             15.0             4.7
2. Anclisis sobre la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, en comparaci6n con /o estimado en el
Appraisal.
INDICADORES DE        -       APPRAISAL    -       -    REALIZADOS
IMPACTO                1992  1993   1994  1995  1992   1993  1994  1995
Distrttos de Desarrollo Rural   50    65    75    75    25  40    40    40
Cursos a tecnicos      235   294   348   343   201    163   207    0
Curscs a productores   553   719   829   838   541    367   409    0
Lotes de Demostraci6n de  305   397   458   458   203    612   730   659
Tecnologia
En el indicador Distritos de Desarrollo Rural en el aho 1992, debido al empalme con la
finalizaci6n del PROCATI, el Proyecto se instrument6 inicialmente en los 25 Distritos
que operaron PROCATI, provocando un desfase inicial de 50%. La problematica
enfrentada en los siguientes anios de operacion (descrita en el punto 3), ocasion6 que
se determinara operar solo en 40 Distritos, de los cuales 14 participaron en la
ejecuci6n del PROCATI.
En el indicador de cursos a tecnicos y productores, las causas de variaci6n se
debieron principalmente a ia insuficiencia de la asignaci6n presupuestal para el
programa de capacitaci6n, por lo que las metas operativas anuales fueron ajustadas.
Asi tambien, ia complejidad de tramites para la contrataci6n de instructores extemos
bajo ia normatividad nacional y de operaci6n de credito extemo, limit6 el ejercicio de
este rubro presupuestal. Para el atio de 1995, el programa 3V 04 correspondiente a
capacitaci6n, no fue considerado dentro de la estructura programatica que la
Secretaria de Hacienda autoriza como base para la programaci6n de actividades, lo
que anul6 su operaci6n en ese ano.



Page 6 of 12
El indicador de lotes de demostraci6n de tecnologfa, en el primer arlo estuvo por
debajo de las metas programadas, derivado del problema de asignaci6n presupuestal.
No obstante, en los siguientes aifos se puede apreciar que este indicador fue el que
tuvo mayor impacto en la operaci6n del Proyecto.
3. Evaluaci6n de los objefivos del Proyecto, el diseflo, la implementaci6n y la
experiencia en su ejecuci6n.
Los objetivos establecidos para e/ componente de Transferencia de Tecnologia fueron:
* Diagnosticar los problemas y facilitar la transferencia de nuevas tecnologias
generadas y validadas por los centros de investigaci6n, que incrementen la
productividad y rentabilidad de los productores agropecuarios, a traves de una
asistencia tecnica integral que incida en todo el proceso productivo, asi como
mejorar la organizaci6n, capacitaci6n y administraci6n de los grupos de productores
y mujeres campesinas.
. Fortalecer el servicio de extensi6n para hacer eficiente su vinculaci6n con la
investigaci6n y la demostraci6n de tecnologias promisorias bajo las condiciones
ecol6gicas, econ6micas y sociales en que se desarrollan los productores con menor
capacidad para solventar los costos del servicio de asistencia tecnica.
Entre los productores beneficiados con el PIEX, se logr6 el reconocimiento de las
actividades apoyadas por el Proyecto, en la demostraci6n y transferencia de
tecnologfa, en las practicas de conservaci6n de suelo y agua, en la participaci6n de la
mujer campesina en las actividades productivas, y en el incremento de los
rendimientos obtenidos en los cultivos tradicionales.
Una de las mayores contribuciones del Proyecto fue el desarrollo de capacidades de
organizaci6n e integraci6n de comunidades, lo que provoc6 que el indice de
adoptantes de la tecnologia recomendada fuera amplio en un numero aceptabte de
casos.
El Proyecto propici6 el equipamiento de los DDR's, lo que aunado a la capacitaci6n,
impuls6 el mejor desemperlo del personal tecnico en las actividades a realizar.
En general, los objetivos planteados en este componente se cumplieron en forma
satisfactoria; sin embargo, la ejecuci6n se vio obstaculizada por los problemas de
implementaci6n que se sehialan mas adelante.



Page 7 of 12
El diseflo de/ Proyecto
En relaci6n al diserlo del Proyecto, durante la operaci6n del mismo se hicieron
evidentes algunos problemas de concepci6n. En tanto que la politica sectorial se
orientaba a redefinir el papel del Estado en materia de extensionismo agropecuario, y
se instrumentaron acciones dirigidas a la privatizaci6n de la asistencia tecnica, el PIEX
proporcionaba servicios de extensi6n apoyados en tecnicos de los DDRs, cuyas
actividades principales habfan sido modificadas, por ejemplo para ejecutar el programa
PROCAMPO.
La coordinaci6n a nivel central del personal que realizaba sus tareas en los DDRs, se
limit6 principalmente al manejo administrativo de reportes tecnicos y financieros.
El PIEX operaba en forma paralela y no complementaria con otros programas
emprendidos por la Secretaria. Los problemas de disenio del Proyecto se agudizaron a
partir del cambio de gobiemo, con la estrategia de federalizaci6n de la SAGAR, la
transferencia de los DDRs a los gobiemos de los estados y con la ejecuci6n
descentralizada de la mayor parte de los programas sectoriales.
Los resultados favorables del PROCATI, influyeron en la rapida formulaci6n y
aprobaci6n del PIEX; sin embargo, el entomo en que se desenvolveria el Proyecto se
habia modificado. Parte de los problemas de disenio del Proyecto se originaron en
dicha inercia.
Antes de la Evaluaci6n de Medio Camino, suspendida por acuerdo entre las areas
ejecutoras y el Banco Mundial, era evidente que el Proyecto debfa ser reestructurado.
Hacia este objetivo se dirigieron los esfuerzos de SAGAR y Banco Mundial en el anlo
previo a la cancelaci6n definitiva del PIEX
Implementaci6n
El PIEX se caracteriz6 por su complejidad en instrumentaci6n y ejecuci6n, en cuanto al
numero de gestiones y procedimientos requeridos para contar con los apoyos y cumplir
con los objetivos y metas programadas.
Las categorfas de inversi6n y componentes autorizados, estuvieron sujetos a la
gesti6n para la integraci6n de expedientes tecnicos y aplicaci6n de la legislaci6n en
materia de obras publicas; tramites de autorizaci6n para la licitaci6n y adquisici6n de
bienes muebles y vehiculos; gestiones para la contrataci6n de consultores; tramitaci6n
de autorizaciones para el otorgamiento de estimulos econ6micos al personal distrital;
asi como a la aplicaci6n de la estructura de claves presupuestales y realizaci6n de
adecuaciones para el ejercicio de los recursos.



Page 8 of 12
Esto implic6 gestionar la liberaci6n. de. recursos y tramites ante diversas Areas, con
niveles propios de jerarquia y responsabilidad para la validaci6n del cumplimiento de
la normatividad.
El Proyecto tuvo dificultades para arrancar en el tiempo previsto e instrumentarse
adecuadamente durante los anos- en que oper6, debido a que aun cuando se
realizaron los tramites necesarios para gestionar la asignaci6n de recursos, esta
siempre fue menor a la programada en el contrato de prestamo. Ademas desde el
inicio el retraso en la disponibilidad de los recursos autorizados afect6 la operaci6n del
Proyecto, por el desfazamiento de los requerimientos para la ejecuci6n de este
componente.
La actualizaci6n y readecuaci6n del marco normativo de las acciones del PIEX en los
DDR, desfazaba aun mas la ejecuci6n del componente.
Asimismo, el cumplimiento de los indicadores de impacto sufri6 un desfase, ya que a
los nuevos DDR incorporados en el primer anio, que no habian participado en el
PROCATI, solo se les asign6 presupuesto para obra civil y equipamiento.
La autorizacion del oficio de inversi6n por parte de SHCP y la realizaci6n de tramites
adicionales de no objeci6n ante el organismo financiero, dieron como resultado que se
postergara el ejercicio de los recursos para el otorgamiento de est[mulos econ6micos,
construcci6n de obra civil y realizaci6n de tramites para la adquisici6n de bienes hacia
los iltimos meses del affo.
La saturaci6n de actividades que presentan las Areas Normativas hacia finales del
anio, influy6 en la resoluci6n de asuntos para obtener la autorizaci6n del agente y del
organismo financieros practicamente al concluir el ejercicio fiscal.
Los lineamientos para el ejercicio del cr6dito extemo contratado y la normatividad
nacional presentaron diferencias, especificamente en la definici6n de procedimientos
para la adquisici6n de bienes, licitaci6n de vehicullos y contrataci6n de servicios de
consultorfa.
La vinculaci6n con el componente de generaci6n de tecnologia no se efectu6 en forma
adecuada, por lo que la transferencia de tecnologia se realiz6 en base a la relaci6n
existente de los campos experimentales del INIFAP y los DDR's como estructura
organica de la SAGAR.
El carbcter integral de la asistencia t6cnica plasmada en los Programas Operativos
Anuales de los DDR's, se proporcion6 de forma parcial, debido at retraso en la
radicaci6n de recursos. Asimismo, se presentaron problemas operativos y de
asignacion presupuestal para instrumentar la actividad de capacitaci6n a t6cnicos y
productores, por lo que este servicio no alcanz6 plenamente la interacci6n esperada.



Page 9 of 12
La. instrumentaci6n de un sistema de seguimiento y evaluaci6n, no se concretO
cabalmente debido a los. cambios de personal en las areas ejecutoras, que ocasion6
asimismo, limitaciones para la realizaci6n de un programa continuo de supervisi6n en
la operaci6n distrital del Proyecto.
A pesar de los problemas que dificultaron la instrumentaci6n adecuada del Proyecto,
existieron opiniones por parte de los DDR participantes en el sentido de que la
integraci6n del Programa Operativo Anual, constituyo una herramienta metodolbgica
de planeacion que les permiti6 ordenar y vincular las acciones de los diferentes
componentes del PIEX.
Los cambios en la administraci6n del Proyecto influyeron en el desemperlo de las
acciones, particularmente a nivel Distrital se presentaron obstaculos para la
continuidad del Proyecto ante la frecuente rotaci6n de personal, impactando en el
desarrollo y seguimiento de los programas anuales, asi como en la disponibilidad de
personal t6cnico.
Expeiencia en su ejecuci6n.
Debido a que el sistema de seguimiento y evaluaci6n (SISE) no pudo ser
instrumentado, el seguimiento se realiz6 a nivel central con informaci6n proporcionada
por los Distritos participantes, sobre las actividades contempladas en el Programa
Operativo Anual; esta informacion sirvio de base para elaborar los informes para la
Cuenta de la Hacienda Publica Federal y para Banco Mundial.
No obstante la problematica enfrentada, la operaci6n del PIEX proporcion6 una
metodologia de trabajo para el otorgamiento del servicio de asistencia t6cnica y
contribuyd de manera positiva en la difusi6n de tecnologia en los DDR's beneficiados.
La oferta tecnol6gica ofrecida por los extensionistas, impact6 favorablemente a los
productores, debido a la estrategia de difusi6n apoyada en el establecimiento de lotes
demostrativos con lideres cooperantes, y reuniones con productores que asistfan a la
demostraci6n de metodos y resultados, sistema que propici6 la asimilaci6n y adopci6n
de la tecnologia, y que permitia determinar el impacto sobre la producci6n.
Es claro que la problematica presupuestal y operativa presentada, repercute
desfavorablemente en la ejecuci6n- de cualquier Proyecto. Aiin asi, el PIEX pudo
operarse, los indicadores de los ejercicios anuales alcanzaron como minimo el 88.7
por ciento, Ilegando a un maximo de 98.6 por ciento.



Page 10 of 12
4. Evaluacfdfr sobre la partiapacidn del prestatano durante la evoluacn e
implementacon del Proyecto, haciendo Jnfasis en las lecciones aprendidas.
En opini6n de esta Area, la participaci6n del prestalario fue aceptable, en cuanto al
apoyo y gesti6n de tramites ante el Banco, que esta Unidad Ejecutora efectu6 durante
los cuatro anos en que oper6 el Proyecto.
Los tramites que esta Area realez6 por conducto de la Direcci6n General de Asuntos
Intemacionales, se centrarorr en gestionar las no objeciones de acuerdo a la
normatividad establecida por el Banco para ejercer las categor[as de obra civil,
adquisici6n de equipo y contrataci6n de servicios de consultoria.
En relaci6n con la gestion de desembolsos, se considera que la Direcci6n General de
Programaci6n, Organizaci6n y Presupuesto de esta Secretaria, es el Area mas
indicada para evaluar la participacion del Prestatario en dichos aspectos.
5. Evaluacion sobre la participaci6n del Banco durante la evoluci6n e implementaci6n
del Proyecto, incluyendo el efecto de la relaci6n entre el prestatario y el Banco.
La participaci6n del Banco Mundial fue aceptable. El disenio del PIEX como
continuaci6n del PROCATI fue apoyado adecuadamente en coordinaci6n con las
eiras gubemamentales relevantes.
Las misiones de supervisi6n se realizaron cada seis meses por lo menos y el personal
del Banco mantuvo contacto con el ejecutor del Proyecto, asimismo, se efectuaron
visitas de campo para verificar los avances del PIEX en diversos DDR's, elaborando
para ello recomendaciones y sugerencias sobre su ejecuci6n.
En relaci6n a los tramites realizados por el ejecutor para solicitar adecuaciones a los
lineamentos normativos, como fue el caso de la categorfa de obra civil, falt6 agilidad
de respuesta, lo que indujo el desfazamiento de las gestiones de desembolso de la
documentaci6n comprobatoria.



Page 11 of 12
SECRETARIA DE AGRICULTURA GANADERIA Y DESARROLLO RURAL
SUBSECRETARIA DE DESARROLLO RURAL
COORDINACI1N GENERAL DE EXTENSIONISMO Y DESARROLLO TECNOLI-GICO
Informaci6n para la preparacl6n del Informe de terminaci6n del Proyecto de
Investigaci6n y Extensl6n Agropecuaria y Forestal (PIEX).
1.- Cuadro comparativo de los costos propuestos del Proyecto en el Appraisal con los costos
reales.
Esta area t6cnica no cuenta con la informaci6n.
2.- Analisis sobre la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, en comparaci6n con lo estimado en el Appraisal.
CONCEPTO         REALIZADO EN       ESTIMACION EN       VARIACIONES
1996           Staff Appraisal
_____________                 Report. 96
Distritos de               0                  75                (75)
Desarrollo Rural.
Cursos de                  0                 357                (357)
Capacitaci6n a
Tecnicos                              _
Cursos de                  0                 839                (839)
Capacitaci6n a
productores     _
Demostraciones de          0                 458                (458)
Campo
Presupuesto                0                 15.0              (15.0)
(Millones U.S.D.)
No se realizaron actividades operativas durante 1996 en virtud de la solicitud de cancelacid6n del
cr6dito.
3.- Evaluadl6n de los objetivos del Proyecto, el diseho, la implementaci6n y la experiencia en su
ejecuci6n.
Los objetivos del PIEX manejados en el Loan Agreement de fortalecer la productividad
agropecuana y lograr su crecimiento a traves de: la generaci6n de nuevas tecnologlas como
resultado de la investigaci6n, la transferencia de tecnologlas existentes y nuevas a los
productores, a trav6s de los servicios de extension y el fortalecimiento do la capacidad institucional
del INIFAP, fueron en su momento y siguen siendo en Ia actualidad objetivos validos para
fomentar el desarrollo agropecuario, no obstante los medios, mecanismos y procedimientos para
Ilegar a ellos son en este momento diferentes a los quo so tenian cuando el proyecto fue
concebido.
N



Pag-$ 12 of 12
Un ejemplo de los cambios que se han dado en estos medios, mecanismos y procadimlentos es
sin lugar a dudas la actual concepci6n de los servicios de extensionismo y asistencla t cn ica, los
cuales si bien siguen siendo el medio id6neo para acelerar los procesos de adopci6n acno6gica
por parte de los productores, a diferencia de la etapa en ia cual se planeo el proyecto en la que
estos servicios eran otorgados a los productores mediante personal oficial exclusiva¾ente, se
encuentran en este momento constituidos por profesionistas y despachos de la ini1caliva pnvada
contratados directamente por los productores, mediante un mecanismo de apoy dio renciado
para que estos ultimos puedan pagar los servicios; Todo ello Inmerso en of pr-eso de
Federalizaci6n con una participaci6n activa de los Gobiemnos Estatales, en el maroo de is Alianza
para el Campo.
El diseiho del Proyecto desde el punto de vista t6cnico y especificamente ern C&^anto a la
componente de transferencia de tecnologla considera una serie de elementos de las mabdologlas
internacionales de trabajo de los servicios de extensionismo, no obstante, no se incduven otros
como son el trabajo directo de los extensionistas con lideres productivos, la realizaidOn de giras de
intercambio tecnol6gico, la asesoria directa de especialistas a los extensionistas, la
responsabilidad del t6cnico de atender grupos de productores de breas geogr6ficas especificas
(V.gr. Comunidades, microregiones, grupos de intercambio y desarrollo tecnok6co-, etc.);
estimamos que un servicio de extensionismo ya sea p6blico o privado, que reOna estos elementos
tiene mayores posibilidades de lograr el cambio tecnol6gico y el desarrollo de las cpacidades de
los productores.
Dados los cambios de ejecutor, el proceso de reestructuraci6n planteado en su mormenato y la
decisi6n sobre la cancelaci6n del Proyecto, esta Coordinaci6n General no particlp6 direcamente
en la fase de implementaci6n del Proyecto y por tanto no cuenta con experiendias er S e$ zuci6n.
4.- Evaluaci6n sobre la participacd6n del prestatario durante la evoluci6n e implemenmzad6n del
Proyecto.
Dentro de la fase en la cual le correspondio a 6sta a ml cargo participar en el PIEX sUs a >A4.dades
se encaminaron al analisis y elaboraci6n de propuestas para ia reestructuraci6n del Peazto.
Cabe destacar que los trabajos para esta reestructuraci6n iniciaron el mes de maro de ' 995 por
la ejecutora en ese tiempo, y que esta Coordinaci6n General se integro al proceso de ngociaci6n
en el mes de Septiembre del mismo affo, a partir de esa lFecha y hasta el mes de na, d-'e 1996;
fecha en que se envi6 al Banco la propuesta oficial de reestructuraci6n del Pmrc'yscto sus
actividades dentro del mismo se limitaron a lo expuesto en el pbrrafo anterior.
5.- Evaluaci6n sobre la participaci6n del Banco durarite la evoluci6n e imnpierner-Kein del
Proyecto, incluyendo el efecto de la relaci6n entre el prestatario y el banco.
Durante el proceso de negociaci6n para la reestructuraci5n del PIEX, mismo qua se sea sta en el
punto anterior, se cont6 con el apoyo de funcionarios del IBanco, desafortunadarente ic-A cambios
quo al mismo se propusieron para adecuarlo a las pollticas actuales en materia da transferencia
de tecnologla, al proceso de Federalizacion y a la Alianza para el Campo, se conside9r. mnplicaban
un proyecto radicalmente diferente por lo que se nos Indico la convenienc:a de slaborar
A     "aceleradamente" un nuevo proyecto.



