Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9782-ME   Type: (SAR)                        Repon No. 9782-ME
MCINTIRE, / X31893 / I-7107/ LA2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
APRIL 13, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
ITis document has a restrided distribution and my be used by recipients only In the perfomnce of
their officiid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bn autodrzason.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1             =       Mex$3,070
Mex$1 million    =       US$326
(April 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)       =    0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)         =     10,000m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2) =    0.38 square miles (mi) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)   =    2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGESAF   =  Direccion de Estudios del Sector Agropecuario y Forestal
INIFAP    =  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y
Agropecuarias
NAFIN      =  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PROCATI =  Agricultural Extension Project
SARH       =  Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIAT!'JNS AND ACRONVMs
ALBAMEX           Mexican Livestock Peed Company
(Alimentos Balanceados de Mexico)
CADER             Agricultural Support Center, located in Rural Development Districts
(Centre do Apoyo para el Desarrollo Rurl Integral)
CENID             Disciplinary Research Center
(Centro Nacional de Investigaci6n Disciplinaria)
CIAT              Intemational Center for Tropical Agriculture
(Centro Intemacional de Agricultura Tropical)
CIPAP             Center for Crop, Livestock, and Forestry Research
(Centro de Investigaci6n Forestal y Agropecuaria)
CIMMYT            International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
(Centro Intemacional de Mejorarniento de Mafz y Trigo)
CINVESTAV         Center for Research and Advanced Studies
(Centro de Invastigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados)
CIP               International Potato Center
(Centro Intemacional de la Papa)
CONACYT           National Council of Science and Technology
(Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologfa)
CONADECA          National Cocoa Development council
(Comisi6n Nacional de Cacao)
CONAFRUT          National Commission for Fruit Crops
(Comisi6n Nacional de Frutioultura)
DGESAF            Directorate General for Agricultural and Forestry Sectoral Studies
(Dircoci6n General do Estudios del Sector Agropecuario y Fo-vestal)
DCSA              Sub-Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation
(Subdirecci6n de Conservaci6n de Suelos y Agua)
DOR               Rural Development District
(Distrito de Desarrollo Rural)
FIRA              Trust Fund for Agriculture
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relacion con la Agricultura)
PICART            Trust Fund for Rainfed and Irrigated Areas
(Fideicomiso para Crddito en Are  de Riego y do Temporal)
IARC              International Agricultural Research Center
ICARDA            International Center for Agricultural Research in Dryland Areas
ICRISAT           International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IICA              Interamerican Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution *and n v be   *d hy r-' 'uanta r ilv in t .   fnrr  r -o 



(Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion pars la Agricultura)
IMPA             Mexican Sugar Cane Production Institute
(Insituto pars el Mejoramiento de la Produccion de Azucar)
IMTA             Mexican Institute of Water Technology
(Instituto Mexicano de Tcenologfa del Agua)
INPAP            National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, y Agropecuarias)
INMECAFE          Mexican Coffee Institute
(Instituto Mexicano del Cafe)
NAFIN             National Finance Institution
(Nacional Financiers, S.N.C.)
PACIME            Progrm of Support for Science in Mexico
(Programa para ei Apoyo a la Ciencia en Mcxico)
PLANAT            National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Areas
(Plan Nacional de Apoyo a la Agricultura de Temporal)
PROCATI           Agriculture Training, Extension and Research Program
(Programa de Capacitaci6n, Agistencia Tc¢nica c Inveadgaci6n)
PRODERITH        Program for Integral Development of the Humid Tropics
(Programs de Desarrollo Rursl Integral para el Tr6pico Hdmedo)
PRONASS          National Seed Producer
(Productora Nacional de Semillas)
SARH              Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretarfa de Agriculturm y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SECOGEP           General Secretariat of Comptrollers of the Federation
(Secretaria de la Contraloria General de la Pederacion)
SNI               National Scientist System
(Sistema Nacional do Investigadores)
SOB               Statement of Expenditure
TABAMEX           Mexican Tobacco Company
(Tabacos de MExico)



MEXICO
AGRICULTURLAL TECHNQ1GI PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................... i
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ....................................                                                         1
A. Issues Affecting the Agricultural Sector .............................                                      1
B. Policy Context  ..........    ..................................   3
II.   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION ........................                                                       4
A. Government Agricultural Technology Strategy ..........................  4
B. Research  .            ................................................   5
C. Extension   .             ..............................................    10
D. Related Subsectors ..........................................   13
m. THE PROJECT ................................................                                                        14
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................... ...    14
B. Project Objectives                  ..........................................    16
C. Project Description   ..............17
1. Technology Generation through Research.                                                          17
2. Technology Transfer through Extension  ........................   19
3. Institutional Development for Agricultural Research .................  22
D. Project Costs and Financing                        ....................................    24
1. Costs   .............................................   24
2. Financing ........................................... 27
E. Project Organization and Management ........................... ...   28
1. Project Agencies  ......................................   28
2. Project Unit  .........................................   29
3. Procurement .........................................   29
4. Disbursement  ........................................   30
5. Audit  .............................................   31
6. Supervision by the Bank .................................                                        31
F. Project Benefits                  ............................................    33
G. Environmental Issues                       ........................................   34
H. Project Risks                  ..............................................    34
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... ........... 36
A. Agreements Reached ......................................... 36
G. Recommendations  ..........................................   38
This report is baed on the findings of a World Bank appraisl misuion which visited Mexico from June 17 to June 30, 1991. The miision
was composed of Mesrs./Mmes. John Mctir. (Task Mager), Silvis Casro, Dirk van der Sluijs, Matthew McMahon of the   Bank, as
wel as Matin Swter of FAO/CP and the following cunultant: Robert Etheredgo, John Nickel, and Mrhi Pin. Me. Saah Crow assted
in the production of tis report. Country Department Dirctor, Rainer Steckhn. Division Chief, Michael Baxier.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex I    Executive Summary of the Agricultural Technology Sector Review   ....                   .......  39
AnnexII    Project Costs .            ............................................   56
Annex m    Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements ..........................  63
Annex IV   Project Implementation and Impact Indicators .........................  64
Annex V  Project Unit . .............................................. 69
Annex VI  Consultancies and Collaborative Research  ...........................   70
Annex VII  Selection of Extension Districts ..................................  72
Annex VDI Soil and Water Conservation               ................            ...................  76
Annex IX   Management and Scientific Information Systems  .......................  78
Annex X    Resource Mobilization  .......................................   82
Annex X]  Supervision Plan ............                    ...............................   84
Annex XH   Government Policy Letter .....................................   86
MAP    IBRD 23465
Working Paper
1. The Role of Mexican Universities in the Generation of Agricultural Technology
2. Training in the Project
3. Agricultural Research Management
4. Soil and Water Conservation
5. Library and Information Systems
*. Available upon request.



AGRULTURAL TECHNOLOGYX ROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Quarantr:           United Mexican States
BeneficiaSm:        Secretaria de Agricultura y de Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH);
Research community; recipients of public extension services.
Executing AgePcie:  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias (INIFAP)/
Direccion General de Estudios del Sector Agropecuario y Forestal (DGES.AF)
of the SARH
Am==nt              US$150 million equivalent
Tenns;              Repayment in fifteen years, including a three-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.
j Sejt Qbigziyes:    Objectives of the project are to: (a) assist in the generation of technology for
crops, livestock, and forestry production, and natural resource management,
with applied and adaptive research. Emphasis would be on products and
regions where private research is weakest; (b) validate technology using
adaptive research in collaboration with the extension service; (c) transfer
technologies to producers via extension; (d) improve the capacity of public
institutions to generate, validate, and extend new technologies by
strengthening their ability to identify problems, manage scientific problems,
and use research results from external scurces; and (e) establish a sustainable
improvement in funding for agricultural research and extension, including
more cost-sharing with, and cost recovery from, the private sector.
PrTect com e        The operation would have three components, as follows: (i) the principai
component would be technologg generation through research (US$163.2
miillion in total cost). The executing agency would be INIFAP. The research
areas include crop improvement and management, livestock management,
forestry, and natural resources. Research priorities would include maize,
beans, rainfed wheat, rainfed rice, fruits, vegetables, oilseeds, and some
livestock and forestry commodities. A program of adaptive research to
validate promising results would be done in close collaboration with the
extension services. Other sub-components would comprise seed production
methods, natural resources (mainly soil conservation), and genetic resources.
The component would support investments in research, including training,
station development, vehicles, farm equipment, laboratories, scientific
libraries, computing and communications, and other facilities; (ii) TeghnpQogy
transfer thIrough extension (US$102.7 million). This component continues the
Project for Training, Technical Assistance, and Research (PROCATI: Loan
2859-ME) now implemented in 25 of 193 rural development districts (DDR)
in Mexico. The executing agency is the DGESAF. Activities would be
on-farm trials to validate promising technologies, staff training, technical
assistance and training to producers, and soil conservation, many of which
would be executed in close coordination with INIFAP. Investments would be
made in vehicles, farm equipment, communications and computing equipment,
and training. As with PROCATI, incremental recurrent costs would be
financed, including staff salaries, in an expanded program of technology



- ii -
demonstrations. The project would operate in 75 DDRs, including the 25
covered by PROCATI, located mainly in the poorer areas of Mexico, with
particular emphasis on rainfed production and chosen with criteria agreed
between the Lank and the Government of Mexico; and (iii) 1siblioQnal
development of INIFAP (US$34.1 million): This component would better the
institutional capacity of INIFAP, assist in mobilizing resources via
cost-recovery from state and local governments and from the private sector;
promote work on environmental and sector productivity issues; broaden the
intellectual base of agricultural research and strengthen INIFAP's links to
basic research; give specialized advice to agricultural scientists; and provide
more scientiflc and technical information to INIFAP staff. Subcomponents
would: (a) create a research management information system (MIS),
furnishing data about benefits from individual programs and helping priority
setting; (b) provide materials and training to improve INIFAP's libraries and
scientific information systems; (c) support other programs, including
long-term technical assistance to mobilize non-federal funding from
public-private partnerships; a study of the environmental and productivity
impacts of agricultural research and extension leading to recommendations
about research priorities; endowment of research bv Mexican universities and
other qualified organizations in collaboration with INIFAP; assistance to
INEFAP's research networks, to reduce duplication and to provide specialized
guidance; and augmented institutional capacity in communications, computing,
and training.
Cot and
Finang Plan:         Total project costs are estimated at US$300.0 million. Project baseline cost is
US$255.6 million, with US$9.5 million for physical contingencies, and
US$34.9 million for price contingencies. US$150 million would be provided
by the World Bank loan, and US$150 million by the Government of Mexico.
Of the total project cost, US$186.0 million will be for investment, and
US$114.0 million for incremental recurrent costs.
Benefits:            Expected benefits would be development and/or increased use of more
productive methods for crop, livestock, and forestry management, increased
capacity to generate new methods, and transfer of technology. Examples are
higher-yielding plant cultivars, superior management techniques for crops,
livestock, and forestry, better targeting of public research and extension, and
faster adoption by farmers of new methods. These benefits would occur
principally on the country's 17 million hectares of rainfed c-rop land, and to a
lesser extent on the 7 million hectares of irrigated land. Institutional benefits
would be from lower management costs and more efficient resource
allocation. Another benefit would be a broader, more stable, funding base
from public nonfederal and private sources. Beneficiaries of the project will
be crop, livestock, and forestry producers in rainfed and irrigated areas, with
emphasis on rainfed. The research and extension components would benefit
producers of basic foodgrains and oilseeds (maize, beans, rice, rainfed wheat,
and oilseeds), tropical fruits and vegetables, livestock, and forestry products.
Scientific and technical staff would benefit by receiving training financed by
the operation. As many benefits would accrue to poor producers and women
farmers, the project is anticipated to have a positive impact on poverty and on
improving the role of women in agriculture.



- iii -
Risak:               Typical risks in this sort of project, as suggested by Bank experience world-
wide, have been lack of operating budget and failure to set research and
extension priorities. Overall operational risks in Mexico have included lack
of budget and excessive management turnover. The operation avoids those
risks by committing the government to an explicit agricultural technology
strategy which expresses understanding of the need for adequate budget, to
creating a qualified and stable project unit, and to allocating resources to
priorities agreed during appraisal. Other risks are: (a) failure to adopt
'available' technologies for crop, livestock, and forestry production and in
soil conservation; (b) sustainability of the extension reform program; and (c)
faflure to change seed policy, thus hamnering the development and transfer of
crop production technology based on the use of improved crop cultivars. The
Government has recently revised its seed policy and is expected to take under
the project, steps to reduce the technology adoption risk and to further reform
its public extension service.



- iv -
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Ege
Local/               Exchang              lQtal
A. Reseah
Laboratories                              1.0                   6.6                7.6
Regional sites                           14.6                  53.1               67.7
Subtotal                                15.6                  59.7               75.3
B. Extensio                               26.7                  29.9               56.6
C. !situtional Development of INIF
Libraries and
scientific information                   4.6                    2.1                6.7
Research management                       2.8                    1.2               4.0
Other support programs                    4.0                   14.0              18.0
Subtotal                                11.4                  17.3               28.7
D. Incremental recurrent costs
Research                                 51.1                   10.7              61.8
Extension                                29.8                   2.6               32.4
Institutional development of INIFAP       0.7                   0.1                0.8
Subtotal                                81.6                  13.4               95.0
Total baseline costs                     135.3                 120.3              255.6
Physical contingencies                     4.9                   4.6                9.5
Price contingencies                       20.5                  14.4               34.9
Total project costs                      160.7                 139.3              300.0
Financingi Pia                           Local                ForeignTo
--(I S$ million)-
Federal Government                       113.8                  36.2              150.0
IBRD2'                                    46.9                 103.1              150.0
Total                                    160.7                 139.3              300.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$millionL:
Bank FY           1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    I199      1999
Annual             7.0'3    17.2    25.4      28.9     24.9      18.6  . 17.1    10.9
Cumulative         7.0      24.2     49.6    '78.5    103.4    122.0    139.1    150.0
Retroacdve financing: Costa of no more than US$10 million incurred after lune 7, 1991 would be eligible.
Rate of rturn: not applicable.
1/ Including duties and taxes of USS 32.1 million.
21 Excluding duties and taxes of USS 32.1 million.
3/ Includes US$7 million for the Special Account.



. I -
1. THE AGRICULTAL S!ECTOR
1.01.    After rapid expansion from the end of World War II, Mexican agriculture has grown only
weakly since the mid-1960s. Its disappointing performance is attributable to restrictive government
policies, a decrease in the rate of irrigation development and a failure to generate and transfer
appropriate technologies for much of the rainfed and tropical regions of the country. While strong
policy and institutional reforms under the last two governments (1982-88; 1989-present) have bettered
the incentive structure, agriculture's performance is well below its potential.
A. Issues Affecting the Agricultural Sector
1.02.    Value added in Mexican agriculture is only 9 percent of GDP, or ITS$15.9 billion in 1988
prices. Annual and perennial crops typically furnish 60-65 percent of the value of agricultural
production, livestock 30 percent, and forestry, fishing, and hunting the rest. Within the crop
subsector, cereals accounted for 44 percent of the value of agricultural output in 1988, oilseeds
5 percent, fruits, vegetables, and legumes 29 percent, sugar cane 7 percent, fibers 5 percent, and
coffee and cocoa 6 percent. What are known as 'basic crops' in Mexico-maize, beans, wheat, rice,
and sorghum-occupy on average about 11.5 million hectares of the roughly 16 million hectares in
annual crops. Within the livestock subsector, cattle contribute about 52 percent, swine 27 percent, and
poultry 17 percent. Of the value of cattle output, 38 percent comes from milk and 53 percent from
beef. The subsectoral shares of crops, livestock, and forestry have changed little since 1950.
1.03.    The sector's annual growth rates from 1940 to 1964 were robust: an average of
4.6 percent overall, 5 percent in crops, 2.6 percent in livestock, and 3.9 percent in forestry. The
historical pace of growth wa' maintained by expanding cropped area, shifting rainfed to irrigated
land, and raising yields sigmificantly in some crops. Other factors contributing to growth were
widespread adoption of new plant cultivars, accelerated mechanization and greater use of chemical
inputs. From very low initial levels, aggregate fertilizer use rose nearly 5000 percent from 1950 to
the mid-1980s, and about 2000 percent per hectare. Tractor use also grew dramatical:y on aggregate
and per unit of land. Those capital inputs displaced agricultural labor; the latter grew only about
25 percent on aggregate from 1950 to 1985, and in fact fell about 45 percent per hectare.
1.04.    Agriculture slipped as a source of economic growth after the mid-1960s and only attained
2.6 percent annually from 1966 to 1987. While agriculture provided about 18 percent of the value of
GDP in 1950, it fell to about 8 percent at the end of the 1980s. General factors harming agricultural
growth were economic disincentives to efficient production and the collapse in investment associated
with the crisis in public finances in the 1980s. The aggregate effects of policy on growth were
negative, causing a near-complete stop in agricultural growth by the mid-1980s. Recent governments
have improved inuentives, with support from two Bank Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans
(Loan 2918-ME and Loan 3357-ME).
1.05.    The previous rapid growth in Mexican agriculture was partly due to the expansion of
irrigation. While irrigated crops now occupy only about one-third of cultivated land, they account for
48 percent of the value of agricultural output and their productivity is high by international standards.
When irrigation costs per hectare rose in real terms and the rate of expansion of irrigated land sell
from 3.4 percent to 2.1 percent, overall growth suffered. From 1950 to 1966, irrigated land grew by
194,009 hectares annually; from 1967 to 1985, it grew only 126,000 hectares annually. Some of the



-2-
decline in growth Is further attributable to a slow;  wn in the expansion of cropped area, as the rate of
urea expansion fell from 2.8 percent in 1950 to 1965 to 0.3 percent in 1966 to 1987.
1.06.     The structure of Mexican agriculture and its recent pattern of weak expansion pose strong
challenges to agricultural technology. While cultivated area Is less than 23 million hectares, or about
one-eighth of the national territory, possibilities for extending cultivated area and for raising cropping
intensity are increasingly scarce. As the scope for further land expansion will be very limited,
Mexico's agricultural growth strategy will need to rely more on yield-increasing measures.
1.07.     The sharp disparities between irrigated and rainfed agriculture in Mexico create different
clients for research and extension. Differences in the extent of irrigation by region create gaps among
those regions in the crops grown and in productivity from them'. For example, irrigated crops
(wheat, sorghum, irrigated rice, soybeans, and winter vegetables) provide 80 percent of the value of
regional output in the north, 50 percent in the center, but only 10 percent in the south.
1.08.     In addition to the challenge of restoring growth with progressively less additional land,
Mexican agriculture has a complex production pattern, with variations corresponding to agroclimate,
irrigation, and farm type. Agroclimates vary in rainfall, altitude, temperature, soils, and pest and
disease incidence. Thos, factors affect the crops that can be grown profitably as well as the
possibilities for transferring successful production techniques from one zone to another. For example,
major crops in the north are irrigated wheat, temperate fruits and vegetables, soybeans, temperate
forages, cotton, and irrigated maize. Major crops of the center are rainfed maize, beans, and
sorghum, with some irrigated crops (sorghum, maize, vegetables) being sown in the high central
valleys. Maize, beans, and tropical crops (e.g., spices, coffee and cocoa), livestock, and forestry
dominate in the south. Even the crops grown throughout the country-notably maize, beans, and rice-
-have distinct plant types, cycles, and pest susceptibilities. Livestock and forestry encounter similar
technical difficulties. Such environmental variability renders agricultural technology generation and
transfer all the more costly.
1.09.     Further complicating the problems of heterogeneous agroclimates and differences between
irrigated and rainfed agriculture is that of complex farm types. The most productive farn x ie
typically larger, mechanized, irrigated and use modern production techniques. the less - -oductive
farms are smaller, use more labor, are generally rainfed, and have lagged in adoption of modem
methods. Many of the smaller farms are eido, a special type of land tenure with restrictions on land
alienation, in which agricultural progress has typically been slower than on larger farms. In maize,
which covers 40 percent of the annual crop area, relatively few farmers have the most irrigated land,
use most purchased inputs and achieve the best yields. The same is true of other major crops such as
beans and sorghum. The heterogeneity of the target farming populations renders the research and
extension systems more expensive, as technical packages must be refined more precisely for different
farm types.
I The north includes the states of Baja California Norte, Baja California Sur, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo
Leon, Sinaloa, Sonora, and the regions of the Comarca Lagunera and North Tamaulipas; the Center includes the states of
Aguasaientes, Colima, the Federal District, Guanajuato, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nayarit, Puebla,
Queretaro, San Luis Potosi, Tlaxcala, and Zacatecas; the South includes the states of Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero,
Morelos, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, Tabasco, Veracruz, and Yucatan, and the region of South Tamaulipas.



-3-
B Poligy Cgntext
1.10.    Since the 1950s, Mexican govervmnents have intervened strongly in agriculture with many
direct and indirect measures. Production controls, fixed prices, irrigation investments, directed
credit, subsidized inputs, quantitative restrictions on imports of inputs, and parastatal companies were
common policy instruments for many years. While the net effects of policy varied among products
and regions, overall they harmed the sectoral terms of trade by holding producer prices down, made
agriculture less competitive by setting productioi targets and imposing trade barriers, and inhibited
agricultural investment by displacing private initiatives.
1.11.    Previous agricultural technology policy was consistent with that of general economic
policy. Past policy harmed private generation or transfer of agricultural technology, except through
use of technologies embodied in imported inputs or in plant materials developed abroad. Some key
act;ivities, such as plant breeding and seed production, were reserved for the public sector, thereby
hampering private technology generation. Fiscal incentives were provided to inputs, notably water
and agrochemicals, thus distorting farmers' production decisions and interfering with the transfer of
technologies which would have been economically efficient without such incentives.
1.12.    The economic crisis of the 1980s ultimately led to drastic changes in public agricultural
policy. Both Mexican administrations after 1982 have attempted to change the balance of agricultural
incentives and to reform the public sector. They improved agricultural incentives by causing the real
exchange rate to fall sharply and by improving the sectoral terms of trade. The state rationalized
public agencies in production, marketing, water, seeds, and agricultural finance, among others, by
privatization, legal, and regulatory changes. Among the eliminated parastatals are CONADECA
(cocoa), CONAFRUT (fruit production and marketing company), TABAMEX (tobacco), and
ALBAMEX Qivestock feed). Parastatals in coffee production and marketing (INMECAFE), sugar
(IMPA), and seeds (PRONASE) were cut sharply. The Government further attempted to reduce the
role of the public sector in agriculture by cutting the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH), in essence forcing a large-scale privatization of many of its services. While those
reforms are incomplete, and some protection and input subsidies remain, the policy changes lowered
agricultural protection, made it more neutral, and stimulated private investment in production and in
input supply, thus bettering the climate for renewed agricultural growth. *
1.13.    Changes in agricultural technology policy have followed those of macroeconomic policy.
With the elimination or reduction of public enterprises in cocoa, coffee, fruits, seeds, tobacco,
livestock feed, and with an expansion in private extension services, the Government has succeeded in
putting more emphasis on private generation and transfer of new methods. Public agricultural
research and extension have been obliged to make sharper decisions amnong competing priorities.
Remaining public agencies are obliged to expand cost recovery and to concentrate most on problems
which cannot be addressed by the private sector. More foreign participation has been encouraged in
importing technologies for Mexican agriculture (see para. 2.35 about the recently enacted Seed Law)
and intellectual property regulations have been otherwise modified to lighten burdens on the foreign
and domestic private sectors.



- 4 -
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
A. Government Agricultural Technology Strategy
2.01.     The Government's agricultural policy is summarized in the 'Program for Agricultural
Modernization', which is based on its overall Program of Scientific and Technological Modernization.
The Government has provided a succinct statement of its policy for agricultural technology
(Annex XII), which is summarized below.
a. Backgriound. The Government's strategy recognizes the falling rate of agricultural
productivity growth, particularly in slower increases in crop yields per unit of land and the
unavoidable limits on expansion of agricultural land and the recent deceleration of
irrigation development as factors having caused the slowdown in sectoral growth. These
factors create a need for agricultural intensification to achieve greater productivity per unit
of land and other inputs. This intensification would occur, however, at a time when tight
constraints on the fiscal deficit impose careful selection of appropriate public investments
in terms of the amount of public expenditure, the balance between the public and private
sectors, the need for greater efficiency in the public sector, and appropriate links to the
private sector, academic institutions, and international organizations. Beginning in the
early 1980s, the Government cut public agricultural staff sharply and the remaining
institutions are now much smaller than they were ten years ago.
b. Obiectives in the agricultural technology subsector. The Government's main objective is to
develop, adapt, and transfer profitable agricultural technologies which can be used by
producers and contribute to renew sustainable agricultural growth and to make Mexican
goods more competitive internationally. In all production regions, it is recognized that
revived growth has to come from higher resource productivity, and not from land
expansion, as it did in the past. In irrigated areas, this would come about through
development and transfer of new technology, and through greater water use efficiency. In
rainfed areas, is would also require generation and transfer of new technologies adapted
to the more ccmplex conditions of such agricultural environments. Because the
Government recognizes that the actual and potential role of the private sector is greater in
irrigated areas and on larger farm holdings, a further strategy objective is to concentrate
public efforts on poor and small-scale producers, and on rainfed areas. With respect to
agricultural extension, a further objective is to make the public service more efficient by
providing greater resources, superior staff training, and in some cases by transferring
extension to producers' organizations and to private firms, and increasing cost recovery.
c.  Instrumnts. The strategy proposes to apply several instruments. The public sector would
undertake research and extension in collaboration with the private sector, notably
producers' organizations, with specialized international organizations, and universities.
The public sector would work on areas of less interest to the private sector-especially
those of rainfed and tropical agriculture, and those where producers are poorest-and
where the private sector lacks full economic incentives to do research and extension (see
para. 3.01). The private sector would co-finance some research centers and manage
others entirely, notably for high-value export crops. The universities would be mainly
responsible for basic research and training. International organizations would provide key
scientific inputs (for example, material for national plant breeding programs), in-service



training, and specialized advice in some scientific fields. The Government would achieve
greater efficiency in public sector investment by a sharper definition of priorities and
closer monitoring of research impact in output, productivity, employment, and
international competitiveness.
d.  R       . The strategy recognizes the need for expanded funding for research and
extension. It proposes a gradual expansion of public funding and measures to achieve
greater efficiency in the use of public resources. Greater private financing would be
elicited through co-financed projects with the private sector, better cost-sharing from the
private sector for some services, and continued privatization of some public and parastatal
enterprises. The resources of Mexican universities and international organizations, such as
the International Agricultural Research Centers, would be used to provide training and
some specialized technical assistance.
B. Reearch
2.02.     Mexico has a successful tradition of agricultural research and extension. Research has
contributed to higher yields in wheat, maize, sorghum, rice, vegetables, and dairying, among others.
The joint effects of research and extension have assisted with the rapid adoption of imported
technologies. Productivity of some irrigated crops is among the highest in the world; in the better
rainfed production areas, research and extension have helped to raise output substantially. Economic
rates of return for research on wheat, maize, sorghum, and potatoes have been calculated at between
70 and 104 percent. Hence, current institutions begin from a strong intellectual base in assisting
agricultural growth.
2.03.     Despite the historical successes in agricultural research and extension, their contribution to
productivity has fallen in recent years. A 1990 Bank Sector Report (Report 9297-ME) identified
barriers to public technology generation and transfer as lack of funding, inappropriate priorities,
management issues, seed policy, and others affecting individual commodities.2 Key conclusions from
that report, which has been reviewed and accepted by the Government, are as follows.
2.04.     Research organization. The principal research entity is the National Institute for Forestry,
Agriculture and Livestock Research (INIFAP), which was formed in 1985 by amalgamating
previously discrete institutions for crops, iivestock, and forestry, which had existed in various forms
since World War II. INIFAP has a clearly defined and well-known mandate to: (i) implement the
national agricultural research strategy; (ii) develop technologies that reduce costs of crop, livestock,
and forestry production; (iii) validate experimental results under producers' conditions; and
(iv) communicate results to extension agencies, the private sector, and producers. INIFAP's legal
status is that of a partially decentralized body within SARH; it is not an independent juridical entity,
but has significant managerial autonomy and can receive funds from federal and nonfederal sources.
2.05.     INIFAP is organized into 34 state Centers for Crop, Livestock and Forestry Research
(ClFAPs). This organization by states replaced the previous one by agroclimates as part of a
successful decentralization in 1985. The CIFAPs, which are directly responsible for managing about
100 experiment stations throughout the country, work closely with the state and local representatives
of SARH. Although there are three regional (north, center, and south) subdirectorates through which
the CIFAPs report to headquarters in Mexico City, INIFAP's organization is not unduly complex in
2 The Excutive Summary of that Report is provided in Annex 1.



that the number of levels between the field and central administration is small. National disciplinary
centers (CENIDs) in microbiology (Mexico City), parasitology (Morelos), agroclimatology
(Durango), physiology (Queretaro), and wood technology (Puebla) conduct specialized work. The
CIFAPs and CENIDS have appropriate scientific, administrative, and budgetary autonomy, including
freedom to plan and execute programs, evaluate results and staff, and enter into agreements with
producers or other sources of private funds (Working Paper 3').
2.06.    INIFAP provides thematic and disciplinary focus to its program through research
networks, which are groups of scientists and technicians working on a common problem, or group of
problems, in crops, livestock, forestry, and disciplines (e.g., plant pathology). Each of the 46
existing networks has a national coordinator and three regional coordinators, but no administrative or
managerial responsibility. The networks now serve mainly to organize scientific meetings (both in
INIFAP and outside) working on common problems. While the idea of the networks as scientific
associations is valid, its application within INIFAP has been weak because there are too many
networks with few resources. INIFAP is now combining some of the networks with the goal of
reducing their number by about half, which would be sufficient. The project would specifically
allocate resources to network activities, such as planning and scientific meetings, training, and visits
to field sites by network coordinators for consultations with other network members
(see para. 3.33.c).
2.07.    Research resources. After rising to about 0.8 percent of agricultural GDP in 1983,
agricultural research spending contracted sharply with the government budget cuts of the mid-1980s.
In 1989 and 1990, INIFAP's annual budget stabilized in 1989-1991 at about US$45 million, or less
than 0.3 percent of agricultural GDP. Given that INIFAP's spending is about half of the total, the
national figure would be 0.6 percent, which is very low compared to the United States (2.7 percent),
Mexico's main competitor in agriculture, and also low compared to countries at more similar income
levels. Even when Mexican public research spending was higher in the 1960s and 1970s, it was small
in comparison to spending by other Latin American countries and developed countries (see Annex I).
The operation would help to raise the level of public spending by committing the Government to
adequate annual budgets for research, extension, and soil conservation activities to be supported by
the operation. The Government's annual budget submission to the Congress of Mexico would be
communicated to the Bank no later than September 30 of each year, and the annual budget actually
approved by the Congress would be communicated to the Bank no later than March 15 of the budget
year (see para. 4.01.j).
2.08.    About 85 percent of INIFAP's budget is for staff costs, a figure which is too high. From
1982 to 1985, most of the rest was for operational costs with very little for investment and
maintenance and since 1985, there has been almost no budget for investment or for maintenance. The
budget cuts of the 1980s particularly damaged the CENIDs' working capacity as they depend most on
modem scientific equipment. A scarcity of non-salary funds has reduced scientific productivity, and
prevented INIFAP, and institutions like it, from maintaining or modernizing their physical capital,
and INIFAP's infrastructure is now badly degraded. In addition, key support staff in some areas have
left and not been replaced for lack of funds. The project would assist in raising the shares of
investments and non-salary recurrent costs to more acceptable levels (see Table 1 in Chapter 3 and
Annex II). The Government agreed to train and reallocate staff for scientific support and scientific
information which have remained vacant (see para. 4.01.b).
I See J. Nickel (consukant), "Reseach Management in INIFAP", project Working Paper 3.



-7-
2.09.     INIFAP has an extensive, if somewhat dilapidated, physic,' infrastructure. Staff manage
about 61,000 hectares in experiment stations, of which 14,000 are in crops, 34,000 in livestock, and
13,000 in forestry. There are five major laboratories (CENIDs) and many smaller ones throughout
the country. These facilities are adequate as there is enough land for a nationwide research program
covering the major crops and agroclimatic zones, but inadequate in that they have lacked funds for
maintenance and new equipment. The project would provide funds for rehabilitation, maintenance,
and limited new construction for INIFAP's infrastructure (see para. 3.13).
2.10.     Some 80 to 90 percent of INIFAP's budget is from the federal government, the remainder
being provided by state and local governments, producers' organizations, and service fees. While the
nonfederal sources grew in the 1970s, like public spending, they fell again in the 1980s. INITFAP
managers at the state and research station levels can raise funds from other sources, including
agreements with private enterprise, but such contributions are generally small. The potential from
other sources is high in some states; for example, the CIFAP of Sonora gets 43 percent of its total
budget, which is one of the largest, from a patronato (a public-private partnership) and from the state
government. Technical assistance under the operation would help INIFAP raise the contribution from
patronatos and from state and local governments (see para. 3.33.e).
2.11.     Related to lack of funding is the slow shift of priorities to solve problems of the rainfed
and tropical areas. The historical emphasis in public research was on irrigated agriculture, with good
success. This is now less efficient as a growth strategy, because of problems in adapting irrigated
technologies to rainfed agriculture, the lack of private research and extension in poorer rainfed areas,
and the rising cost and falling rate of irrigation development. The operation would allocate a greater
share of incremental resources to the rainfed and tropical areas in recognition of the fact that private
research and extension are not adequate in those regions, and that imported techniques would be less
easily available (see para. 3.11).
2.12.     INIFAP has about 1,900 scientific staff, of which 15 percent are in training (Working
Paper 24). Many staff are recruited without having finished a complete course of scientific training.
About 45 percent have the first university degree or less, 45 percent have the master's degree and
10 percent have doctorates. The share of INIFAP staff holding doctorates is small for a country of
Mexico's sophistication and appears low compared to that of other Mexican agricultural research
institutions, notably the universities where working conditions are better. Lack of training has
prevented many staff from improving their productivity and has forced many to leave. The operation
would assist in rectifying this situation by financing training for scientists and other INIFAP staff at
both the academic and in-service levels (see para. 3.19).
2.13.     In addition to INIFAP, agricultural research institutions in Mexico include seven principal
public and private universities (Working Paper 15), a few private organizations, two principal
remaining parastatals, IMPA (the Mexican Institute for Sugar Production) and INMECAFE (the
Mexican Coffee Institute), and the International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs). Domestic
and foreign private research consists of applied work in crop improvement, agricultural chemicals,
livestock, veterinary drugs, and machinery. Parastatal enterprises, which were once important in
sugar, cocoa, and tobacco, among others, have now been disbanded. Several IARCs-notably the
International Center for Wheat and Maize Improvement (CIMMYT), the International Crops Research
Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), the Intemational Center for the Agricultural Research
4 See M. MacMahon, "Training in the Project", project Working Paper 2.
6 See D. van de Sluijs, 'University Research", project Working Paper 1.



- 8 -
in Dry Areas (ICARDA), the Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), and the International Potato
Center (CIP)--work closely with INIFAP, supplying germplasm of wheat, maize, potatoes, beans,
pastures, rice, sorghum, chickpea, cassava, and lentils, as well as assisting with agronomy and
training.
2.14.     Though the principal function of most Mexican agricultural universities is teaching, some
are active in research. Principal areas of study are agronomy, livestock production, plant/soil/water
relations, and plant breeding, with several working in biotechnology. Despite the fact that the quality
of the research is high, and closer collaboration with public research institutions would be fruitful,
their research priorities are independent of INIFAP's and coordination is not close. Moreover,
INIFAP lacks resources to contract domestic expertise for solving specific problems with collaborative
research and no incentive mechanism exists to encourage universities to work on INIFAP priorities.
The operation would promote agricultural research in Mexican universities and other qualified
agencies on INIFAP priorities by providing a flexible and competitive mechanism for allocating
research grants on some specialized topics in which Mexican universities and other qualified entities
have a comparative advantage (see para. 3.33.b and Annex VI).
2.15.     Research programs. Nearly all of INIFAP's work is applied or adaptive. While basic
research is limited, there is some in the universities and at specialized centers, such as the one for
biotechnology at the Center for Research and Advanced Studies (CINVESTAV). To the extent that
universities and other centers, like the Colegio de Post-Graduados, do basic research, they do so
mainly in plant breeding, physiology, parasitology, and soils. A significant weakness of INIFAP's
program, its limited contacts with Mexican and other institutions doing basic research, would be
addressed by the operation (see para. 3.33.b).
2.16.     In the past, research priorities were on the main food crops with irrigation. Because most
crop varieties released by INIFAP and its predecessors were for irrigated production, they had their
best effects in irrigated areas, albeit with some spillover of breeding techniques and genetic materials
into rainfed sites. However, the decreasing rate and increasing cost of irrigation development,
coupled with the disappearance of new rainfed land to cultivate, now necessitate an intensifilcation for
higher yields on irrigated sites as well as a shift in emphasis to raising yields on rainfed lands.
Because the continuation of past priorities is inadequate to improve productivity in the rainfed and
tropical areas, the operation concentrates additional resources on those areas (see para. 3.11).
2.17.     INIFAP has recently revised research priorities in a strategic planning exercise. This
involved defining five principal agroclimatic zones (dry tropics, temperate, humid tropics, sierras, and
arid/semiarid). Within each zone, production systems were classed by principal crop, production
component, and major problems. Problems were grouped as mainly research or extension issues; for
the former, experiments were planned and resources allocated accordingly. This planning did not
include university or other research. One outcome of the strategic planning exercise was a program of
experiments by region and commodity. Of the approximately 10,000 planned experiments for 1990-
1994, about 25 percent are expected in the north, 50 percent in the center and 25 percent in the
south. Of the 1990-1994 experiments, 44 percent are in basic crops (grains and oilseeds), 18 percent
in livestock, 18 percent in exportables, 10 percent in resource use, and 10 percent in others. Planned
work for 1995-99 would have 27 percent of experiments in the north, 42 percent in the center, and
31 percent in the south. This shift is consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's sector work
and would be further promoted by this operation (see para. 3.11).



- 9 -
2.18.     Sector work (Annex I) concluded that research methods and priorities had sometimes been
inappropriate, and identified problems of research and technology transfer with individual
commodities, as indicated below.
a.  Though genesis of new plant cultivars has continued for at least 40 years, many important
crops grown over a wide area still use unimproved cultivars. In maize, which is Mexico's
most important crop, research and extension have failed to transfer high-yielding cultivars
from te experimental stage to production. In grain legumes and oilseeds, adaptive
research has failed to use results of basic research, while technology transfer has not
always moved promising results to farmers. While some of this is due to poor seed policy
(see para. 2.34), some is also due to an excessive reliance on plant breeding as a research
technique. While breeding has been a successful technique, it cannot solve all problems in
technology transfer and a complementary research orientation is required, with additional
resources for adaptive agronomic research, which would be supported by the operation
(see para. 3.11).
b.  In irrigated areas, competition for water among grains, oilseeds, and high-value fruit and
vegetable crops is an issue of growing importance. The project would assist work on
water-use efficiency to alleviate this competition (see para. 3.15).
c.  In livestock production, too little work has been done on forage and other forms of
primary production relative to animal health. This is inefficient because while animal
health research is largely a private activity, forage production research would be mainly
public. The operation assists in the re-orientation of much of INIFAP's livestock research
toward primary production (see para. 3.16).
d.  Too little study of natural resources and the environment has been made, notably of soil
ca)nservation, forestry, and integrated pest management. Costs of environLental
degradation are thought to be high, but there are no adequate means of calculating them
and of dedicating research and extension resources to their solution. While the best
known issue is soil degradation, other natural resource issues will grow in importance as
demands for agricultural land and water rise. The operation would assist in designing and
implementing a series of new studies and subsequent follow-up actions on the
environmental costs of agriculture (see paras. 3.18 and 3.32.b), as well as reinforcing
current INIFAP work on soil conservation, forestry, and other natural resource
management issues.
2.19.     Research management and scientific information. Though research management has been
of good quality, and while previous reforms have improved organization, decentralization, and
planning, INIFAP lacks tools to manage a complex research system working with many commodities,
disciplines, and regions. While the basic framework of INIFAP's own performance evaluation system
is solid, management lacks information on costs and the means to relate them to scientific activities.
Research networks alone cannot avoid duplication, eliminate lack of focus, or bring special experience
on common problems in sharply differing production systems. Other challenges-establishing better
collaboration with other research institutions, working more closely with extension, lowering the
environmental costs of agriculture (see para. 3.18)-also impose new demands on management. The
operation would support a management information system (MIS) to monitor research activities-in
terms of costs and staff time-in an integrated manner with research outputs-such as numbers of plant
cultivars released and their impact on crop yields (see para. 3.32.a). It would further support



- 10-
management with studies of the environmental and productivity impacts of agricultural research and
development, and with training.
2.20.     Lack of access to scientific information has hindered the efforts of INIFAP and others to
use research methodologies and results generated elsewhere. The budget crisis stopped acquisition of
books, journals, and other printed materials, and blocked investment in the new computer-based
information technologies. In addition, INIFAP lacks trained staff in information technologies
(Wolkine Paer 59) The operation would improve human and physical capacity in libraries and
scientific information (see para. 3.31 and Annex IX), providing quicker access by INIFAP and other
scientists to outside information, and better transmission of such information within Mexico.
2.21.     Research program evaluation. INIFAP's method of evaluating its programs provides a
start for measuring results with different commodities and regions and for evaluating the productivity
of individual scientists (see Working Paper 3). The method measures progress in implementing
programs by numbers of experiments or other indicators of scientific activity, such as cost. It
measures the impact of research by reference to target productivity gains attributable to specific
practices-for example, higher crop yields resulting from new agronomic practices. Because the
relation between implementation indicators and productivity is known to be inherently imprecise, the
research targets are reviewed periodically as part of INIFAP's regular evaluation procedures. The
project would support a study of the effects of research and extension on agricultural productivity to
provide standards against which to judge research programs (see para. 3.32.c).
2.22.     INIFAP scientists are further evaluated as part of the National Researchers System (SNI)
using criteria established by the National Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT; see
Working Paper 1). These criteria are partially biased toward nonscientific activities, such as
attending meetings and coordinating programs, which do not directly reflect scientific productivity.
However, the application of the criteria is transparent and consistent. Moreover, good performance
based on those criteria is tied to additional compensation to scientists. The Bank is satisfied that the
evaluation criteria, and the resulting extra compensation, provide adequate stimulus to scientific
productivity in INIFAP so that no further action would be required under the project to improve
evaluation and compensation of INIFAP scientific staff.
C. Extension
2.23.     Until the beginning of the 1980s, a highly centralized public sector dominated the
provision of technical advice to producers, and the role of the private sector, either through firms,
individuals or cost recovery for services rendered by public agencies, was small. Beginning in the
early 1980s, there were pronounced changes in Mexican agricultural extension, including
decentralization, cuts in public staffing, changes in cost recovery policies, and changes in rules
affecting delivery of extension services, with the net effect that the former weight of the public
service is now much lighter. In 1984, there were roughly 21,400 technical assistance staff in SARH
and other public agencies, such as the agricultural financial intermediaries, and parastatals. By early
1991, that number had fallen to about 14,300, with SARH and other staff each falling by about one-
third. Many of the departed staff now work in the private sector.
2.24.     Reforms in extension. A 1984 Bank review (Report No. 5255-ME) of SARH and
parastatal extension criticized inadequate extension administration, farmer participation, methodology,
6 Se M. Pisa (consultant), 'Agncultural Libraries', project Working Paper 5.



- 11 -
training, extension/research linkages, and the time allocation of the extensionist. It proposed a
reorganization of the extension service and corresponding changes in its methodology. As part of the
broad reform of the government's role in agriculture, and pardy in response to the Bank's review,
SARH has since implemented major extension reforms. These were to:
a.  decetitralize the extension service by moving most of it out of the central SARH ministry
into its state delegations, and create DDR out of the formerly separate irrigation districts
(DR) and the rainfed districts (DI), and give them budgetary responsibility;
b. create a generalist extension worker position, providing training and specialized technical
advice from the subsecretariats of crops, livestock, and forestry;
c. relieve the extension worker of some nontechnical responsibilities; and
d.  give extension work a sharper diagnostic focus and strengthen research-extension linkages.
2.25.     Some of the reforms were successfully implemented. The extension service was
decentralized and unified DDRs were created. A generalist extension worker position was created.
Some of the nontechnical jobs of the extensionist were eliminated. A training and visit (T&V)
methodology was adopted in the 25 pilot districts of the PROCATI project to give more diagnostic
content to extension. Formal research-extension linkages were built between SARH and other
agencies; INIFAP produces publications for farmers and extension workers and its scientists give
training courses for extensionists, both activities a principal source of information to extension staff.
INIFAP livestock production modules, done jointly with the Post-Graduate College and the Mexican
Water Technology Institute (IMTA) are widely employed to demonstrate new technologies to
producers and to receive information from them.
2.26.     Current situation. SARH has roughly 8,330 staff extension staff, or about 60 percent of
the estimated total public and parastatal extension staff. All supply technical assistance and training to
producers, deliver some services directly on occasion (e.g., supervising soil conservation works) and
assist producers' organizations. The Agricultural Trust Fund (FIRA) provides technical assistance
through staff (775 technicians), commercial banks (3,327), and a program for low-income producers
(1,111). FIRA helps with technical assistance, training, and supporting farmers' organizations. Its
staff, who have similar training to those of SARH, demonstrate crop and livestock technologies in
collaboration with INIFAP, seed companies, and farmers. The Trust Fund for Rainfed and Irrigated
Areas (FICART) has loan appraisers/extension workers with the same training as those of FIRA or
of SARH who give technical assistance in crops, livestock, fisheries, fruit production, and
agroindustries. The coffee (INMECAFE) and sugar (IMPA) parastatals have small research and
extension programs. Priorities of the main agricultural banks, FIRA and FICART, are more diverse,
reflecting their more commercial clientele. While those financial intermediaries do provide technical
assistance to farmers producing basic grains and livestock, they work more on agroindustry, cash
crops, and aquaculture.
2.27.     Despite the slackening in research, productive technologies exist but are not transferred to
producers due to inadequate extension. The extension system has lagged because it has been beset by
similar problems of resources, methods, and staff as the research system, and several priorities for
reform remain. Much of the historical focus of extension was on irrigation; while irrigated agriculture
is more complex than rainfed, it is also more easily developed and thereby invites greater private and
producer participation. Hence, an intensification of public extension in the rainfed and tropical areas



- 12 -
is required, but will be more costly. A series of actions to achieve that re-orientation is described
below.
2.23.     While some of the shortfall in public spending has been compensated by a transfer of
responsibilities to the private sector, the remaining public service is still too weak. Many SARH
extension staff have left to seek better working conditions, and the remaining ones often lack financial
resources and working materials. Funds for public extension are inadequate to achieve desired results
in rainfed and tropical areas, even considering the contribution of the various private and parastatal
entities working there. Examples are lack of vehicles to manage on-farm trials and to work with
producers' organizations, lack of communications equipment and materials to provide farmer training,
lack of funds to pay for staff participation in professional courses, and low salaries, which make it
difficult to retain staff and to motivate them to work in some rural areas. Restoring some of the
funding to public extension has been a principal goal of the PROCATI project and would be
continued under the loan (see para. 3.20).
2.29.     The priorities of SARH extension are now basic food grains and livestock. These
priorities are appropriate in that most of the public extension goes to poorer farmers; this is
complemented by the work of FIRA and FICART on the more valuable commodities produced by
farmers who are more able to pay for their extension services. The Government has completed a
study of private extension and the choice of DDRs for the operation has been made on the basis of
that study in order to target public extension towards areas in which private extension is weakest. The
operation would further reinforce the capacity of the SARH public extension service in poorer areas,
in terms of incremental resources and additional training to better staff quality, while leaving the more
productive areas to private extension (see para. 3.20).
2.30.     SARH extension staff do not always have adequate academic training. About one-fourth
have a professional qualification, usually a first degree in agronomy. Nearly 60 percent followed
technical studies of between 12 and 15 years of schooling. The remainder completed preparatory
education only. In addition, many of the staff with more academic preparation are concentrated in the
better areas, thus neglecting the more difficult problems of the poorer regions. For example, a SARH
review of the quality of extension field staff, found that half of the least-qualified staff were working
in the south which accounts for only about one-third of its total extension staff. The operation would
address the staff training issue by providing training to extensionists in technical fields, farm
management, and advising producers, and by giving them better access to specialized technical
support (see para. 3.25).
2.31.     Go-ernment efforts to privatize extension and to recover more of its costs from producers
have proceeded quickly with the agricultural financial intermediaries. Cost recovery is estimated at
30 to 40 percent in the irrigated rural development districts though it is much less in the rainfed ones.
Cost recovery is complete for the privaie input suppliers, well advanced in FIRA, but almost nil in
FICART, INMECAFE, and IMPA. The agricultural financial intermediaries have more ambitious
goals for cost recovery: while FIRA now recovers nearly 40 percent of all costs of technical
assistance from low-income producers, it intends to obtain 100 percent and FICART seeks eventually
to recover 30 percent of salary costs. Given the Government's progress in shifting extension to
beneficiaries, its commitment to targeting extension supported by the project to poorer farmers, and
the change in policies of the agricultural intermediaries, no further action is required under the project
to extend cost recovery for public extension. The Government has noted its objectives for private
extension in the agricultural strategy statement (see para. 2.01).



- 13 -
2.32.    A lack of a roblem-solving focus in extension meant that advice was often not based on a
diagnosis of farmers' problems. This was related to the Government's imposition of output targets on
producers. Given such targets, extensionists were not usually trained to diagnose farmers' problems.
Such diagnosis has been a vital aspect of Bank extension operations throughout the world. In Mexico,
it has been used successfully in the PROCATI project (see para. 2.25) and would be applied on a
broader scale under the operation, through a continuous strengthening of field demonstrations done in
collaboration with researchers and participating farmers (see para. 3.24).
D. R,elated Sgbsectors
2.33.    Tbe seed set. Technologies embodied in crop cultivars developed through modern
plant breeding have accelerated agricultural growth in many countries. In Mexico, they have done so
in wheat, maize, sorghum, rice, oilseeds, and cotton, among others. Hence, an efficient seed
production and delivery system is a crucial complement to research and extension. Despite the
importance of seed-based techn.ologies, their full potential has not been realized, either in the area
planted or in yields realized at the farmers' level. Much of the area in maize and beans, in particular,
is planted with unproductive local cultivars.
2.34.    Public policy has caused some of the lag in developing and using improved seeds. A
parastatal company (National Seed Producer-PRONASE) was created in 1960 to develop breeders
seed into commercial cultivars, and to sell them to producers. The government provided subsidies,
trade protection, and regulatory protection to PRONASE until 1989, when most of those measures
were lifted in an attempt to reduce the fiscal transfer to the company. Despite government support,
PRONASE was never able to supply the majority of the market with commercial seed. PRONASE's
efforts to monopolize seed production and distribution blocked the diffusion of cultivars developed by
Mexican scientists and restricted the import and local adaptation of foreign plant materials. In
addition, farmers often complain of the quality of PRONASE seed and they are sometimes unable to
adopt cultivars developed by INIFAP because of difficulties in producing commercial seed from
breeders' seed.
2.35.    An inefficient seed sector would be a serious impediment to the operation, as much of its
productivity impact is expected from adoption of higher-yielding cultivars. The Government has
recently reformed its seed policy to eliminate barriers to higher productivity from improved plant
cultivars. A new seed law, enacted in June 1991 and part of the conditionality of the Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3357-ME), ended restrictions on private plant breeding,
which now requires SARH approval only for work with specific risky transgenic organisms. The new
law allows INIFAP to provide improved cultivars to anyone without prior approval of SARH. Other
clauses permit greater freedom to import commercial cultivars and plant breeding materials, subject
only to phytosanitary regulations. PRONASE's mandate has also been reduced from 23 crops to
maize, beans, wheat, and rice alone, leaving the others to the private sector. Elimination of public
subsidies has forced PRONASE to compete more equally with domestic and foreign private firms.
These reforms have created a more favorable climate for the ultimate commercial use of materials
originating in the Mexican public agricultural system, and have eliminated major obstacles to the
expected favorable impact of the operation. A remaining issue is the insufficient capacity of INIFAP
to produce basic and foundation seed for later commercial development by private firms; the
operation addresses that by financing investments in production of foundation and breeders' seed for
INIFAP (see para. 3.11).



- 14 -
2.36.     Soil conservation. Erosion is known to reduce agricultural productivity in much of
Mexico. There is a great deal of information about the magnitude of soil loss to erosion, its
distribution in the various agricultural regions of Mexico, and its relation to cropping patterns and
farming techniques. The benefits of erosion control are significant (Annex VIII and Working
Paper 4) and would justify investments in structures, cropping practices, and extension to obtain
them.
2.37.     Though many techniques exist to control erosion at the farm level, they are often not used
because of lack of extension to farmers. The costs and returns to many other techniques which might
be employed are insufficiently understood, moreover, for lack of adequate research. The needed
research and extension on soil conservation problems would not be done by the private sector because
it lacks economic incentives to do research on techniques which it cannot fully appropriate. The
private sector further lacks incentives to inform farmers about such techniques because it cannot
recover costs of providing information.
2.38.     A central directorate for research, extension, and on-farm works managed the
Government's soil conservation policy until it was disbanded in 1985. It was not replaced by a
functioning unit until 1991, when the Directorate for Soil and Water Conservation (DCSA) was
created. Hence, the problems affecting this subsector are that it has a weak central institution,
research results do not provide adequate guides for making extension recommendations to farmers,
and the extension service itself lacks specialized expertise and other resources to transmit available
recommendations to producers. The operation would address the institutional, research and extension
issues by strengthening the central agency (the DCSA) which gives soil conservation advice to
extensionists and farmers, beginning a more intensive pilot soil conservation program in rural
development districts with severe erosion (see para. 3.27), and by research on soil conservation
issues (see para. 3.18).
M. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01.     The justification for public agricultural research and extension resides mainly in the fact
that some of the fruits of research and extension are public goods. Private agents therefore do not
have full incentives to invest in stich goods as they cannot receive the full return on their investment.
Such incentive failures, for example, explain uiuch of the underinvestment in agricultural research as
evinced by rates of return well above rates on other investments. This general rationale for public
research and extension is stronger in Mexico's diverse agroclimate where many agricultural
enterprises cannot be improved with imported techniques. Imported methods would either not have
been developed at all for Mexican agricultural conditions or would require substantial local adaptation
before being able to surpass techniques which are already available in Mexico. Public subsidies,
rather than full cost recovery from producers benefitting from research and extension, are also
justified by the way in which benefits from research and extension flow to consumers via long-term
commodity price decreases resulting from technical change. Either such benefits are quickly reflected
in the prices of nontradable commodities, or they are seen more gradually in declining imports of
traded goods, and, eventually, in falling world prices of traded goods as technical changes diffuse
internationally. Hence, technical change benefits consumers and they should logically share in its
costs. To realize these benefits, both to producers and to consumers, sustained public investment is
necessary. Bank support would assist in sustaining public investment, and in reorienting it to more
efficient uses, in line with the Government's objectives for agricultural technology
(see para. 2.01.b.).



- 15 -
3.02.     The operation is a logical extension of the Bank's role In assisting reform of Mexican
agriculture. That role has consisted of assisting a move towards freer trade, a greater role of the
private sector, and reduced distortions in incentives. Those moves are expected to stimulate a supply
response, which in the long run would also depend on a continuous flow of new agricultural
technologies. Bank-supported operations, now under implementation or proposed, address the major
constraints to agricultural growth in Mexico and thus complement the project. A second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan supporting elimination of major distortions in the agricultural trade and
incentive regimes, was approved in FY91; a proposed Rural Financial Subsector Loan would support
reforms in the public agricultural credit and crop insurance systems, reducing subsidies on both; the
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan provides for renewed investments in irrigation and drainage, and
for better cost recovery from producers for infrastructure, operations and maintenance. A proposed
Science and Technology Loan would assist in rationalizing and making more transparent procedures
for Government allocation of non-agricultural research funds.
3.03.     Lessons from Bank agricultural research projects. Bank experience with agricultural
research projects in the rest of the world is ample. A World Bank Technical Paper' (Number 118)
of Bank-supported agricultural research projects ;a 21 countries (of which four are in Latin America)
noted that most 'free-standing' projects were successful in assisting quality research and building
institutions. 'Free-standing' projects were more successful than operations having research as a
component. Common constraints to successful projects were shortages of trained staff, lack of
operating budget, poor incentives for staff performance, an inability to set and implement priorities,
and weak research-extension linkages.
3.04.     The Technical Paper noted such design difficulties as: (a) lack of carefully chosen
priorities; (b) failure to develop a national agricultural research plan covering the principal institutions
and sources of funds; (c) diversification of sources of operating costs; and (d) unclear definition of
staffing requirements. These difficulties were reviewed in sector work (see Annex I) and in project
preparation, and there is full agreement between the Bank and the Government about how to deal with
them. Priorities have been analyzed and agreed with the Government before appraisal of the
operation (see para. 3.11). Methods for analyzing, implementing, and adjusting priorities during the
course of the project, are designed into the operation (see para. 3.32.a). The research plan to be
supported by the project includes the principal institutions with appropriate incentives for closer
collaboration (see para. 3.33.b). Technical assistance to improve and diversify funding is part of the
operation (see para. 3.33.e). Staffing requirements have been analyzed and appropriate training
plans, for extension as well as for research, developed during project preparation (see para. 3.19 for
research training and para. 3.25 for extension training).
3.05.     The same Technical Paper recommended special attention to several implementation
issues: (a) administrative problems at the outset; (b) weak contacts between research and extension;
(c) adequate funding for collaborative research; (d) adequate budget; and (e) incentives for better staff
performance, notably low salaries. Under the project, a qualified project unit (see para. 3.40 and
Annex V) would be established to set procedures and train staff early in implementation, and would
be maintained with satisfactory staffing and management throughout the operation. Institutional
coordination and selected joint activitits have been planned to ensure close links between research and
extension (see paras. 3.21 and 3.24). The operation would provide funds for collaborative research
between the executing agencies with Mexican and other institutions (see Annex VI and para. 3.33.b).
Under the project, the Government would commit itself to an adequate 1992 budget for agricultural
7 Anthony J. Pritchard, Lending by the World Bank for Agricultural Research: A Review of the Years 1981 through
1987, World Bank Technical Paper Number 118.



- 16 -
research and extension (see para. 2.07). At appraisal, INIFAP presented satisfactory evidence to the
Bank about incentives for more productive research staff (see para. 2.22) and the project would help
support financial incentives to extension staff (see para. 3.25).
3.06.     Lessons from relevant Drojects in Mexico. Previous Bank operations in Mexican
agricultural research and extension were restricted to project components, excepting the Agricultural
Training, Extension and Research Program (PROCATI--Loan 2859-ME), a pilot extension operation.
They did not have a national approach, diu not induce changes in sectoral priorities, and had no link
to policy reforms in such areas as cost-recovery which interact with the public agricultural technology
system. Hence, while such restricted operations had positive effects, they had little impact at the
national level. The operation involves the major institutions in the sector, has links to universities
and other institutions doing basic research (see Annex VI and Working Paper 1), and builds from a
basis of sound policy reforms in some key areas (see paras. 2.12 and 2.13).
3.07.     The Bank has had successful involvement in research and extension components in
projects for rainfed agriculture, rural development, irrigation, and agricultural credit. Major research
components were supported in the Program for Integrated Rural Development for the Humid Tropics
(PRODERITH I) and the National Plan for Support to Rainfed Agriculture (PLANAT).
PRODERITH was successful in establishing research and extension links, which are a key feature of
the operation. PLANAT supported on-farm adaptive research, which is a key feature of the extension
component of the project because more intensive extension has been shown to hasten technology
transfer in rainfed areas. Successes, for example, include better yields of rainfed wheat, adoption of
hybrid maizes, and rapid increases in fertilizer consumption. Farmers' organizations, which have
been important in previous operations in raising the efficiency of extension by providing needed local
support, are also a key element of the extension component of this operation.
3.08.     The PROCATI project has been partially successful. It has succeeded in promoting a
standardized extension methodology, in providing additional resources to priority extension districts,
and in giving much better access to extension services for low-income producers who cannot pay for
private extension services. The operation would build upon the success of PROCATI by extending its
coverage to 75 districts from the actual 25 (see para 3.23). A serious shortcoming in the PROCATI
project has been an inadequate budget, which interfered with project start-up and raised doubts among
field staff about the Government's commitment to the project. The Government agreed at
negotiations to provide adequate resources for the project's extension component (see para. 4.01.j).
B. Project Objectives
3.09.     The general objective of the operation is to assist the Government in reviving agricultural
growth via accelerated technical change. This objective would be achieved by: (a) generating new
agricultural technology through applied and adaptive research, with special emphasis on the
commodities and regions of the country in which private extension is weakest; (b) validating
agricultural technology through adaptive research done in close collaboration with the extension
service; (c) transferring technology to agricultural producers via extension; (d) bettering the capacity
of INIFAP to generate, validate and transfer technologies by improving its capacity to identify and
manage scientific problems, set and modify priorities, and to use research results from outside
sources; and (e) astablishing a stronger funding basis for agricultural research and extension.



- 17 -
C. Proiect Descriptffl
3.10. The project would have three components: technology generation through research,
technology transfer through extension, and development of INIFAP and collaborating research
instituttons. Of the total project cost, US$163.2 million would be for research (see paras. 3.11
through 3.19), US$102.7 million for extension (see paras. 3.20 through 3.28), and US$34.1 million
for the institutional development of INIFAP (see para. 3.29). Included in the extension component is
approximately USS6.5 million for soil conservation activities (see para. 3.27).
1. Technolpgy Generation through Research
3.11.     The chief objective of this component is to contribute to renewed agricultural growth by
public research and extension through investments in infrastructure, equipment, and training for crop,
livestock, forestry and natural resource managen. tnt research. These investments will generate new
cultivars and cropping practices in basic grains and oilseeds (maize, beans, rainfed rice, rainfed
wheat, safflower, and sunflower), and such other crops as vegetables and fruits. New animal
production technologies will be developed for forages, beef cattle, dairy cattle, small ruminants, and
stock management. Forestry research will be done in the areas of integrate4 forest management and
tropical woods. A common objective to crop, livestock, and forestry research is to develop
sustainable technologies that conserve natural resources.
3.12.     P grams of crops, livestock, forestry and natural resources research have been developed
from an analb ;is of barriers to productivity, from inventories of available technology, and from
information about the ability of the private sector to supply research results (see Annex I). Priorities
for the research component are in the southern tropical and other rainfed regions, leaving more of the
irrigated north to the private sector. Target farmers will be small and medium producerp who are less
able to pay for research and extension. Supported research programs will be closely linked to
extension. Of the research component cost of US$163.2 million, allocations to crops, livestock, and
forestry are based on the value of each subsector in prodnction, the availability of private sector
research, and the prospects for success in various lines ot irvestigation. About US$102 million would
be in crops research, US$46 million would be in livestock aid related research, US$10 million in
forestry, and US$5 million in natural resources. Included w d in the research component would be
about US$20.9 million of investments for the CIFAPs of the i3orth region of INIFAP, US$32.1
million for the CIFAPs of the center region, and US$25.4 milli n for the south region CIFAPs.
Approximately US$8.6 will be provided to the CENIDs. The r.;,arch component would include
US$76.2 m;llion in incremental recurrent costs for research, of '4ihich the Bank would finance only
US$7.7 million, or about 10 percent of the total, on a declining basis (see para. 3.36). The recurrent
costs are allocated by region in equal proportion to the investments.
3.13.     The research component would finance rehabilitation and minor new construction of field
stations and laboratories. It would fund acquisition of farm and laboratory equipment, vehicles,
training items, seed production and genetic resources inputs, and staff training, both academic and in-
service. Expanded basic seed production will allow INIFAP to respond to the expected greater
demand from private seed companies (see para. 2.35).
3.14.     The allocation of incrt,.nental resources from the project would shift public research to
poorer and rainfed areas, emphasizing smaller farmers with less access to private research and
extension. Approximately 25 percent of the crops subcomponent will be in the north, emphasizing
maize, beans, temperate fruits, and vegetables. Another 30 percent will be in the center, emphasizing



- 18 -
maize, rainfed wheat, fruits, and vegetables. The remainder will be in the south on such goods as
maize, rainfed rice, coffee, fruite, and vegetables. Costs in all areas-crops, livestock, forestry,
natural resource management, and training-of the research component would be monitored with data
from the MIS (see pWra. 3.32.a) as part of regular project supervision, during the annual review
(see para. 3.47.e) and at the project midterm review (see para. 3.47.f).
3.15.     (o. New production technologies will be developed for basic food grains and oilseeds
(maize, beans, rainfed rice, rainfed wheat, safflower, and sunflower), tropical fruits, temperate fruits,
and vegetables. Research wIll be conducted in plant breeding, product quality, agronomy and crop
management, soil fertility and conservation, and integrated pest management. An important issue
identified in sector work (see Annex I) was INIFAP's excessive reliance on plant breeding to raise
crop productivity, and the project would support greater incremental emphasis on agronomy and crop
management. Scholarships and in-service training will upgrade the academic and technical skills of
scientists working on priority commodities and regions. Support will be provided to common themes
affecting most crops, including basic seed production, soil management, water-use efficiency,
biotechnology, genetic resources, and economics.
3.16.     Livestock. Nearly all livestock research will be in the south and center, as much of the
livestock production technology relevant to the more arid north of Mexico can be imported. The
principal subcomponents are milk production, smallholder beef production, small ruminants, and
forages. The allocation of livestock research would be about 38 percent for dairy research,
32 percent for beef, 20 percent for small ruminants, and 10 percent for other species. In general, the
project would support a reorientation toward research on primary production (see Annex 1). Specific
research themes expected to bolster productivity are forage evaluation for grazing systems, feed
management, plus animal nutrition and reproduction. The project will invest in office and farm
equipment, laboratories, field operations, and staff training. The project's investments will support
microbiology, parasitology, and physiology at the three CENIDs (Mexico City, Morelos, and
Queretaro) doing livestock research.
3.17.     Fores. y. Priority areas are forest management, betterment of tropical species, multiple
species use, forest conservation and restoration, and processing technology. Forest management
systems will work both with wood and other species. Forestry research priorities would be first in
the south, where environmental problems are worst, and second in the center of Mexico, where
population pressure on forest resources is strong. Forestry research in the south will be in the
tropical states of Oaxaca, Veracruz, Guerrero, and Chiapas, mainly on tropical hardwoods and
agroforestry, both for commercial holdings and restoration; some work to characterize little-used
species will also be done. Forestry in the center will work on temperate species; themes are
production and harvesting technology, watershed management using forests, and firewood technology
in densely populated areas. Forestry research in the north, which is the main site of wood production
in the country, will focus on improving extraction and transport techniques, ameliorating the usage of
pines, and bettering use of other species. The project will finance office, farm and laboratory
equipment and staff training.
3.18.     Natural resource management. INIFAP lacks capacity to study natural resource problems
(see Annex 1). In close relation with studies of the environmental effects of agriculture
(see para. 3.32.b), this subcomponent would help better INIFAP's capacity to generate technologies
which are environmentally sound and which conserve natural resources. INIFAP has defined a
program of studies on soil conservation techniques, involving work in irrigated and rainfed areas on
crop and land management to improve soil conservation and to raise water use efficiency. Studies
will be done of water management, subsurface water, and related environmental issues. This will



- 19 -
require financing investments in irrigation equipment, climate survey and remote sensing devices,
communications, computing, and training.
3.19.    Training for research (USS31.9 million). Included in the costs of the crop, livestock,
forestry, and natural resource management research, the opezation would finance academic and in-
service training for INIFAP scientists and technicians in Mexico and abroad. Key areas are crop,
livestock, and forestry technology, natural resources, biotechnology, soil conservation, seed
technology, and economics. The amounts and types of training have been estimated from a review of
INIFAP's staff capacities and needs in coordination with the proposed work plan (Working Paper 2).
Approximately 700 years of academic training would be financed, of which roughly 57 percent would
be in crops, soil conservation research, seed technology, and biotechnology methods; 35 percent
would be in livestock, and 8 percent in forestry. Approximately 2,600 courses and other types of
in-service training for research would be supported by the project (see Annex IV,Table 1). All
training plans have been developed to avoid duplication with training funds from CONACYT and
would only support work on the priority commodities of the project.
2. Technology Transfer through Extension
3.20.    The project would also assist in reviving the public extension service consistent with the
reduced public role in Mexican agriculture. The total cost of the extension component is US$102.7
million, including support to soil conservation activities (US$6.5 million). Specific objectives would
be to transfer known technology, both within Mexico and from abroad, and to facilitate transfer of
new technology, so as to raise productivity in crops, livestock, and forestry. This will be achieved
via support to agricultural extension and to adaptive research done with INIFAP. Other goals are to
diagnose problems in technology transfer, to improve links between research and extension, to
validate promising technologies in farmers' conditions, to promote use of verified technical packages,
and to inmprove training of farmers and extensionists. Emphasis would be on groups which cannot
afford access to private extension, such as small private producers and ejidatarios with operational
farm holdings of less than 5 hectares, and women producers. One extension subcomponent would be
in soil conservation, which is recognized to be a serious problem in Mexican agriculture.
3.21.    The extension methodology is a continuation of the training and visit (T&V) methods used
in the PROCATI project. This component will demonstrate promising technologies via collaborative
work among researchers, extensionists, and producers. It will extend technologies by amplifying
current extension activities in technical assistance, producer and staff training, and producers'
organizations. It will better target public extension by assigning priority to those regions and
producers that have weakest access to private services.
3.22.    At the national level, the objective of the methodology is to create a generalist extensionist
position, supported by specialist staff within a unified public extension service. With the elimination
and/or privatization of most of the parastatals, this objective has been achieved. At the field level, the
methodology seeks to: (a) diagnose farmers' needs; (b) provide regular training to field staff in
diagnosing those needs and in designing technical assistance programs to meet them; (c) establishing a
calendar of regular farm visits by field extension staff; (d) improve linkages among farmer,
extensionist, and researcher; and (e) provide systematic monitoring and extension.
3.23.    Extension of rural development districts. The project extends the PROCATI pilot project,
under implementation since 1987 (see paras. 2.25 and 3.08). It will cover 50 new DDRs, in addition
to the 25 financed by PROCATI, giving 75 in the national total of 193. Eligibility criteria and a



- 20 -
schedule for including the additional districts, which were agreed at negotiations between the Bank
and the Government of Mexico (see Annex VII and para. 4.01.1), emphasize an appropriate balance
between public and private extension, rainfed agriculture, allocation of public extension to poorer
districts, consistency with the reorientation of research, plus the level of privatization in some
districts. Nine of the additional districts to be supported by funds from the operation are within the
Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME) area.
3.24.     Extension activities (USS 94.0 million). Activities are technical assistance to producers,
collaborative on-farm demonstrations with INIFAP, staff and producer training, support to producer
organizations, and soil conservation. These activities build upon the established extension system, are
consistent with the recommendations of Bank sector work, and have been successful components of
previous projects (see para. 3.06). Extension for crops production is expected to serve roughly
1.8 million hectares of basic grains, oilseeds, fruit crops and vegetables (eight percent of the national
cropped area), and to provide technical assistance to an estimated 350,000 producers. Emphasis will
be placed on cropping practices, including integrated pest management, to lower input use. The
livestock subcomponent will finance technical assistance and demonstrations to small and medium
ranchers, in close collaboration with livestock validation farms managed by INIFAP. In forestry, the
project will extend technical assistance to nearly 20,000 producers on about 700,000 hectares.
3.25.     Investment costs of the extension component, excluding those for soil conservation, are
expected to be US$59.7 million. In most of the 50 additional project districts, the operation will assist
the construction and rehabilitation of small field offices in the Support Centers for Rural Development
(CADERs), purchase of vehicles, computers, and communications equipment, and on-farm trial
equipment. Specific costs would be as follows.
a. Office construction and rehabilitation (US$ 5.6 million). Financing would be provided for
construction of new offices where needed in the 50 additional districts to be added to the
project, and for rehabilitation of offices in other districts where new construction would
not be warranted.
b.  Vehicles (US$ 15.6 million). Financing would be provided for vehicles for use by
extension field staff to allow better access to farms for such activities as providing
technical assistance to producers, assisting with producers organizations, and managing
on-farm trials.
c.  Computing and communications equipment (USS 1.3 million). Computing and
communications equipment would be financed to enable extension staff to produce training
materials for farmers and to analyze results from on-farm demonstrations.
d.  Farm and office equipment (USS 4.8 million). Farm equipment would be used to assist
with on-farm trials, veterinary diagnostic activities, and other extension activities.
Financing for office equipment would be required to furnish newly constructed or
rehabilitated field offices.
e.  On-farm demonstrations (US$ 12.4 million). The project would support approximately
3,000 on-farm demonstrations in eligible districts, done in close collaboration with
INIFAP staff working in those districts.
f.  Staff and producer training (US$ 20.0 million). Training will be provided to extension
staff to improve their technical, management, and communication skills. About 2,340



- 21 -
courses would be provided to approximately extension staff; another set of about 5,500
courses would be provided to agricultural producers.
3.26.     Incremental recurrent costs of US$34.3 million, of which the Bank will finance US$5.0
million on a declining basis (see para. 3.36), would be provided under the project for additional
operations and salaries, including bonuses to more productive staff. Incremental recurrent cost
financing will be provided only for the 50 new eligible rural development districts, and not for the 25
continuing PROCATI districts.
3.27.    Soil conservation (USS6.5 million). Though soil erosion is a serious problem in Mexican
agriculture, the extension system lacks financial and specialized staff resources to trea& it. Pioject
assistance in resolving the soil erosion problem would have two parts.
a.  One part of the project is a pilot program in four selected DDRs with severe erosion. The
pilot program would promote the diffusion of known soil conservation techniques
(see Annex VIII and Working Paper 4), support technical assistance and training to
farmers, training to field staff given by specialists from the SARH, field demonstration
plots, and limited financial incentives to producers to adopt promising techniques. At full
development of 12 districts, total costs of this part of the subcomponent would be US$3.8
for investmnents (vehicles, farm equipment, district staff training, farmer training, technical
assistance, and field demonstrations) and US$2.1 million for recurrent costs. At
nlhgoiations, the Government agreed to incorporate additional districts to the priority soil
conservation work by no later than June 30, 1993 (see para. 4.01.n), depending on
satisfactory results from the four pilot districts.
b.  A second part of this subcomponent would support the DCSA, which now gives technical
assistance for soil conservation in SARH. In this part, emphasis would be on off-farm
effects of soil erosion and on watershed management approaches to soil conservation,
because the research and extension components emphasize the on-farm effects and control
of erosion. Institutional and technical linkages within SARH to other Bank-supported
projects, including the irrigation and drainage sector project and to the PRODERITH
tropical development project, would be maintained. Investments in this part would be
about US$0.24 million for technical assistance, office equipment and computers, and staff
training; recurrent costs would be about US$0.36 million for incremental salaries for
DCSA staff.
3.28.    Monitoring and evaluation (USS 2.2 million). Monitoring of the extension component, and
the soil conservation subcomponent, would differ from that of the research component. Monitoring
and evaluation of the PROCATI project are now done by a computerized system used at the
PROCATI offices, and through technical assistance provided by the Colegio de Post-Graduados and
the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA). The project would support the
further development and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation systems developed during
the PROCATI project. The computerized system would be maintained and updated to be compatible
with the MIS for research; provision for the work to make it compatible with the research MIS is the
terms of reference for the latter. Progress in implementing the extension component of the project
would be reviewed in the annual and midterm reviews. Signed contracts acceptable to the Bank with
qualified institutions for monitoring and evaluation would be a condition of effectiveness
(see para. 4.02.b.)  a



- 22 -
3. Institutional Development for Agricultural Research
3.29.     The third component would improve the institutional capacity of INIFAP by strengthening
its planning and budgeting for research, management of human resources, interinstitutional
cooperation, and support programs to research and extension. The component would also support
complementary private sector research and provide a context for increased dialogue and collaboration
between scientists in the public and private agricultural research systems. With improvements
introduced under this component, INIFAP would enhance its ability to mobilize more resources, to
shift to new priorities, to widen their intellectual base via closer contacts to nonfederal research, to
monitor program implementation, to make decisions using information about costs and returns from
individual programs, and to provide better incentives to productive staff. The project will further
assist in shifting priorities to the rainfed and tropical areas, and with reducing public support for
activities in which prospects for cost recovery from the private sector are better.
3.30.     The cost of the component is estimated at US$34.1 million in three priority areas: library
and scientific information (US$9.2 million), research management (US$4.4 million), and other
programs (US$20.5 million). INIFAP, in coordination with CONACYT and other branches of the
public research system, provides performance-based incentives to improve staff remuneration
(see para. 2.22), so additional action under the project is unnecessary to ameliorate staff incentives.
3.31.     Libraries and scientific informnation (USS9.2 million). This subcomponent will assist in
improving the libraries and scientific information services of INIFAP. A first part would concentrate
on updating collections which have !apsed in recent years for lack of funds. It would provide books,
journal subscriptions, and other media, plus provide computing and communications facilities to
receive, catalog, index, and transmit such information to scientists working in the field. A second part
would support a consultancy to design an integrated library system (ILS) for INIFAP (see Annex IX
and Working Paper 5). The final system would have updated and expanded collections of scientific
information, plus augmented capacity to manage those collections, to train personnel, and to transmit
information to scientists and extensionists. At negotiatigns, the Government agreed to (a) design an
ILS for INIFAP no later than August 31, 1992; and (b) make the ILS operational no later than
January 1, 1993 (see para. 4.01.c).
3.32.     Research management (USS4.4 millionl. Goals are to assist in implementation of
improved planning and budgeting procedures and in managing research priorities. In planning and
budgeting, technical assistance will be provided to develop a management information system
(see Annex IX) to compile agroclimatic and economic data in a unified database with research activity
data, enabling INIFAP to achieve better congruence of costs with priorities and to measure progress.
Academic and in-service training (US$1.6 million) will fortify the capacities of research directors to
guide INIFAP, to plan a consistent research agenda, to budget for that agenda, and to monitor its
implementation. Other subcomponents would be as follows.
a.  Management information system (USSO.6 million). INIFAP needs to update its priorities
continuously in order to account for changes in its external environment-such as
commodity prices and the availability of private research-to meet the Government's
objectives of an efficiently targeted research system. The operation would assist in the
design and implementation of an MIS (see Annex IX). The costs of this subcomponent
would be technical assistance to design the MIS and to assist in itsgimplementation and
subsequent refinement. Data entered into the MIS would include information on research
activities, such as site, commodity, agroclimate, cost, and scientific inputs; analyses
generated by the MIS would include cost totals for work on commodities, in different



- 23 -
regions, and using different techniques. Once the MIS is operational, it would be used for
monitoring and evaluating all research and institutional development component activities,
and in preparing reports, annual work plans, annual reports, budget submissions, and
preparation for the annual and midterm reviews. The MIS would, jointly with results from
a study of the impact of research and extension on agricultural productivity
(see para. 3.32.c), permit cost-benefit analysis of research and extension investments. AA
negQliations, the Government agreed to establish a research nIS in INIFAP no later than
January 1, 1993 (see para. 4.01.d).
b. Study of the environmental effect of agriculture (USS0.4 million). Because INIFAP now
lacks experience in studying environmental issues, the operation would fund a study of the
environmental costs of agriculture, and to define actions to reduce such costs. a
negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) complete and submit by August 31, 1992
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank for studies of the environmental costs of
agricultural development based upon the outline of those studies accepted at negotiations;
and (b) complete an initial phase of the study (definition of study topics, selection of field
sites, and drawing of initial samples) before June 30, 1994 so as to make its results
available for the project midterm review (see para. 4.0l.e). During the midterm review,
agreement would be reached on an action plan for implementing the recommendations of
the study.
c. Study of the productivity impact of research and extension on agricultural productivity
(US$0.9 million). While historical studies indicate high economic rates of return to
agricultural research in Mexico (Annex 1), and recent work on wheat and maize has
confirmed those high economic rates of return, there is a need to do such studies
regularly, to do them in different farming environments, and to relate them explicitly to
the costs of agricultural research and extension. Such studies of the productivity effects of
agricultural research would allow changes in research priorities. The operation would fund
long-term studies of the productivity effects of research and extension at different sites in
Mexico in a manner compatible with information provided by the MIS. At negotiations,
the Government agreed to (a) submit terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for this
study by August 31, 1992 based upon the outline of the studies accepted at negotiations;
and (b) agree to complete the first phase (presentation of one year's results from
monitoring farm households to estimate the impact of research and extension) of the study
no later than June 30, 1994 (see para. 4.01.fl.
d.  Project management (USSO.9 million). This would include costs of the project unit,
preparation of a possible follow-up project, writing the project completion report, and
analytical and operational support to the midterm review.
3.33.    Other research su.Dort programs (USS20.5 million). This subcomponent provides
resources to augment INIFAP's capacity to mobilize nonfederal funding, to collaborate with external
research institutions, to better support its scientific networks, to train staff, and to upgrade computing
and communications equipment and skills. Specific subcomponents would be as follows.
a.  Compufing and communications (US$9. 1). All computing and communications equipment
for INIFAP is packaged in this subcomponent. Computing funds include about 690
microcomputer sets (hardware, printers, and software) for scientists, laptop computers,
printer-sharing devices, fax machines, modems, phone lines, and maintenance costs.
Included in these costs are approximately US$0.97 million for computer software.



- 24 -
b. Collaborative research (US$6.5 million2. Support for collaborative research (see
Annex VI) will allow other branches of the national agricultural research system,
particularly universities, where those branches have a comparative advantage. This will
be done by funding short-term consultancies to be executed by other national institutions
outside INIFAP, supporting long-term collaborative research by the universities under the
supervision of INIFAP, and endowing competitive research grants to be awarded to
Mexican universities and private organizations. At negotiations (see para. 4.01.q), the
Government agreed to: (a) constitute a Collaborative Research Committee acceptable to
the Bank to evaluate research proposals and to approve research grants; and (b) apply, as
the Committee's governing procedures, the rules of operation of the Program of Support
for Science in Mexico (PACIME), which are acceptable to the Bank, for evaluation and
funding approval of research proposals made to the Collaborative Research Committee
(Annex VI).
c.  Network support (USS3.5 million). Scientific networks (see para. 2.06) provide
specialized disciplinary support to individual scientists in, for example, maize pathology,
or economics. The operation would support planning and scientific meetings and short-
term technical assistance to the networks, on subjects to be selected by the network
coordinators, to allow them to offer such support to their members.
d. Collaboration with the extension service (US$1.1 million). Vehicles and training would be
provided to allow research staff to collaborate in on-farm demonstrations with the
extension service.
e. Mobilization of nonfederal funding (US$0.3 rnillion). An important objective of this
component is to mobilize more resear.ch funds from state governments, local governments,
private companies, and producers. To assist in achieving this objective, technical
assistance will be provided to INIFAP (see Annex X). This consultancy would pay
particular attention to improving staff incentives from the additional resources identified.
The work will be done by a full-time consultant for 36 months at the beginning of
implementation, who will work on legal, financial, and administrative aspects of resource
mobilization. Targets for the shares of federal funding by the north, central, and south
regions are described in Table 1 of Annex IV.
D. Project Costs and Financing
1. Cos=
3.34.     Total project costs are estimated at US$300.0 million, of which US$139.3 million will be
in foreign exchange (see Table 1 and Annex II). Project costs include expenditures for construction
and rehabilitation of facilities; purchase of agricultural laboratory equipment; provision of furniture,
computer items, communication equipment, and vehicles; subscriptions to journals, abstracts, and
electronic formats for agricultural libraries; consultant services, fellowship training, short courses,
and seminars for researchers and extensionists, as well as training to farmers. Incremental recurrent
costs are included for a small portion of new hire personnel, salaries for researchers, and other
maintenance and operational expenses. Unit cost estimates were derived from the extension project
PROCATI, from supplier surveys, and from current rates for consultancies and other services in
Mexico. Quantities of goods and services to be financed are based on inventories conducted by the
executing agencies during project preparation.



- 25 -
3.35.     Baseline costs were estimated at US$255.6 million. Physical contingencies are US$9.5
million or 3.2 percent of total project cost; physical contingencies are 10 percent for civil works and
equipment, 5 percent for vehicles and tractors, and zero for technical assistance, training and studies,
and recurrent costs.  Price contingencies between negotiations and project completion are estimated
at US$34.9 million equivalent, or 13.2 percent of project baseline cost plus physical contingencies.
Annual price increases have been applied to local and foreign costs in all categories in US dollar
terms at a rate of 3.4 percent. Foreign and local price contingencies have been expressed in
US dollar equivalencies, assuming purchasing power parity during the seven-year project life.
Physical and price contingencies are 17.4 percent of the baseline cost.



- 26-
Table 1.
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Eoreign
LQcalE' xgangS                         Total
A. Research
Laboratories                            1.0                  6.6               7.6
Regional sites                         14.6                 53.1              67.7
Subtotal                              15.6                 59.7             75.3
B. Extension                            26.7                 29.9             56.6
C. Institutional Development of INIFAP
Libraries and
scientific information                 4.6                  2.1               6.7
Research management                     2.8                  1.2               4.0
Other support programs                  4.0                 14.0              18.0
Subtotal                              11.4                 17.3             28.7
D. Incremental recurrent costs
Research                               51.1                 10.7              61.8
Extension                              29.8                  2.6              32.4
Institutional development of INIFAP     0.7                  0.1               0.8
Subtotal                                81.6                 13.4             95.0
Total baseline costs                   135.3                120.3            255.6
Physical contingencies                  4.9                  4.6               9.5
Price contingencies                     20.5                 14.4             34.9
Total project costs                    160.7                139.3            300.0
Financing Pi                          Law                  Foreign            Total
(US$ million)
Federal Government                     113.8                 36.2            150.0
IBRD2'                                 46.9                 103.1             150.0
Total                                  160.7                139.3            300.0
1/ Including duties and taxes of US$ 32.1 million.
2/ Excluding duties and taxes of US$ 32.1 million.



- 27 -
2. Financing
3.36.       As indicated in Table 2, the World Bank loan of US$150 million would finance
50 percent of total project costs, 75 percent of civil works, laboratory equipment, farm equipment,
office and laboratory equipment, and vehicles, and 70 percent of technical assistance, training, and
studies. The Bank would finance incremental recurrent costs (totalling US$13.0 million) in priority
areas on a declining basis (100 percent in year I of the project, 75 percent in year 2, 50 percent in
year 3, 25 percent in year 4, and zero thereafter); the average of incremental recurrent costs to be
financed by the Bank would be 11.4 percent of the total incremental recurrent costs over the project
life. The loan would be to NAFIN which would sign an agreement with the Government for the
transfer of the loan proceeds to the executing agencies as a condition of loan effectiveness (see para.
4.02.a). Financing for project costs of US$150 million not covered by the loan would be provided by
the Government of Mexico.
3.37.       Support to agricultural technology development is of key importance in the overall
country program and assistance strategy for Mexico, both because it aims to help revitalize the
agriculture sector as a source of growth, and because it is a mainstay of the poverty alleviation
element of the program. Foreign exchange accounts for only 46 percent of the costs of this project.
A meaningful Bank contribution to the financing of this effort requires financing of some-roughly
29 percent-of its local costs, bringing Bank participation in aggregate up to 50 percent of total project
costs. Considering the priority attached to this operation, and the need to ensure a meaningful basis
for dialogue and agreement on the Government's agricultural technology strategy and the budgetary
resources being allocated to agricultural research, the proposed level of aggregate financing --
including local cost financing - is viewed as appropriate.
3.38.       To permit INIFAP and the DCSA to begin priority activities, retroactive financing of
up to US$10.0 million, or approximately 7 percent of the loan amount, has been included. Eligible
costs, which were defined at appraisal, would cover the cost of computing, communications, and farm
equipment, and consultant services necessary for timely project start-up. Retroactive financing would
be limited to expenditures incurred after the start of the appraisal mission, June 17, 1991. Retroactive
fmancing would not be available for extension, as the PROCATI operation is still under
implementation.



- 28 -
Table 2.
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Total
Bank                Gvernment
A. Resarch
Laboratories                       8.6                6.6                     2.0
Regional sites                    78.4               57.3                    21.1
Subtotal                         87.0               63.9                    23.1
B. Extensio                       65.8               46.6                    19.2
C. Insituigal eelent
of INIFAP
Libraries and information        8.3                6.6                     1.7
Research management              4.4                3.6                     0.8
Other support services          20.5               16.3                     4.2
Subtotal                     33.2                26.5                    6.7
D. Incremental recurrent costs
Research                          76.2                7.7                    68.5
Extension                         36.9                5.0                    31.9
Institutional development
of INIFAP                        0.9                0.3                     0.6
Subtotal                      114.0               13.0                   101.0
Total project costs              300.0              150.0                   150.0
E. Proect Organization and Management
1. proiect Agencies
3.39.        INIFAP would be the executing agency for the research and institutional development
components. The DGESAF would be the executing agency for the extension component.
Technology validation activities would be done collaboratively among INIFAP, the DGESAF, and the
state delegations of the SARH, which manage field extension staff. The DCSA would participate in
the soil conservation activities of the extension component. Mexican universities and other qualified
research institutions, including private organizations, are expected to be involved through
collaborative research with INIFAP (see Annex VI) and CONACYT would be a member of the
Collaborative Research Committee (see para. 3.33.b).



-29 -
2. PEtroL Unit
3.40.        Because the executing agencies have well-established structures and procedures for
scientific, technical, and administrative activities, it is not necessary to create a new project
management body. The government has agreed to establish a small project unit (PU) within INIPAP,
however, to manage some aspects (see Annex V) of the operation. The PU, which would report
jointly to the Directors of INIBAP and the DGESAF in their respective components, will ensure
coordination among the implementing agencies and manage procurement and audit, contract
consultants, and report to the Bank. The PU would also assist in preparing bidding documents,
submitting documents to the Bank for prior review, in analyzing bids, and in contracting. The PU
would have no scientific duties and its administrative duties would not duplicate those of INIFAP or
of the DGESAF. The PU will have a manager, a procurement agent and necessary support staff.
The first manager of the PU was appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Al
negatiations, the Government agreed to: (a) maintain in each Executing Agency an organizational
structure, functions, and adequate staff, all satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation and
supervision of the project; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any proposed change in the organizational
structure or functions of any of the Executing Agencies; and (c) maintain the Project Unit with
appropriate functions, structure and staff, satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.01.a).
3. Procurement
3.41.        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3. Standard bidding documents
will be used for the procurement of civil works and goods (Cuernavaca documents). Civil works
include modest field laboratories and ancillary facilities in 34 CIFAPs and 5 CENIDs, plus
construction and rehabilitation of approximately 175 district extension offices of about 150 m2 per
unit. Those works that would not exceed an aggregate amount of US$11.9 million would be procured
under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank; contracts expected to cost more than US$ 5.0 million
would be procured under ICB. Prior review by the Bank would be required for civil works contracts
larger than US$1.5 million and for the first three LCB contracts regardless of their value.
3.42.        Goods to be procured under ICB include computers and associated materials,
laboratory equipment, about one-half of the equipment for training and information, and some
specialized agricultural items. Contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
US$25,000 would be procured through local or international shopping requiring at least three
quotations. Contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less
than US$250,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank up to an aggregate limit of US$15.5 million equivalent. The Bank's prior review would be
required for the first three goods contracts to be procured under LCB. Vehicles eligible for Bank
financing under the loan would be procured through ICB.
3.43.        Consultants would be hired following procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." The Bank
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" would govern all consultancies financed by the collaborative
research facility of the institutional development component (see para. 3.33.b and Annex VI).



- 30 -
Table 3. Procuremgnt Arrangements
(US$million)
Category                       ICB             LCB            OTHER         TOTAL
Civil works                                          11.9                          11.9
(8.4)                         (8.4)
Farm, computing, and                25.1             19.2            6.2w'        50.5
communications equipment          (20.1)          (15.5)           (4.7)        (40.3)
Vehicles                            39.6                                          39.6
(18.1)                                        (18.1)
Laboratory equipment                12.0                                           12.0
(9.6)                                         (9.6)
Technical Assistance                                                13.0           13.0
(10.4)        (10.4)
Training and studies                                                59.0           59.0
(50.2)        (50.2)
Recurrent Costs                                                    114.0          114.0
(13.0)        (13.0)
Total                               76.7             31.1          192.2         300.0
(47.8)          (23.9)         (78.3)        (150.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts, including contingencies, expected to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Goods to be procured through price quotat: - -im at least three contractors or suppliers.
4. Disbursement
3.44. Disbursement would occur over the seven-year project life and is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1998 (see Annex II), in accordance with the disbursement profile for agricultural
projects in Mexico. The project completion date would be December 31, 1998. The loan closing
date would be June 30, 1999. The borrower, NAFIN, would establish a Special Account (SA) in
Banco de Mexico, with an initial deposit of US$7 million, equal to about four months' estimated
disbursements, under established procedures between the Bank and the Government of Mexico.
Disbursements against goods contracts below the US$250,000 limit for prior review would be made
on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements against civil works contracts below US$500,000 would be



- 31 -
made on the basis of SOEs. Disbursements against civil works contracts above US$500,000, but
below US$1,500,000 would be made on the basis of post review. Disbursements against contracts for
goods and civil works above the respective prior review limits would be made against full
documentation submitted to the Bank.
5. Aud&
3.45.        INIFAP and the DGESAF will maintain separate central project accounts. The
CIFAPs, CENIDs, and DDRs would also maintain separate project accounts for project expenditures
incurred by them. All accounts would adequately reflect expenditures made in respect of the project,
in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Bank. Financial documents would be
reviewed by SARH and NAFIN before submission to the Bank. A certified copy of the project audit,
to be done by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the March 1982
Bank "Guidelines for Fina icial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank",
would be submitted to the Bank not more than six months after the completion of each project year.
The audit report will include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
statements of expenditures. Statements of expenditure would be made available to Bank supervision
missions. At negotiatigns, the Government agreed to have the project accounts audited using
procedures acceptable to the Bank in line with the provisions of the November 1991 audit agreement
with the General Secretariat of Comptrollers of the Federation (SECOGEF) (see para. 4.01.p).
6. Sunervision by the Bank
3.46.        The cost estimates in Annex II and the schedule shown in Annex IV would be the
basis of project implementation. Supervision by the Bank should be facilitated by the fact that the
executing agencies are well-established and have effective procedures for project implementation. The
initial supervision, soon after effectiveness, would focus on adequacy of the design of the MIS and
integrated library systems (see rara. 3.31 and para. 3.32.a), and terms of reference for the
environmental (see para.3.32.b) and impact studies (see para. 3.32.c and para. 4.01.). The
executing agencies, in collaboration with the PU, will produce a single joint annual report within two
months of the end of the previous calendar year. There would be two annual Bank supervision
missions, one soon after receiving the annual report to review progress in the previous year. The
second supervision, to take place no later than September 30 of each year when the following year's
budget is in preparation, would be combined with the annual review (see para. 3.47.e). Data on
implementation from the MIS will be the basis of supervision, complemented by other information as
required. A midterm review would take place during the third year of project implementation (see
para. 3.47.).
3.47.        Performance monitoring. Because results from research and extension become
available slowly, it is not possible to supervise the project initially with indicators to measure impact.
Such impact indicators would be, for example, crop or livestock product yields, or rates of adoption
of technologies. Supervision, therefore, first concentrates on project implementation indicators. Later,
as data become available about project costs and returns, real measures of the impact of research and
extension on agricultural productivity will be derived from work supported by the operation.
a.    Implementation indicators. At negotiations, the Government agreed on a set of
indicators (see Annex IV, 'Table 1) to monitor progress with project implementation
(see para. 4.01.h). In all project components, implementation indicators include
construction of civil works, acquisition of goods, numbers of staff trained, and



- 32 -
allocation of expenditures in line with the operation's priorities. In research, they will
include numbers of experiments on priority commodities and regions, and numbers of
staff receiving academic and in-service training. Such information will be available
from the MIS and from other sources available to Bank supervision missions, such as
field visits to experiment stations and on-farm research sites. In extension, they will
include the numbers of rural development districts added to the project
(seeb Annex VII), numbers of farmer groups assisted, numbers of farmers trained,
numbers of field demonstrations, and in the four pilot soil conservation districts
(see Annex VIII and Working Paper 4), numbers of hectares treated with soil
conservation techniques. Information about extension will be available from the data
now regularly collected by the DGESAF and the DCSA, as well as from supervision
missions.
b.    Impact indicators. At neotiationa, the Government agreed on a set of indicators
(see Annex IV, Table 2) to determine the impact of agricultural research and
extension progress (see para. 4.01.h). Those indicators would be measured in a long-
term study of the impact of research and extension on agricultural productivity, to be
supported by the project (see para. 3.32.c). The combined results from the MIS and
the impact study would produce data on costs on research and extension at the
experimental and administrative levels (from the MIS), and on benefits of those
activities in the field (from the impact study).
C.    The nnual rot. At negotiations, the Government agreed to produce an acceptable
annual report covering project activities in all components (see para. 4.01.g). The PU
would manage the production of the annual report in collaboration with the executing
agencies.
d.    The annual budget and work plan. At negotiations, the Government agreed to have the
executing agencies present an budget and annual work plan no later than June 15 of
each year describing the work to be done in the following project year
(see paa. 4.01.g). The budget and work plan for the first year of the project were
presented to the appraisal mission and were accepted.
e.    The annual review. The second annual project supervision would also be the annual
review. At neiation, the Government agreed to hold an annual project review no
later than September 30 of each year. That review would analyze the proposed budget
and work plan for the subsequent year, discuss those plans with respect to the
project's implementation indicators in Table 1 of Annex IV and agree on necessary
changes in implementation (see para. 4.01.g).
f.    Project midterm review. At ngoiations, the Government agreed to terms of
reference for a midterm review to be held no later than September 30, 1994
(see para. 4.01.i). The midterm review would constitute the annual review for 1994.
The midterm review would examine progress with project implementation i.n all
components, based on the implementation indicators in Table 1 of Annex IV, and
would analyze scientific and technical quality, and project impact based on the impact
indicators in Table 2 of Annex IV. The midterm review would analyze the research
component using data from the MIS. It would analyze the extension component and
'See M. Slater, 'Soil Conservation', projet Worting Paper 4.



- 33 -
soil conservation activities with data provided by the DGESAF and the DCSA. Data
will include all information about project costs and activities, and observed or
expected benefits from those activities. All data would be completed for the first
30 months of project implementation. Based on its analysis, the review would
recommend changes in project implementation and a schedule to implement its
recommendations. If, in the judgment of the review, a follow-up project appears
justifiable, then the review would also agree on terms of reference for preparauon of
the second operation. This would be a joint review, with the participation of the Bank
and a panel of distinguished international agricultural scientists. Reasonable costs for
the review would be eligible for reimbursement from the project's institutional
development component (see para. 3.32.d).
F. _roue;t Benefits
3.48.        High economic rates of return to agricultural research and extension are well
documented in Mexico and elsewhere. Typical constituents of those returns are innovations boosting
crop, livestock, and forest productivity, lowering input use, upgrading cultural practices, and ensuring
more sustainable natural resource use. All are expected to be achieved in this operation. Other
benefits are expanded capacities to generate research, to conmnunicate results to producers, to broaden
the population of benefiting producers, and to train more scientific and technical staff. Specific
benefits from the project include:
a.    More productive agricultural technology would be generated for crop, livestock, and
forestry production with greater product yields per unit of input in some cases and
lower input costs per unit of product in others. Priority is given to the staples (maize,
beans, rice, and wheat), oilseeds, dairy, beef, small ruminant production, and
forestry. Results in those commodities are expected to profit the majority of
producers in Mexico.
b.    Agricultural technology would be transferred to producers more quickly because
existing methods, as well as technologies generated during implementation, will be
promoted via more intensive extension and closer collaboration with research. Better
targeting of producers and agroclimates will also accelerate transfer and reduce the
costs of inappropriate techniques in some regions. Priority will be given to the same
crops as for the research component and thus will benefit a large target population of
producers.
c.    Superior methods of natural resource management would be devised, particularly in
soil conservation, to reduce on-farm costs of soil erosion. More efficient accounting
for &nvironinental costs of agricultural development will allow generation and transfer
of new methods to lower such costs. This will benefit much of the Mexican tropics
and densely cultivated highlands where environmental costs of agriculture are high.
d.    Better targeting of research and extension would improve access of poor regions and
disadvantaged producers to new technology, thus augmenting the efficiency of public
technology investment. Institutional development of INIFAP will further permit it to
benefit from collaboration with Mexican universities and other agencies
(see Annex I). Better planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation procedures,



- 34 -
will give a more efficient mix of personnel and nonpersonnel costs, thus raising the
efficiency of scientific time.
G. Environmental Issues
3.49.        Project activities will have no direct environmental impact. There are expected to be
indirect environmental benefits from research and extension supported by the project. Such
enviromnental benefits would result from the generation of agricultural techniques with lower
environmental costs, training of scientists, extension %3rkers, SARH technical staff, and producers in
such techniques, and greater capacity of public institutions to identify environmental costs and to
devise solutions. Environmental benefits are expected for:
a.    Crops. Research supported by the project will improve management of soils, genetic
resources, agrochemicals, and pests. Soils research and extension will emphasize
extending known conservation methods and on developing methods where economic
solutions do not exist. Genetic resources research-collecting, cataloguing, and
multiplying native materials for different agroclimates--would expand the genetic base
of materials used in plant breeding programs. Research and extension on integrated
pest management and in reducing agrochemicals, which are necessarily
complementary, would build from the strong base of knowledge in those areas in
Mexico. Significant benefits are expected from generation and transfer of methods to
reduce soil erosion caused by crop and livestock production.
b.    Livestock. Animal research will produce environmental benefits through greater
efficiency of feed production and use. Because much of the expansion of tropical
animal production has been through more extensive land use, more efficient feed
production and use would be expected to lessen pressure on tropical lands. Other
possible environmental effects from research on livestock production include better
disease diagnosis and prevention, and reduced chemical use.
c.    Foresty. Forestry research and extension would principally seek to improve the
management of existing forests to achieve more sustainable yields. Secondary
objectives would be to promote creation of new forests, using both rapid growth
species and new, underexploited, species. Forestry research in the north will also
work on bettering the sustainable use of nontraditional species which are threatened by
the expansion of cropping and of commercial wood forestry.
3.50.        During negotiations, the Government agreed that any work involving transgenic
organisms to be supported by the project would be conducted under biosafety standards acceptable to
the Bank (see para. 4.01.k); and that acceptable national safety standards would be applied for all use
of pesticides (see para. 4.01.m).9
H. Proiect Risks
3.51.        General risks to this type of project, in Bank experience, are lack of Government
commitment, adequacy and sustainability of funding, inability to set priorities, poor management, and
weak research-extension links. The project addressed the commitment risk by eliciting a statement of
9 Biosafety refers to the possible effects of research with transgenic organisms.



- 35 -
the Governmrient's agricultural technology strategy (see para. 2.01) in which it provides assurances of
the priority .t gives to adequate public agricultural research and extension. The operation has dealt
with the budget risk by seeking agreement on adequate budget allocations during project
implementation, on the Government's submitted budgets to the Mexican Congress for research,
extension, and soil conservation activities and on the budgets approved for those purposes by the
Mexican Congress (see para. 2.07). It has addressed the priorities risk by agreeing upon regions,
target producers, commodities, and research methods to be supported by the operation
(see paras. 3.11 through 3.19). The project will further support INIFAP management in developing
a management information system appropriate to a complex, modern, research enterprise
(see para. 3.32.a). Operational risks will be reduced by creating a PU to facilitate Bank procedures
for procurement, disbursement, audit, and reporting (see para. 3.40).
3.52.        Other risks to the operation are:
a.    Failure to extend relevant technologies to producers. Sector work on agricultural
technology (see Annex I) and on soil conservation (Working Paper 4) has identified
methods to be supported by the operation. Project preparation identified key
constraints to productivity and recommended technologies to eliminate them. The
research component is designed to relieve excessive dependence on plant breeding as a
source of higher crop yields. The soil conservation extension component is based on
an analysis of promising technologies in districts in which soil erosion is severe.
Emphasis in livestock research and extension is on better primary production as a
source of growth, which is now most relevant because further land expansion is
limited (see parms. 2.15 through 2.18).
b.    Inadequate links between research and extension. The research and extension
components of the project are tied closely, especially in on-farm technology
validation. Care has been taken to learn from the experience of PROCATI and
previous operations in Mexico during project preparation, in maintaining close links
between research and extension. While the executing agencies are administratively
separate, strong links now exist between them and the PU will serve as a formal
coordinating mechanism (see para. 3.40).
c.    Inability to reform extension. Target groups, extension methodologies, staff training
programs, and work programs have been defined using experience from PROCATI
and from previous sector work on extension priorities on small- and medium-scale
producers in poorer, rainfed, production areas. Goals have been estimated based on
experience with the PROCATI project for maintaining an appropriate balance between
public and private extension (see para. 3.23).



- 36 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached
4.01.        The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
a.    Proiect management (see para. 3.39 and gara. 3.40). The Government would: (a)
(a) maintain in each Executing Agency an organizational structure, functions, and
adequate staff, all satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation and supervision of
the project; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any proposed change in the
organizational structure or functions of any of the Executing Agencies; and
(c) maintain the Project Unit with appropriate functions, structure and staff,
satisfactory to the Bank.
b.    Support staff in INIFAP (see para. 2.08). The Government agreed to train and
allocate key personnel for scientific support and scientific information in INIFAP.
C.    Inegrated Library System for INIFAP (see para. 3.31). The Government would: (a)
design an integrated library system for INIFAP no later than August 31, 1992; and (b)
establish and make operational the system no later than January 1, 1993.
d.    Management Information System in INIFAP (see para. 3.32.a). The Government
agreed to establish a research MIS in INIFAP no later than January 1, 1993.
e.    Study of the environmental effects of agriculture (para. 3.32.b). The Govermnent
would: (a) submit terms of reference acceptable to the Bank for this study by
August 31, 1992 based upon an outline of the study accepted at negotiations; and
(b) agree to complete an initial phase of the study no later than June 30, 1994.
f.    Study of the impact of research and extension on agricultural productivity
se parM 3.32.,c), The Government would: (a) submit terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank for this study by August 31, 1992 based upon an outline of the study
accepted at negotiations; and (b) agree to complete the first phase of the study no later
than June 30, 1994.
g.    Annual report. work plan and review. The Government agreed to: (a) furnish to the
Bank a satisfactory annual report covering all project activities no later than March 1
of each year (see para. 3.47.c); (b) provide to the Bank an acceptable annual work
plan (see para. 3.47.d) no later than June 15 of each year; and (c) hold an annual
project review (see para. 3.47.e) no later than September 30 of each year to assess
project implementation, based on the implementation indicators in Table I of
Annex IV and to review and approve the annual work plan and budget for the
following year.
h.    Project implementation and impact indicators (see para.3.47.a and para.3.47.b). The
Government agreed on: (a) a set of implementation indicators to assess progress in
project implementation indicators (Table 1 of Annex IV); and (c) a set of project



- 37 -
impact indicators (Table 2 of Annex IV), when such indicators become available from
the productivity study (see para. 3.32.c).
i.    Midterm review (see para. 3.47f). The Government agreed to: (a) hold a midterm
review no later than September 30, 1994 to assess project implementation and impact,
based on the indicators in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex IV; and (b) make necessary
changes in project implementation as recommended by the midterm review.
j.    Budget for research. extension. and soil conservation (see para 2.07). The
Government agreed to: (a) submit to its Congress annual fiscal budgets which provide
adequate resources for the research, extension, and soil conservation activities in the
agreed annual work plan; and (b) furnish to the Bank by March 15 of each year
satisfactory evidence of the approved budget.
k.    Possible research with trans enic organisms (see para. 3.50). The Government agreed
to conduct any proposed research under the project involving high-risk transgenic
organisms under safety standards acceptable to the Bank.
1.    Eligible extension districts (see pira. 3.23). The Government agreed to a final list and
schedule of eligible rural development districts for the project extension component.
m.    Pesticide safety (ee para.3.50). The Government agreed to apply national standards
and procedures for the utilization of pesticides in connection with research and
extension activities that are acceptable to the Bank.
n.    Pilot soil conservation districts (see para. 3.27.a). The Govermnent agreed to select
eight additional districts acceptable to the Bank no later than June 30, 1993 for
extending the pilot soil conservation program.
O.    Monitoring and evaluating the extension component (see para. 3.28). The
Government agreed to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with qualified
entities for monitoring and evaluating the extension component.
p.    Proiect audit (see para.3.45). The Government agreed to have the project accounts
audited in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
q.    Collaborative research (see para 3.33.b). The Government agreed: (a) to constitute a
Collaborative Research Committee, acceptable to the Bank, to evaluate research
proposals and approve grants; and (b) apply, as the Committee's governing
procedures, the operating rules of PACIME, which are acceptable to the Bank, for
evaluating proposals made to the Collaborative Research Committee.
4.02.        The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
a.    NAFIN and the Government have signed an agreement for transferring the loan
proceeds (see para. 3.36).
b.    The Government would have signed satisfactory contracts with qualified entities for
monitoring and evaluation of the extension component (see para. 3.28).



- 38 -
B. Recomendatin
4.03.        With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a Bank loan of
US$150 million equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a three-year grace period.



-39-                                 Annxex I
Page 1 of 17
MEXIC
AGRICULTURAL TECHOLOGY PROJEC
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY SECTOR REVIEWE'
A. Backgrround
1.           Mexico's public agricultural research has reached a critical point. After much
progress over several decades, the impact of research on key commodities has begun to wane . The
growth of maize yields is not adequate, that of wheat and sorghum has slowed, and that on beans has
virtually halted. Coffee and cotton, the traditional exports, production has risen slowly or fallen.
There have been impressive technical changes for some exportable fruits and vegetables-but the
output of others has been untouched by public research.
2.           This comes at a time of important shifts in Mexico's agriculture. With major
changes in land use-the closing of the agricultural frontier; slower, more expensive new irrigation-
Mexico must generate technologies to raise yields per unit of land, and do so in the tropical and
rainfed areas have benefitted less from past research and extension.
3.           The closing of the frontier in the mid-1960s ended the option of sowing more land,
the key source of past growth. Where there is land to bring under cultivation, it may be of poorer
quality, raising the investment needed to achieve improved output.
4.           More recently, the rising cost and slowdown of new irrigation have put added stress
on the rainfed and tropical areas, where development problems are already difficult because of greater
variability in precipitation, more fragile soils, and higher pest pressure. The tropics are less able to
borrow from the experience and technology of temperate countries, as happened in irrigated Mexico.
And compared with richer farmers in irrigated lands, farmers in tropical and rainfed land, tend to be
poorer, more subsistence oriented, and less capable of bearing risk-thus less likely to attract private
research and extension programs.
5.           Other developments have affected research and extension as well. When highly
productive cultivars of cereals and oilseeds became available in the 1950s and 1960s, Mexican
adaptive research and extension, plus greater input use, led to swift production gains. For many
important crops-sorghum, wheat, soybeans, rice-those stimuli are weaker now and the rate of
potential yield increase is slower. National research must reinforce this traditional source of growth
or find alternatives.
6.           Developments in private research involve the growth of competing domestic and
foreign sources of output, novel research techniques, and innovative farming practices. Employing
these techniques in Mexico, or importing the products of their use, will require modifications in the
national program. Using imported scientific outputs is complicated by the advent of a new legal
environment for biological research, an area that may improve incentives for private research in
crops traditionally in the public domain.
to. Report No. 9297-ME of March 12, 1991.



-40 -                                 Annex I
Page 2 of 17
7.           All these challenges occur as the Mexican Government has drastically cut staff and
funds for public research and extension as part of reducing the public sector's role in agriculture. As
a result, the national program has to redefine itself. The questions it must answer are many. What is
the appropriate size and focus of public research and extension? Wbat is the best focus in region,
scientific discipline, and commodity? What changes in management and organization of public
research and extension agencies will achieve greater impact? What institutional and legal steps in
research and extension are needed to restore their contribution to growth? What public policies can
encourage greater private contribution? What changes in seed policy and production will improve the
generation and transfer of seed-based agricultural technologies? Are there specific barriers to growth
in certain key commodities that must be addressed?
Institutions
8.           ThW structure of Mexican agricultural research and extension appears in Figure 1.
Most of the focus of this review is on the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture, and Livestock
(INIFAP). This institute and its predecessors have been the center of agricultural technology change.
INIFAP is still the main public agency, doing 50-60 percent of national work and receiving nearly all
its support from the federal government.
9.           INIFAP is divided into 34 state Agricultural Research Centers (CIFAPs) spread
among north, central, and south regions. Research networks in crops, livestock, forestry, and
disciplines (for example, weed science and draft animals) provide commodity and thematic
organization. Most of INIFAP's work is in applied research.
10.          Federal parastatals, universities, and a few private organizations provide the other 40-
50 percent of the national research program. They conduct basic and applied research, with academic
centers doing more basic work than INIFAP. The International Agricultural Research Centers
(IARCs) are active, and one, the International Center for Wheat and Maize Improvement (CIMMYT),
is headquartered in Mexico. National and international private research involve crop improvement,
agricultural chemicals, animal production, veterinary drugs, and agricultural machinery. Private
emphasis is on adaptation of foreign technologies, not on basic investigation in Mexico.
11.          Extension is provided by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH), the agricultural trust funds, parastatals, and private input suppliers. After soaring in the
1970s, numbers of extensionists have plunged since the mid-1980s. Of the parastatals providing
research and technical assistance, the National Commission for Fruit Crops (CONAFRUT), the
National Cocoa Development Council (CONADECA), and the Mexican Tobacco Company
(TABAMEX) have been dissolved. Recent reforms have sharply reduced the role of the Mexican
Sugar Cane Production Institute (IMPA) and the Mexican Coffee Institute (INMECAFE).
B. Why are Public Research and Extension Necessary?
12.          Reseach. The main justification for public agricultural research is that private agents
cannot capture all benefits from research. This incentive failure occurs because information about
agricultural technology is partly a public good. Agricultural technologies having the character of
public goods include some types of crop improvement, agronomic practices, economic investigation,
and natural resource management. Because private agents will not provide optimal levels of research,
public investment is required in some endeavors if research is to produce significant benefits.



FIlomB 1. main 3rhI   of Mexican Agricultural Research and Latealeu Systi
PUBLIC   I          .                                      r-t  PRIVATE  t_                                I INTERIATIOWAL
| | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I |  J |RESEARCHI
I            -    '         I                                      I      -I                                       I   - _ SF  ___ 
I                                                                  I                  I               r- -           ---           ,          _   -
r     '   .                                                                              I '  .  - 8   s _~~~~     - |- ¢ - -     -    --, - --
IRESEARCRI               ,-4EXTEnSioNi  -          _....          r-4DOKESTICO-        IFOREIGNI   I RFCIONAL   IIUNIVERSITIESIICOVERNIENTSIIINTERNATIONALd
I , I , I                                I      |                    --'   I ,  _J ..{ORGANIZAIIONSI '----- -     - -§ ' -- - - --- X It.C I.OGA.I.A.I.NSI... CIGOCIT Y T
I   I               I          I                  I           I             I          I       IE.G.. IICAI
I              ~         ~         ~~I  I                        II                                                   _.                                                                   *
IACADEHICI            I SAR*   I         IACADEIICI I SARH I          I OTHER   I    INPUT  IIACADEHICI I INPUT  I
'   '   .  '     '        * '  .  J          |~~~~~~~ItlNISTRIESI  ISUPPLIEQSIL-.-I---  ISUPPLIERtSI
I                     I                          *   ,  ._   _.IJ                           _
iI               .                       I           
IItIFAPII   OTIER       IIPARASIAIALSIICNAI  I FEDERAL I PARA-   I IACRICULTURAI.1
*-'-- I(E.G. *CENTER  |   -' . "      '  IEXKENSIONIISTATALS I ITRUST FINDS I
| FOR APPLIED  I                     I SERVICE tIE.C..   | '
|BIOTECIHNOLOGT) I                    ' - ' | IUItCAFE I
OQ :
(D 
1-4
0
P,



- 42 -                                  Annex I
Page 4 of 17
13.           A second argument for public research is that private agents perceive some risks to
be so great that they do not invest adequately. If the riskiness of such research in public terms is less
than in private, then government research is again justified. This condition is more likely to o&+in in
poor and middle income countries like Mexico, where private firms are smaller, less diversified, and
so less capable of risk-bearing. Risks are especially large in plant breeding because it has a long
product development cycle. They are also significant in crop agronomy, which interacts strongly with
highly variable local conditions.
14.           A third reason for public research is that some work cannot be imported. This may
be the case because little "tradable" research takes place in temperate countries with the most
sophisticated scientific systems, or because tropical goods have such variable growing characteristics
and product quality. Tropical crops are subject to incentive and risk failures for both foreign and
domestic investment, thus they must be improved by national public research. Examples are found in
Mexico's highly diverse agroclimate, which allows for many crops-tropical vegetables and fruits,
coffee, and cocoa-with sizable growth potential that cannot easily be tapped by the simple import of
new methods.
15.           Extension. Some arguments for public interventions in extension are identical to those
in research. Because knowledge about new production methods is partly a public good, the costs of
garnering information justify public extension in the same way they justify public research. Firms
have no incentive to supply optimal levels of extension because they cannot recover all costs of doing
so. But extension is even less likely to be imported than research, because foreign firms will be
unwilling to bear the costs of providing services to local farmers, and because such firms assign no
value to reducing poverty.
16.           There are, however, distinctions between research and extension that create varying
degrees of public support to the two activities. One distinction is that public extension makes the
distribution of benefits from technical change more equitable. The reason is that economies of scale
in procuring knowledge make it cheaper for larger farmers to put it to productive use. Since small
farmers, find it more expensive to gain knowledge, they may have insufficient incentives to invest in
new techniques. Public extension is thus justified, to create more equitable access to new methods.
17.           In addition, extension is less risky than research because it typically starts from a base
of applicable scientific knowledge. As an example, firms can supply proven inputs (fertilizers and
agricultural chemicals) and provide a form of extension via their own marketing without doing any
research. This creates a division of labor between activities in which public extension is required
(agronomic practices, soil and water conservation) and activities associated with salable inputs, on
which private enterprise can supply advice. As a result, the share of public support relative to the
total of agricultural research in a country will always be more than the share of public support relative
to the total of agricultural extension.
C. Research Impact on Agricultural Productivity
18.           The impact of research on agricultural productivity in Mexico has been positive.
High rates of return have been calculated in wheat, maize, sorghum, and potatoes. Recent estimates
of internal rates of return range from 98 to 119 percent in wheat, and from 77 to 81 percent in maize.
Quantitative estimates are not available for rice, forage crops, fruits, or vegetables, but returns to
research have clearly been high in those as well.



- 43 -                                Anne I
Page 5 of 17
19.          Returns have apparently been highest in irrigated production systems; wheat research
is the best example. Returns to rainfed crops appear best in the zones of most reliable rainfall, as
illustrated by sorghum and some maize. In certain crops the impact of research has been weak; the
chief example is beans, though also tropical fruits and vegetables.
20.          Despite individual successes, the impact of research on output has been limited. This
is apparently because of underinvestment, the inherent difficulty of improving production of important
crops such as maize and beans in rainfed areas, and the relatively small area under irrigation (the
condition in which returns to research are strongest).
D. Bnk Support for Mexican Agricultural Research and Extension
21.          The Bank's previous involvement in Mexican agricultural research and extension was
limited to projects in rainfed agriculture, integrated rural development, irrigation, and rural credit
(Table AI.1). There has been no major project in agricultural research, and only a small one in
extension.
22.          Rainfed agriculture and integrated rural development. Most projects had small or no
research components and extension components of 10-20 percent of the loan amount. The Program
for Integrated Rural Development in the Humid Tropics (PRODERITH) I ane the National Plan for
Support to Rainfed Agriculture (PLANAT) had major research components, designed to alter some of
the agricultural system's past slant toward irrigation.
23.          PRODERITr  was successful in a whole-farm approach to research, in building
research infrastructure, and in establishing extension links. PLANAT (Loan 1945-ME) was designed
to support rainfed districts; its project completion report (Report No. 8335-ME) noted successes in the
on-farm testing component, with positive impacts on commodity output.
24.          Irrigated agriculture. The Bank has substantial experience in irrigated agriculture in
Mexico. An irrigation subsector survey (Report 4516-ME, 1983) identified key issues as the need for
stronger links between research and extension, the utility of a whole-farm (as opposed to a
commodity) approach, water pricing, and water use efficiency. As with rainfed projects, key factors
in impact were the intensity of extension and the quality of its links to research.
25.            ural credit. Bank support to rural credit projects has included indirect financing to
extension via the public agricultural trust funds. Emphasis in these projects has been on funding
existing technologies and on promoting their use in demonstrations, since it was assumed that those
technologies were credit worthy without furt};er research.
26.          Extension. A sector review (Report No. 5255-ME) in November 1984 indicted the
extension system for poor staff training, low salaries, absence of a career path, inadequate response to
farmers' needs, limited coordination among agencies, and insufficient operating expenditures. Other
issues raised were the unequal extension coverage of rich and poor agroclimates, extension
techniques, and cost-sharing. A Program for Training, Technical Assistance, and Research
(PROCATI, Loan 2859-ME) was initiated in 1987 to remedy deficiencies listed by the review.
PROCATI invests in infrastructure and training while providing operating expenditures, staff
incentives, and a better mechanism to accommodate farmers' needs.



- 44 -                               AnnLxlI
Page 6 of 17
Table Al.1 Bank Involvement in MexiiQo Agricultural
Research and Extension since 1975
(US$ million at time of effectiveness)
Initial    Project    Loan        Research     Extension
P[QieCU                     Year      Amount   Amount        Com,net   Component
Papaloapan Rural
Development   1053-ME       1975        138.5       50.0         -0-         -0-
Integrated Rural Development Project I (PIDER I)
1110-ME      1975        294.5      110.0         .0-          15.1
Integrated Rural Development Project H (PIDER II)
1462-ME      1977        255.0      120.0         -0-          10.0
Integrated Rural Development Project for the Humid Tropics (PRODERITH)
1553-ME      1978        149.0       56.0          33.7        16.2
National Plan for Support to Rainfed Agriculture (PLANAT)
1945-ME      1981        797.0      280.0         137.3        45.5
Bajo Rio Bravo/
San Juan II    2100-ME      1982       506.0       180.0         -0-         26.7
Note: Credit projects have been omitted.
Source: World Bank files.
27.          Lessons learned. The assumption that technology was available led to exclusion of
major research components from past credit and irrigation projects. The thinking was that major
investments could succeed with only incremental support from research and extension because
adequate methods already existed. Project experience generally confirms the validity of this approach.
28.          In irrigated agriculture, the chief lesson is that rapid prompt adoption of new cultivars
was the main source of growth from research and extension. Advances from using new crop
management methods were relatively slow. Farmers organizations helped irrigated projects by raising
the efficiency of extension with needed local support.
29.          The principal lesson from rainfed projects is that more intensive extension can speed
the transfer of existing technology. Such transfer is inherently slower in rainfed than in irrigated
areas, but it has been higher with intensive extension than with less concentrated efforts. These
conclusions about productivity impacts of extension and of adaptive research have been used to justify
continuing Bank support to components of PRODERITH II (Loan 2658-ME) and Chiapas Rural
Development (Loan 2526-ME).



- 45 -                                Annex I
Page 7 of 17
30.          Despite some specific successes in rainfed agriculture, sluggish growth indicates vital
need for more is resources for technology transfer. (Ihe successes include better yields of rainfed
wheat, adoption of hybrid maizes, and greater fertilizer use.) There are many basic technical
problems yet to solve, but other work may involve adaptations of existing knowledge, which can be
facilitated with limited research. It is well to note that piecemeal approach with project-specific
components has not been successful in Bank experience.
E. Barriers to Greater Research Impact on Productivity
I. Funding
31.          Lack of money is the main problem in the Mexican national agricultural research
system. During the 1970s, Mexico spent between 0.27 and 0.59 percent of its annual agricultural
product on public research, a low value in comparison with countries of similar income levels; since
the federal budget cuts of the 1980s, it now spends about 0.4 percent, still too low. Even adding the
contributions of non-federal public, academic, and private research does not change our conclusion
about the lack of money, since any comparison is generally made by counting only central
government expenditures on research.
Recommendations
32.          Mexico should make it a priority to raise public funding to a level comparable to that
of countries with similar income. Since studies world wide show that agricultural research is a
profitable public investment, additional expendture,in this area cannot be categorized as a subsidy to
unwise investment or to consumption.
33.          There are several paths to greater public funding. The obvious one is wo transfer
public expenditure from untargeted consumption or credit subsidies; tho funds reallocated to research
would be a small fraction of these unproductive subsidies.
34.          A second path is to improve private and state funding of federal research. The
potential for private contributions is high (and there are examples of it being tapped successfully); it
can be exploited further by creating new farmers organizations (patronatos), by strengthening such
organizations where they are weak, and by allowing state and local research directors full authority to
seek state, international, and private funds, subject only to ex-post financial and scientific audit.
35.          A third path is to ensure that other sources-laboratory fees, crop sales, seed sales,
plant breeding royalties and licenses-are fully tapped. This can be done by charging market rates for
services and commodities, and by reforming the seed law to allow INIFAP to get revenue from its
plant breeding efforts. Funds gained from sales of goods and se.vices may be small, since research
stations already charge market rates for them. Funds from plant breeding royalties may be substantial
(but no good estimate is available).
36.          A fourth path is to reduce the share of research expenditure on wages and salaries.
Obviously, laboratories and research stations cannot function effectively if the only cost element is
labor. However, this reform cannot be achieved by reducing staff and shifting wage savings to
material costs, since large staff reductions have already taken place.



- 46 -                                Annex I
Page 8 of 17
2. Efficiency of Resource Use in Public Research
37.          The efficiency of a research system has two components: allocative ("studying the
right problems") and technical ("getting the most out of resources dedicated to a particular problem").
Allocative efficiency was measured with a form of congruence analysis. Technical efficiency is
measured with a review with rate of return studies to Mexican agricultural research.
38.          If allocations with respect to demand for research output are poor, then the allocative
efficiency of research is said to be bad. If allocative efficiency is low, then changes in research
priorities could improve the return to government investment. To examine this question, we analyzed
measures of research resource allocation with respect to their congruence with region, productive
sector, and commodity.
39.          Regional priorities (north/center/south). Public priorities were principally in the
irrigated north and in the temperate central highlands. In 1976, when spending on agricultural
research was highest in relation to the value of agricultural output, half of the crop experimental
centers were in the north. From 1978 to 1984, about 35 percent of all experiments took place in the
north, 37 percent in the center, and 29 percent in the south.
40.          The south apparently benefitted least from public crop improvement. Most varieties
released from 1942 to 1985 were for the north and center. Of cultivars released in that period, 43
percent were for irrigated conditions and another one-third were for mixed rainfed and irrigated
conditions. Wheat, exclusively an arid/irrigated and temperate crop, accounted for almost 30 percent
of all releases. From 1976 to 1985, only 4 maize varieties were released in the south-while 11 were
released in the center, and 14 in the north.
41.          To test the efficiency of current allocations, congruence analysis was used to compare
demand for research output and INIFAP allocations. Crop area and the value of production were
used as measures of demand for research; numbers of experiments planned for 1990-94 were used to
measure INIFAP allocations. Both indices established that INIFAP's planned allocations were highly
congruent with crop area and the value of production-and thus that little apparently could be gained
by changing allocations to different states.
42.          While INIFAP's allocations are congruent with regional output, they are not fully
consistent with efficient use of public resources. This is because private research is weaker in the
tropical south. The area's greater environmental complexity makes research and extension costs
higher, which gives private firms less incentive to invest. Results of foreign private research are
more well adapted to the north and center and can be imported there at lower cost than in the south.
Farmers in the south are poorer and can contribute less to financing research, and it is concluded that
INIFAP should do more in the tropics.
43.          INIFAP's defect is not compensated by other public or academic research. As one
example, there is substantial work in the tropics-including that by the Post-Graduate College, the
National Water Commission (CNA), the private livestock sector, and two parastatals (INMECAFE
and IMPA)-but this work is not in basic food crops or in tropical fruits. The existence of this work
does not diminish the need for INIFAP to concentrate more on the tropics.



- 47 -                                 Annex I
Page 9 of 17
44.           Sor priorities (irrigated/rainfe). The past focus has been on irrigated agriculture,
and the best yield gains have been achieved there. There is high transferability of breeding research
for yield under irrigated conditions to rainfed conditions therefore-as seen in the wheat, maize, and
bean cultivars used in Mexico-such research with irrigation can continue to benefit rainfed areas.
The historical congruence between materials developed and systems was admittedly poor, but some of
the incongruence was, and still is, compensated for by the transferability of results from irrigated to
rainfed sites.
45.           The recommended shift of research attention to rainfed areas ought to continue. First,
it is difficult to adapt for rainfed conditions, those cultivars originally selected with irrigation, because
there is greater site-specificity in dryland farming. Second, finding robust drought resistance is more
formidable in rainfed areas and it requires local trials. Third, transferring crop management research
from irrigated to rainfed areas Is not really possible because of interactions with moisture availability.
Last, private research is negligible for some rainfed/tropical questions. Private firms are unlikely to
study drought or heat tolerance in rainfed/tropical systems because the risks are too high. Such firms
will not study cropping practices related o improved cultivars until public agencies have done basic
research to develop those cultivars.
46.           We asked three main questions about the technical efficiency of the public research
system. Is its organization adequate? Does it use appropriate disciplines? Does it devote enough
resources to basic research?
47.           Organization. INIFAP was created in 1985 by joining the separate centers on crops
(INIA), livestock (INIP), and forestry (INIF). Administration by regional centers gave way to
administration through state centers (CIFAPs). Research networks permit collaboration within
disciplines working on different crops, or in different enviromnents, and across disciplines on
common problems.
48.           The current organization is appropriate, and it is recommended strongly that there be
no further major changes in the organization of INIFAP; it achieves economies of scale by jointly
managing crop, livestock, and forestry. It avoids duplication of common themes-pastures, forage
crops, agroforestry, soil fertility, economics and natural resources-in what formerly were the three
centers. The structure of state centers, in which the ClFAPs are political units, is more efficient for
state and local cost-sharing and for responding to specific problems. The system of research networks
permits collaboration within disciplines on common methods, and between disciplines on common
problems.
49.           The CIFAP organization is sometimes criticized for lacking the ecological focus, that
was imposed by the regional centers of INIFAP's predecessors. This criticism is invalid. Since the
location of the centers has, in fact, not changed, experiments are still done ir a range of agroclimates.
Moreover, INIFAP networks can keep an ecological focus.
50.           Changes are needed, however, in the management of the research networks. There
are now 46 networks, many of which have too few resources to do anything. Maintaining them is an
administrative burden that detracts from scientific work. The number should be reduced by
consolidating some networks. Network coordinators should have small federal core budgets, but no
administrative responsibility over CIFAP budgets.



- 48 -                               Annex I
Page 10 of 17
51.          Disciplinary priorities. Current emphasis is too strong on plant breeding and too
weak on crop management. Plant breeding appears to be chosen as a technique for solving all
problems, to the detriment of such techniques as adaptive agronomic research. Especially notable is
the insufficient analysis of farm yields. There will always be a gap between experimental and farm
yields, but the great yield gaps now observed clearly indicate that not enough adaptive research has
been done.
52.          Added emphasis on crop management research will require greater input from the
economics program within INIFAP. While the quality of economics work in the institute appears
very good, its insights are not always well incorporated in the other scientific programs.
53.          Basic/pled research. INIFAP has little basic research as such, but it does have
access to the research done in Mexican and other universities, and in the international agricultural
research centers. The basic component of INIFAP research can be expanded by improving contacts
with Mexican universities and by improving resources to the CENIDs. One suggestion is to make
grants to universities for work on basic topics, marginal areas, or in disciplines that are too small for
an INIFAP program.
3. Legal Barriers to Private Sector Research
54.          Legal and fiscal barriers to private and international activities can hamper initiatives
that complements public research. As a result, private research may not replace public research
where it has a comparative advantage in doing so.
35.          In the case of Mexico, there is little evidence that such barriers have hampered
research in the past. The public and private branches of the agricultural research system have been
quick to adopt foreign technologies, including machines, chemicals, and intermediate inputs such as
germplasm. Major private research and extension activities-defined to include the use of results of
foreigd research in Mexico-were identified in livestock production, seeds, agrochemicals, and
agricultural machinery. The ability to rely on some imported technologies may weaken, however, as
research emphasis shifts to rainfed and tropical zones, for which "tradable" technologies are less
available.
56.          Mexico's strongest legal barriers are those affecting rights to intellectual property and
the fiscal and other incentives to invest in research and extension.
57.          Intechleaapm1gey isues. These issues are three: plant variety protection (PVP),
general patent law, and trade secrecy. The outstanding issue was PVP, which has been recognized in
Mexico only since June 1991. Until now, the absence of PVP has not greatly affected incentives for
seed-based research and extension in Mexico. Many genetic materials are hybrids and have some
inherent biological protection; firms producing and selling varieties, which lack biological protection,
have protected themselves by earning good reputations for quality and reliability of supply. In the
future, however, the government's recognition of PVP should improve incentives for the private
development or import of single-cross maize hybrids. The new patent law of 1991 provides expanded
protection.



-49 -                                AnnexL
Page II of 17
58.          Fiscal and other barriers. Other legal and fiscal barriers to private research and
extension are not very imposing. The main barrier is the tax-deduction limit (one percent of gross
sales) on contributions to research funds. Since one reform in the funding of public research is to
seek greater private participation through producers organizations, this limit ought to be raised.
4. Extensisn
59.          The problems of extension are much like those of research. Resources after the
budget cuts of the mid-1980s are too limited. In addition, the extension service has sometimes failed
to establish the right priorities, to maintain strong links to research, and to use field staff efficiently.
Recmmend at ions
60.          Funding of the extension service. The public extension service ought to be enlarged,
it is inadequate to contribute to renewed growth. After expanding in the 1970s, the public extension
system-SARH, the agricultural trust funds, and parastatals-has shrunk by about one-third. Even
before the cutbacks of the 1980s, the service was too small to achieve the results in rainfed and
tropical areas that have been achieved elsewhere with better extension coverage.
61.          Reforms in the conduct of extensiog. Reforms in extension management are a
necessity. One reform is to move more staff to rainfed and tropical areas. Congruence of extension
staff with the value of production is very good, but the extension activities of input suppliers are
better in irrigated zones than in others. The congruence analysis is misle6ing, because it does not
count those input-related services. Some shift of the public service to rainfed and tropical zones can
thus be justified by the paucity of private input-related activities there.
62.          A second reform is greater cost-sharing. This would affect mainly the extension
service of SARH and the parastatal for coffee, since better cost-sharing has already begun in the trust
funds. While increased cost-sharing is important and should be encouraged, it is inherently limited by
the need to provide an implicit extension subsidy to poor farmers. Because of this factor, cost-
sharing should be seen as only a partial substitute for more public resources.
63.          A third reform is reallocation of extension workers' time. Extension workers spend
too much on time administration and statistics and not enough time on technical assistance to farmers.
A national survey of extensionists suggests that economies of 10-15 percent could be achieved by
reducing the burden of extraneous jobs. This is not a panacea but would be a productive reform.
64.          A fourth reform is to provide more training. Many extension workers do not have
technical degrees-and with those degrees often lack continued in-service training.
5. Seed Production and Marketing
65.                        Much of the growth of Mexican agriculture has come from the use of
improved crop cultivars. Despite the importance of that source of growth, bad policy has slowed the
spread of promising seed-based technologies. The seed system should be altered to reduce
government involvement, to improve the efficiency of remaining government activities, and to



-5SO0-                               A     LAnn  I
Page 12 of 17
stimulate more private participation. To achieve those goals, additional reforms are needed in market
regulation, in the role of the National Seed Company (PRONASE), and In scientific policy affecting
the seed industry.
66.          Mirgulatidn. Govenument can choose between a "European" regulatory
structure or a "United States" type. In the U.S. type, famers' judgments about seed quality govern
the industry and there is no public seed certification. Any private firm can sell "certified seed", and
viability of a firm depends only on the market test of farmers' use. In a European structure, public
agencies certify seed characteristics.
67.          Mexico has a European system. The dominant argument for maintaining it is that the
risks of relying solely on private judgments about seed quality are great; firms sometimes have
incentives to supply poor seed. A second argument is that public certification affords some protection
to producers of new plant cultivars. Without certification, producers may have to seek protection
through costly legal means.
68.          Were Mexico to continue with the European system, reforms would still be required.
The process of varietal certification must be more transparent. Revisions in the variety trial
inscription or import/export procedures must be published officially, be made avaUable to the entities
entering materials for inscription, and include comprehensive and timely statistical analysis. As to
quality control, the capacity of the National Seed Inspection and Certification Service (SNICS) must
be strengthened, since it cannot currently fulfill its mandate. SNICS should become an independent
federal agency with budgetary autonomy, more staff, and better independence from seed producers,
especially PRONASE.
69.          The role of PRONSE. Whatever regulatory structure is chosen, the government
must decide the fate of the public seed company, PRONASE. One argument for a public seed
company is that the private sector lacks incentives to produce certain seeds, mainly varieties in which
it cannot recover the full costs of development (the "variety argument"). The private sector is also
thought to lack incentives to produce seed and to market in poor, highly variable areas (the "poor
farmer argument").
70.          The variety argument is valid for research, but it is not valid for seed production and
marketing. Private companies do sell varieties; they can link superior seed quality and terms of
supply to brand names, thus capturing the ful rewrns of their efforts. As a result, the variety
argument alone cannot justify a public seed production and marketing company. As much as any
private firm, public firm faces the variety problem, and must solve it by supplying seed of a
distinctive quality. PRONASE has not done this. In fact, poor seed quality is the principal farmers'
criticism of PRONASE.
71.          According to the argument, "poor farmer" a public seed company should supply the
poor areas ignored by private firms. ft is true that the total costs of seed supply (research,
development, marketing) are higher in poor areas-but they are mainly higher in research, in which
failures often occur. This fact justifies a subsidy to public research. In seed production and
marketing, however, costs are not necessarily greater, thus so no subsidy is unavoidably justified to
those activities. And no incentive failure exists to justify the entry of a public firm where there is no
private firm. An equity argument may justify some form of income transfer to private farmers or a
subsidy on inputs, but such a subsidy is not inescapably a public one.



- 51 -                               Annex I
Page 13 of 17
72.          While PRONASE's mandate has been cut from 23 crops to four (maize, beans, wheat,
and rice) there is still some debate about its activities. Using the poverty argument to continue
subsidies to PRONASE requires a direct link between its activities and poor areas. PRONASE's main
crop has been wheat, a crop of the irrigated north. If PRONASE continues to exist on poverty
grounds, that implies a move out of the north-and a corresponding change in its crop portfolio.
73.          Scientific policy. PRONASE formerly had preferential access to INIFAP cultivars.
The result of this preference was to exclude private Mexican firms from adapting INIFAP germplasm,
and to deprive INIFAP of income from plant breeding royalties. The key reform of the new seed law
of 1991 was to remove this preference, so that all organizations and individuals now have equal
access to germplasm for plant breeding and seed production. Giving Mexican seed companies better
access to INIFAP materials, will allow them to compete better with international firms; the reform
may also provide seed royalties and license fees that can be invested in INIFAP.
74.          Two other reforms would generate more competition in seed-based technical changes.
Responsibility for producing foundation seed from breeder's seed should be transferred from
PRONASE to INIFAP and other institutions. Restrictions on international centers releasing
germplasm in Mexico should also be eliminated.
6. Relations to the International Aericultural Research Centers (IARCs)
75.          The IARCs are important because they provide training, new research methods, access
to foreign results, and germplasm for Mexican crop improvement programs. Center contributions
vary across crops and regions, but they are clearly vital sources of knowledge for Mexican
agriculture.
76.          Changes in the priorities of the IARCs, while they do not depend on Mexican national
decisions, are analogous to the issues of allocative efficiency within INIFAP. Various criticisms have
arisen of the centers' priorities in Mexico with respect to production system and type of activity.
77.          Priorities of the IARCs. The argument has been made that the IARCs could do more
in highland tropical and rainfed areas, thereby enhancing their contribution to Mexican agriculture.
This is unlikely to be important or practical. The centers' contributions by production system are in
fact mainly in rainfed. In addition, CIMMYT research in rainfed maize, CUAT work on beans,
cassava, and tropical pastures, CIP's on potatoes, and ICRISAT's on sorghum are largely in rainfed.
With respect to the highlands, CIP's potato work and ICRISAT's cold-tolerant sorghum do
concentrate on the higher altitudes. The contribution of the IARCs, therefore, appears congruent with
the needs of rainfed and tropical sites. The one major effort in irrigated production is the CIMMYT
wheat program.
78.          Further reallocation of the IARCs' work to Mexican rainfed areas would be
impractical, in that it might be inconsistent with the global priorities of individual centers (as
determined by the sum of their relations with all partner countries, not just Mexico). Because Mexico
is unlikely to affect the IARCs' allocations, the appropriate policy is to allocate Mexican national
resources taking into account the centers' existing contributions.



- 52 -                               Annex I -
Page 14 of 17
79.          Another criticism is that the centers should do more in germplasm bank development.
This does not appear relevant in Mexico. There is an International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
(IBPGR) program in Mexico that contributes to INIFAP as well as to national universities. The
principal effort of the centers in Mexico is through germplasm exchanges; the exchanged materials
can be put into Mexican banks. Since it is unlikely that the centers will do more in germplasm,
Mexico's policy response should be to raise its own investment while taking into account
complementary IARC efforts.
So.          Reforms in the national use of IARC resources. The impact of international
agricultural research within a host country depends a good deal on the capacity of the national
program. The chief barrier to better use of the lARCs in Mexico is lack of funds on the Mexican
side (quite a different picture from that in countries with weaker scientific and technical capacity,
where the LARCs are substitutes for national programs). The main reform is thus to raise Mexican
support to the national research system so as to make more efficient use of external scientific
contributions.
7. Problems in Individual Commodities
81.          In addition to reforms in funding and management, complementary changes are
needed in research on Mexico's individual commodities. Those reviewed-maize, wheat, beans,
tropical livestock, and coffee-account for more than half of INIFAP's portfolio and for 60 percent of
the agricultural product of the country.
82.          Maize. Maize grows in a dozen discrete environments and covers 40 percent of the
annual crop area of Mexico. Mexican achievements in maize improvement and agronomy have been
good, as measured by rate of return studies and by the steady, if slow, growth of yields over many
years. Despite advances, however, output has not kept up with demand. In particular, productivity
growth in most of the crop's rainfed environments has been less than that of irrigated agriculture.
83.          The main problems confronting maize research are the complexity of production
environments, past neglect of hybridization as a desirable characteristic of cultivars for smallholder
production, and the relatively weak contribution of the private sector, given maize's importance to
Mexican agriculture.
84.          The diversity of maize environments makes a successful research strategy particularly
complex. In fact, principal defect of the research/extension system has been the failure to deal with
this complexity in the transfer of results of past maize improvement. The indicator of this failure is
the very high gap between experimental and farm yields in rainfed areas. When successes have taken
place, such as the Plan Puebla and PLANAT, they have not been sustained or spread over wider
areas.
85.          Finding the explanation for adoption failures must be a priority in continuing maize
research. Detailed recommendations have been available for more than 30 years, but farmers often
ignore them. While it is customary to blame the extension service for farmer unwillingness, it is hard
to see why extension per se should have failed with maize when it succeeded with wheat. Most of the
fault rests with the maize technology proposed to farmers. Efforts to improve that technology will
require more analysis of limiting factors at the farm level.



- 53 -                                Annle I
Page 15 of 17
86.          Remedying the failure to transfer breeding results necessitates more emphasis on crop
agronomy in areas of high genetic yield potential. This implies stating regional priorities based on
analysis of limiting factors, and then defining appropriate research strategies to lessen the effects of
those factors. One example is to orient maize research toward the tropical and subtropical areas
where there is less competition from other crops (hybrid sorghum and rainfed wheat). The
government has taken a major step with its High Technology Maize Program (PRONAMAT), begun
in 1988.
87.          Another shortcoming has been neglect of hybridization strategies in rainfed and
tropical areas. This neglect is attributable, apparently, to the belief that poor farmers could not afford
to buy hybrid seed every year and that commercial seed supply was too risky for them. Even if this
thinking were well-founded, shifting research strategy toward lower-yielding varieties would be
inappropriate. If the costs and risks of commercial seeds are excessive, the correct policy is to
subsidize seed production and marketing on equity grounds. Mexico should pursue the more
productive research direction to maximize yields and use financial incentives to treat the cost/risk
problem. More emphasis on hybridization can be part of a strategy of using resources to produce
breeding materials for private sector single-cross hybrids in irrigated environments, for single- and
double-cross hybrids for high potential rainfed environments, and for synthetics and open-pollinated
varieties for poorer environments.
88.          Private contributions to adaptive maize research and extension have been small. The
risks of adapting germplasm have been high, with private firms unable to capture returns to
agronomic and farming systems research. Yet, advances in public research can engender later private
initiatives in supply of seeds, fertilizers, and other agricultural chemicals. The public research sector,
thus should nurture close relations with private input suppliers so as to maximize the benefits of
future interactions in adaptive research.
89.          INIFAP and other public maize breeding efforts must continue to maintain diversified
sources of new germplasm in addition to that available from CIMMYT. Collaborating with Mexican
universities, public basic research must turn greater attention to special topics, especially for the
tropics and rainfed areas. Where there are commercial materials, public improvement programs have
to make more explicit comparisons with them to ensure that the public materials are competitive.
90.          Wheat. Wheat research and extension have been the principal successes of Mexico's
program. Production impact and economic rates of return to public research have been exceptionally
high. Now, however, growth in wheat yield potential has begun to slow, the irrigated crop faces
competition for water, and the rainfed crop lags in both potential and actual yield.
91.          The main problem in wheat research will be competition from other crops with
irrigation. This problem must be dealt with in several ways.
92.          First, there must be an expanded effort to raise wheat yield potential. The recent
slowing of growth in that potential, the stiffer economic competition from other crops under a more
efficient water pricing regime, and the ultimate narrowing of the gap between potential and actual
yield-all made it essential that Mexico devote greater resources to wheat research. The contribution
of CIMMYT to the Mexican wheat program is sizable, but it cannot substitute for added national
resources.



- 54 -                                Annex I
Page 16 of 17
93.          A second reform is to concentrate more on efficient water use. This, too, will require
added resources-but it will produce results applicable to other crops (rice and vegetables), thus the
cost need not be borne by wheat alone. Since water use studies may well conclude ti.at incremental
wheat research is uncompetitive, results need to be compared explicitly with proposals justifying
greater investment in yield potential work.
94.           Another general problem facing wheat research is adaptation in rainfed areas. There
have been adoption failures of wheat techniques that appeared to be successful on experiment stations.
This argues for more emphasis on economic analysis of experimental results in a yield-gap
frameworl.
95.          Rainfed wheats have benefitted from the transfer of irrigated materials, and have
achieved fast yield growth in the last 15 years. This trend is unlikely to continue for much longer,
however, without development of expressly rainfed varieties; there must be greater emphasis on
particular traits in rainfed wheats (earliness and drought tolerance). The principal recommended
change is to concentrate resources in one location, using others as test sites for material developed at
the main location. More work will also be needed on crop agronomy in rainfed systems, since the
latter has also tended to borrow from irrigated.
96.  .               Beans cover 10-15 percent of the annual crop area and are grown in many
environments. Research has developed varieties and corresponding agronomic recommendations for
the main types. Despite a long-term research effort and generous financial incentives to producers,
bean research has largely failed to have a production impact. The main problems facing bean
research are poor adaptation of improved cultivars, lack of basic research, and absence of easily
adapted international cultivars.
97.           Sluggish progress in bean production poses three main issues for future work. First is
the widespread failure of introduced varieties to be adopted or, where adopted, to have a great
impact. Voluminous work on bean breeding and disease resistance has raised potential yield, but with
little effect on farms. While this is true of most major crops in Mexico, beans are a distinctive
example. This is partly because beans are grown in some of the poorer farm areas, but it also
indicates that more on-farm and adaptive research will be required to produce new technologies for
field conditions. A special program for beans (PRONAFAT) is attempting to address this problem,
and it is one to which INIFAP should give priority. (A related issue is the apparent failure of
PRONASE to produce some of the better bean varieties released by INIFAP. Those varieties are now
used extensively in the 1990 PRONAFAT program, explicitly designed to close the gap between
experimental and farm yields.)
98.           As a second issue for the future, public agencies have to consider the opportunity cost
of foregone work on other enterprises. This economic consideration is all the more urgent in public
research on beans in view of the foreseeable small private contribution. An important technique in
setting further bean research priorities will be to compare them with other opportunities-crops,
livestock, and forestry-in the same environments. Related to this is the fact that beans are relatively
costly and other enterprises might displace them. The research system has to consider these incentive
distortions in allocating resources.



- 55 -                                A    Dnne .
Page 17 of 17
99.          A third future issue is the failure of international and private research to help bean
production as they have helped maize and wheat production; this suggests some defect in the
fundamental research on the crop. While some failure to import and adapt research results is due to
the crop's relative lack of importance in much of the temperate world, there is also a worldwide
difficulty in raising yields. It may be important, therefore, to allocate more resources to very basic
research outside INIFAP, in collaboration with Mexico's universities and institutes.
100.         ]Mia livestock. Livestock products have made up about 30 percent of the total
gross value of Mexican agricultural output since 1950; livestock research is an important share of the
public portfolio. The principal area of unresolved research problems and extension is the tropics,
where the limiting factors to livestock production are feed availability and quality, the adaptation of
improved breeds, and animal disease.
101.         Wrong priorities and low primary production the main problems in public research for
tropical livestock. Unlike some crop research, livestock research could be made more efficient by
short-term shifts in priorities. The basic reform is to concentrate more on primary production, always
limited in the tropics by erratic moisture supply and low soil fertility. While forages are now a major
share of INFAP's work, expansion of work on primary production must continue. This includes
both pasture evaluation (particularly of legumes), to find adapted materials, and pasture management
issues. It is also urgent to compare new materials to conventional species under farmers'
management.
102.         Redistribution of existing resources should concentrate personnel and laboratory
facilities at fewer sites, with careful analysis of the means and objectives of the National Disciplinary
Centers (CENIDs). All cross-breeding work of Zebu by European types should be put into one
station and oriented toward dual-purpose animals. There should also be less research on pigs and
poultry, in view of the commercial alternatives and of the low probability of success.
103.         Colff. Coffee is Mexico's largest agricultural export, having replaced cotton some
time ago. Output grew through an increase in area, not yield. Though farmer recommendations have
been available since the 1950s for cultivars and agronomic practices, the impact of research has been
small.
104.         The main problems facing coffee research are two. Coffee is a permanent crop with a
long product-development cycle, thus research results take time to manifest themselves. And in
Mexico, there is a near-total absence of private contribution to research, a marked contrast with other
major coffee-growing countries.
105.         The principal recommendation is to merge into one research and extension agency
coffee research program of INIFAP and that of the parastatal, INMECAFE. (The government
already plans to take production and marketing activities out of INMECAFE and to restrict its
activities to research and extension.) This new entity would become a producers organization, with
most of its funding from a growers levy. The basic argument for public research, especially given
the risky and long-term nature of coffee, implies public support to research within such a producers
organization.



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Project Cost Swin ry
NexS                                      USS                                   X Total
....................................           ...........................         X   Foreign         Base
Local      Foreign          Total         Local  Foreign    Total           Exchange          Costs
............. ... ..................................  ------------------    ------------------------
A. RESEARCH
1. ALL CENIDs                          3273848    20022501    23296349               1032      6556       7588               86             3
2. ALL CIFAPs                         45690270   162259132   207949402              14570    53166    67736                  78            26
3. RESEARCH INCR.REC.COSTS           157279626    32496275   189775901              51160     10656    61816                  17           24.
--   -   -  -   -  .  .  .  -  -   -  -       -   - - - - - - - - - - - -    .   ---------------.-.-------- .....   .. ........ ......  ... _.
Sub-Total                               206243744   214777908   421021651              66763    70378   137141                   51            54
B. INST.DEVELOPNENTIRESEARCH
1. LIBRARY SYSTEMS                    16475320       6871932    23347252             5359      2246       7605               29             3
2. RESEARCH MANAGEMENT                 8548402       3620545      12168947           2785      1179       3964               30             2
3. OTHER RESEARCH SUPPORT             12101762    43025940    55127702               3953    14004    17957                  78              7
Sub-Tota(                                 37125484    53518416    9C643900             12098    17428    29526                   59            12
C. EXTENSION
1. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER               174268425    98904821   273173245              56450    32531      88982                36            35
...............................................................  ----------.-...-----....---------..--.  . ................---------------------............  Z
Totat BASELINE COSTS                    417637652   367201145   784838797             135311   120337   255648                   47           100
Physical Contingencies                15080673      14003864      29084537           4912      4562       9474               48             4_
Price Contingencies                   60594922    46482470   1070M92                20465    14413    34879                  41            14
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    493313247   427687479   921000725             160688   139312   300000                   46           117
-========S=== -=                                                  - - -:- --- -=-
..................................................................................................._.,._._._._._
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 4J3/1992 9:13



mEXICO
ACRICULTURAL TECHIWLOCT PROJECT
Sumry Accourt by Project Componhnt
NeAs
RESEARCN                              OTHER
IlCR.REC.C    LIBRARY    RESEARCN   RESEARCH   TECHNOLOGY
ALL CENIDs ALL ClFAPs    OSTS          SYSTEMS  IUJUAENENT    SUWPORT    TRANSFER
1. INVESIHET COSTS
....................
A. INFRASTMTURE
1. NEV IFUASTUCTURE                        0    13849V95            0           0           0            0    13906237
2. FACILITIES RENAUIUTATION           211216     2411042            0           0           0            0      650656
...,,,. ... ............. ...................................................,. ... ... ,  _
S*b S~otI                             ^281216    162603              0           0           0            0    14556593
S. EWUIPNENT
1. GENt. AGRICULTUIAL EQUIP.            8916     478W93             0           0           0            0    29699097
2. TRACTOIIS                           89768      5648640           0           0            0           0           0
3. FARN IUIE EQUIPMENT                  =7583    20953656           0           0            0           0           0
4. TAG. & OIFFUSION ENEIIT                  0     5218716           0            0           0           0           0
S. LABORATORY EWIPMENT               8411827    23192458            0            0           0           0.          0
6. COPTERS & ACCESSORIES                    0           0           0      616321            0    24280638     3068922
T. COLECTION OEVELtENT                     0            0           0    16299824            0           0           0
S. OTHER EQUIP./FUINISNINCS                 0           0           0      39276Z            0           0    18529051
Sutotat                               8598153    59803453            0    17308908            0    24280638    51497071
C. VEHICLES                           445750    54833941            0      223341            0     1755709    43008655
0. TRAINIIG A SEMINARS
1. Foreign Tralning                  9719921    65972022            0     1712753      2443634     1107242           0
2. Local Traingrg                     Z39550    11079150            0      879514      1994700     3856200    57398616
---................. ------.- .- -.......... .......... __.._._...........t....... .......
Subtotal                              9959471    77051172-           0     2592267    4438334       4963442    57398616
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Foreign T.A.                            0            0           0           0      1382301    22159227      S05708
2. Locel T.A.                               0           0           9      637560      2668680     1123380     6866715
........................ .........................................._. ..... ...... .. _.
Subtotal                                     0           0           0      637560      4050981    23282607     7372423
F. SltDIES                                  0            0           0      122199     3679632       545307           0
Total INESTmENT COSTS                23296349   20794940Z            0    20O8275    12168947    55127702   113033659
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                          _
.....:.......
A. INCRENENTAL PROJECT COSTS
1. INCRE&.OPERATIONAL COSTS                0            0   124349389     2408078           0            0    49737894
2. IOCREN.NAINTENANCE COSTS                 0           0    65426512       54899            0           0    49601692
Sub-total                                   0            0   189775901     246Z917            0           0    99339586
......... .............. ... ... .... ..... ....................................... ......................................... ...................._
Total BASELIHE COSTS                 23Z96349   20794940Z   189775901    Z3347252    12168947    55127702   27317S245
Phiysica Contingencies               611628      7653673     9488795     1710791            0     1546998     8072652
Price Contingencies                 2425376    24997607    34796191      3062046      1361584     6313025    34121562
.  ...... .. .... ... . ......... ....... .... ..... ................... ....
Total PROJECT COSTS                  26333352   24060068Z   234060887    28120089    13530531    62987725   315367460
TaAes                               1781546    20842503    35189251      2224001      864581      4192Z93    33455599
Foreign Exchane                    22624577   187728653    39O96075      8229614     4011932    49059693   116036934
Values Scaled bt 1000.0. 4/3/1992  9:13 ---L-



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Summry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
usS
91/92       92/93       93/94       94/9        95/96       96/97       97/9        Total
1. INVESTIEIT COSTS
....................
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. NEW INFRASTRUCTURE                1800        3636        2423        1856         975           0           0       10690
2. FACILITIES RENA5ILITATION          741         494           0           0           0           0           0         123
Sih-Total                               2541        4129        2425        1856         975           0           0        11924
S. EWIPRENT
1. GENL. AGRICULTURAL EQJIP.          970        1282        1955        2519        2415        244         2527       14111
2. TRACTORS                           282         364         469         182          89         546         268        2200
3. FARN IMODULE EQUIPNENT              30        2276        2531         1588        1467          0           0        7893
4. TRCG  & DIFFUSION EUPIIEIT           0         392         381         961         340           0           0        2073
5. LASORTRY EWIPMENT                 1055        2987        3358        25Z0         859         452         788        12019
6. COMUTERS & ACCESSORIES            2007        2631        Z323         1265        979         629         576        10409
7. COLLECTION DEVELOPMEN1T            500        1014        1073        1110        1148        1187         541        6573
8. OTHER EQUIP./FIRNISHINGS          1648        1506        1839        1011         549         323         277        7153
Sti-Totsl                               6492       12453       13928       11154        7846        5581        4976       62432       r0
C. VEHICLES                             4046       14159        4325        1866        1668        4866        8631       39561
D. TRAINING & SEMINARS                                                                                                                 :tA
1. Foreign Training                  1168        3490        5805        7469        6173        3885        1714       29704                         c
2. Local Training                    4575        3625        3962        3783        3733        3874        4060       27612      O            O
Sub-Total                               5743        7116        9767       11252        9906        7759        5774       57316
E. TECKNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Foreign T.A.                       698        1313        1358        1367        1360        1339        1429        8864
2. Local T.A.                         470         525         556         620         641         663         686        4162
=xc3===3Basass=3w===-w3e=J3=====t==a5=gW=us5=gS3ws a 5Sc==t 3a_r=S= ma
Sub-Trtat                               1167        1839        1914        1987        2001        2002        2114       13025
F. STUDIES                               274         260         269         244         253         190         196        1685
...... ......... ........ ............... ,...... .......... _...................................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                 20264       39956       32625       28359       22649       20399       21692      185943
=nas=zx========x==33c==3  S=saeawa=a==a--=3= s =zzC==s=rxr ==z   C          =a
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. INCREMENTAL PROJECT COSTS
1. IHCREN.OPERATIONAL COStS          2958        4465        4865        9645       15379       16427       15429       69168
2. INCREN.NAINTEMANCE COSTS          2470        2233        2880        6056        9406       10916       10928       448U9
Sub-Total                               5428        6698        7745       15701       24785       27343       26357       114057
Total PROJECT COSTS                    25692       46654       40370       44061       47434       47742       48048      300000        
............... .............................. ...... .........................................................1000.0 4/3/19929:3
Vatues Scolod by 1000.0 4/3/1992 9:13                                                                                                                    _



HEXICO
AGRICULTUWAL TECHNOLOGT PROJECT
RexS
Su m ry Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                                    Foreign Exchange
91/92       92193       93/94       94/m        95/96       96/97       97/98       Total           X     Amoomt
------- ...=| ---t- =                         DCU'--ma-mmDC smmmcs an
1. INVESTINET COSTS
...................
A. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. liv INFRASPUCTUIE             4940374     9649237    6218719      4606595     2341106           0           0    27756031            29    7969626
2. FACILITIES RtEAIILITATION     2032754     1310159           0           0           0           0           0     3342914            21      699039
Subetotal                           6973125    10959396     6218719    4606595      2341106           0           0    31098945            28    8668665
B. EWIPWENT
1. GElL. AGRICUILTIAL EWIP.    2697787    3460129        5107790    6279693      5803440     5674609    5674609   34698056              70   24257717
2. TMCTORS                       80934      1012M       1259956      472243      225061     1328243      630298    5738408             70    4011m
3. FAIN MODULE EWIPIENT            87563     6328208     6806026    4129192      3690229           0           0    21041238            79   16620166
4. Tl       3)IFFUSIOH EUPNE           0     1039097      977849    2385487       816282           0           0    5218716             70    364450
S. LAi,.-;TORY EWIPNENT          2971478     8193119    8590250      6513908     2125038     1088280     1822212    31604285            77   24308934
6. CM1 "RS S ACESSORIES          s769945     7315458     6246220    3208861      2461265     1530329     1353804   27965882             86   24047479
7. COLL 'TIOU DEVELOPMENT        1372788     2692355     2754999    2754999      2754999     2754999     1214604    16299824            26    4285452
8. OTHER EUIP./FURNISNINGS       4642645     4095277    4851245      2603762     1357771      750129      620986    18921814            49    9268567
Srb-totat                          18352059   34136416    36894335   28428146    19234085    .3126589   11316593   161488223               68   110448538    =
C. VEHICLES                        1173208?   39500340    11629243    4851463       4193848    11936472    20435703   104279155            8s   88319551                   X
Do TRAINING S SENIVlUS                                                                                                                                        _                  v
1. Foreign Tralning              3525570    10189735    16369155    20394489    16301491     9921500    4233631   80955572             100   80955572
2. Local Training               137145    10548917    11151473    10295669    9823631        958737      9992159    75447730             0           0
subtotal                           17302714    207386s2    27540628    30690156    26125122    19780237    14225790   156403302            52   80955572
E. TECNNICLt ASSISTANICE
1. foreign T.A.                  21055U      3804190     3034190    3n326n       3591z78     3420428    3528WZ2   2404n236              o5   Z0474163
2. LocaL T.A.                    I418313     1533681     1570113    1693557      1693557     1693557     1693557   11296335              4      483525
subtotat                            352389      5367871     5404303     542622      5284835     5113985    5222449   35343571              59   20957688
F. STWIES                            825869      758318      75831       667238      667238      485078      485078     4647138            1S      718511
......--------  i  ........ .. ... o ...... *. .......... -.......... --.. . ... ... .-. ... -. .  --..........    .................. ... ... ... .....-
Total INESTlENT COSTS              509757   111460993    8845546    74669829   57846235    50442361    51685613   493260332                63   310068524
It. ECURRENT COSTS
C. IHCRENENTAL PRWECT COSTS
1. INCREM.OPERATIONAIL COSTS     853474    12764849    13431700   25437584    39036556    40316514    36654684   176495361               0           0
2. IICREM.MlINTEXANCE COSTS      730645      6405545     7993117   16048094    24048386    27061959   26217157   115083104              50   57132621
Sub-total                          16162319    19170395    21424817   41485677   63084942    6737473   62871841   Z91578464                20   57132621
Total BASELINE COSTS               7487276   130631387   109870362   116155506   120931176   117820834   114557454   784838797             47  367201145
Physical Contingencies           2683428     5571423     4110930    4155594      4332020     410901      4121241    29084537            48    14003864
Price Contingencies              131844      7025069     9954175    14954781    20358671    24636481    28829771   107077392            43   46482470
Total PROJECT COSTS                7887394   143227879   123935467   135265882   145621860   146567216   147508466   921000725             46  427687479
T"es                             6951389    15100633    11862808    13266787   15793732    17242104    18332821    98550274              0           0
Foreign Exchange                35845308    84902554    69141554    65624395    58027176    55254005    58892486   427687479           100  427687479          a
..les .caed...    00.0..................4/3/1992..............................................................................................13.............                CD
Vltues Seated by 1000.0 4/3411M   9:13p_



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECNOLOGY PROJECT
Stmiry Acconts Cost Su   ry
NexS                                USS                               X Total
.... ................ ..._. .   ...........................*    X    Foreign          ease
Local     Foreign       Total        Local  Foreign    Total       Exchwnge       Costs
,............................       .............. ............
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. INFRASTRUCTtURE
1. NEW INFRASTIJCTtRE           19786405     7969626    27756031         6329     2712     9041              29           4
2. FACILITIES REHABILITATION     2643874       699039     3342914         8S0      239      1089             21           0
St6-Total                          22430230      8668665    31098945        7179      91    10130               28           4
S. EWUIPMENT
1. CGEIL. AGRItLTURAL EQUIP.    10440339    24257717    34698056         3255     8047    11302              70           4
2. TRACTORS                      1726636      4011772     5738408         538      1331     1869             70           1
3. FAN NDULE ECUIPIENT           4421072    16620166    21041238         1371     5483      6854             79           3
4. TRG. * DIFFUSION EQUWPENT     1570266      3648450     5218716         490      1210     1700             70           1
S. LABRTORY EQUIPMENT            7295351    24308934    31604285         2265     8030    10295              77           4
6. COMPUTERS & ACCESSORIES       3918403    24047479    27965802         1278      7831     9109             86           4
7. COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT       12014371      4285452    16299824        3907      1403     5309             26           2
8. OTHER EQUIP./FtIRHISHINGS     9653247      9268567    18921814        3092     3071      6163             49           2
....... ...........  .  ...  ....................  -- ------------     ---------------
Sfb-Total                          51039685   110448538   161488223        16196    36406    52602              68          21                   r
C. VEHICLES                        15959604    88319551   104279155         5141    28827   33967               85          13
D. TRAINING & SEMINARS
1. Foreign Training                    0    80955572    809S5572            0    26370    26370             100          10
2. Locsl Training               75447730            0    75447730       24576        0    24576               0          10
Sth-Total                          75447730    80955572   156403302        24576    26370    50946              52          20
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Foreign T.A.                  3573073    20474163    24047236         1175     6658     7833              85           3
2. Local T.A.                   10812810       483525    11296335        3523      157    3680                4           1
Sub-Total                          14385883    20957688    35343571         4698     6815    11513              59           5
F. STUDIES                          3928627       718511     4647138        1280      234      1514             15           1
........ ....................... .... ...... ... .... ........    ............... ...... .... ......  . .   ........ ............... . 
Total INVESTMENT COSTa            183191809   310068524   493260332        5°068   101603   160671              63          63
............... ................... ...................    .................................   ....... ..... ........ ................. 
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. INCREMENTAL PROJECT COSTS
1. INCREM.OPERATIONAL COSTS    176495361            0   176495361       57490        0    57490               0          22
2. INCREM.NAIINTENAIICE COSTS   5m0483    57132621   115083104          18752    18734    37486              50          15
................ ....... .......... ........ ................ ..............................   ....... ...................
SubTotal                          234445844    57132621   291578464        76242    18734    94977              20          37
Total BASELINE COSTS              417637652   367201145   704538797       135311   120337   255648              47         100
Physical Contingencies          15080673    14003864    29084537         4912    4562      9474              48           4
Price Contingencies             60594922    46482470   1070M92          20465    14413    34879              41          14
.- ;;...... ............. ... .... ...    .... . .............. .. .... ...   ... .... .. .. ......... ...........  1
Totsl PROJECTS COSTS              493313247   427687479   921000725       160688   139312   300000              46         117
V      Sa_ ...   100 ...4/3/19_2  9:14                                                           Xi
Values Ustaed by 1000.0 -   4/3/1992  9:14                                                                                                                 vt 



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Projects Cocponents by Tear                                                                -
Totals Including Contihgencles
Mex$
91/92       92/93       93/94       94/95      95/96        96/97      97/98       Total
A. RESEARCH
1. ALL CENIDs                      2984180     5586780    6039236      5404028    2417548    2982079       919501    26333352
2. ALL CIFAPs                     19058208    59206348   40572072   37275320    26307203    23901963   34279567  240600682
3. RESEARCH INCR.REC.COSTS         4764787    8502608    10084443   3277347    57785789   61972394    581M19   234060887
Sub-Total                            26807176   73295735    56695751    75452695    06510540    88856436   93376588  500994921
B. INST.DEVELOPPENT/RESEARCH
1. LIBRARY SYSTEMS                3347404     4142745     4179439     4321539     4468472    4843202    2817288   28120089
2. RESEARCH MAUNGEMENT             1365250     2310569    2854019    2847072       1790634     1123557    1239429    13530531
3. OTHER RESEARCH SUPPORT          8442071    11962996    12182998    8476102    7605930       7023226    7294402   62987725
Sub-Total                            13154725    18416310    19216456   S5644714   13865036    12989985    11351119  104638345
C. EXTENSION                                                                                                                                  171
1. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER           38912047   51515833    48023260    44168473   45246292    44720795   42780760  315367460
...................................... ........................................................................  ,  --- 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 78813948   143227879  123935467   135265882   145621868   146567216  147508466  921000725
...     ................. ................... ....................... ... ..............
Values ScaLed by 1000.0 4/3/1992 9:14
mlX



MEXICO
AGRIOJLTUIRAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Neax
Project Caq2nts by Year
Base Costs                                                    Totat
...... .........._._.............................                   ......................
91192       92/93        93/94       94/9        95/96        96/97       97/98     Nea          USs
A. IRESARCN
1. ALL CENIls                       283930      5132439      5390567     4687293      2079563     2439165       727692    23296349        7588
2. ALL CiFAP                       18019311    53672749    35892813    32195654    22151038    19443660    26574176   207949402           6736
3. RESEARCN INC1.1EC.COSTS          4462035      7700543     8832844    27761884    47340042    49100433    44578116   189775901          61816
.............................................................................................................
Sub-total                            25320979    66505731    50116225    6444830    71570643    70983259    71879984   421021651           137141
*. INIST.DEVEUOPMIENT/IESEANIIHx
1. LlIRANY SYSTENS                  309769      3660418      3568257     3568257      3568257     3744782     2139612    23347252         7605
2. RESEARCH  NAHASENIET             1342429     2197240      2624792     2532305      1540294      934698       997189    12168947        3964
3. OTHER RESEARCII WPPOiT           797030    11037779    10877397       7346319      6392495    S72933       5750749    55127702        1795?
................. ............................ *-***.................. -@ ........-. ... ............................................_._ 
Sutotal                              12437127    16895437    17070446    13446880    11501047    10405413        887549    90643900         29526
C. EltTE1151IION
1. TECHNOLOGT TRIASFER             37113970    47230220    42083691    38063795    37859486    36432162    33789921   273173245          88982
Total  SEELINE COSTS                 74872076   130631387   109870362   116155506   120931176   117820834   114557454   78483797           255648
Phkical Contingecies               268428      5571423      4110930     4155594      4332020     4109901      4121241    29084537         9474
Price Contingencies                1318444     7025069      9954175    14954781    20358671    24636481    28829771   1070M92           34879
............ ...................................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                  78873948   143227879   123935467   135265882   145621868   146567216   147508466   921000725         300000
_s--stamrnxa-2------St ------a .. c-X"U=st   ,,a= w -Xz   asWt- ........               nnma                su=n-* =-
Teaxes                             6951389    15100633    11862808    13266787    15793732    17242104    18332821    98550274          32101
Foreign Exchae                    35845308    84902554    69141554    65624395   5027176    55254005    58892486   427687479          139312
,.............................................................................................................................................
Values Saled by 1000.0 4/3/1m   9:14
j~E



- 63 -                            Annex Ill
Page I of 1
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Bank                          Disbursed     Cumulative    Disbursement
Fiscal    Quarter             During
Year      Ending              Quarter       Amount        % of Total      Balance
1992     June 92W                7.0           7.0             4.7         143.0
1993     September 92            3.7          10.7             7.1         139.3
December 92            3.6           14.3            9.5         135.7
March 93               3.9          18.2            12.1         131.8
June 93                6.0          24.2            16.1         125.8
1994     September 93            6.0          30.1            20.1         119.9
December 93            6.0          36.1            24.1         113.9
March 94               6.0          42.1            28.1         107.9
June 94                7.4          49.5            33.0         100.5
1995     September 94            7.4          56.9            37.9         93.1
December 94            7.4          64.2            42.8          85.8
March 95               7.4          71.6            47.8          78.4
June 95                6.7           78.4           52.3          71.6
1996     September 95            6.7          85.1            56.7         64.9
December 95            6.7          91.9            61.2          58.1
March 96               6.7          98.6            65.7         51.4
June 96                4.8          103.4           68.9          46.6
1997     September 96            4.8          108.2           72.1         41.8
December 96            4.8          113.0           75.3          37.0
March 97               4.8          117.8           78.5          32.2
June 97                4.2          122.0           81.3          28.0
1998     September 97            4.2          126.2           84.2          23.8
December 97            4.2          130.5           87.0          19.5
March 98               4.2          134.7           89.8          15.3
June 98                4.5          139.2           92.8          10.8
1999      September 98           4.5          143.7           95.8           6.3
December 98            6.3          150.0          100.0           0.0
a/ Includes initial deposit of US$7 rnillion in the Special Account.
NOTE: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



-64.                                AMnly
Page 1 of 5
MEX
STAF A*pPA,ASAL REPOR
AGRIC"=tRAL 'rECHNOLQOY pROlCT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT INDICATORS
1.           The government has agreed to monitor and evaluate progress of this Annex project
implementation using the Estimated Implementation Indicators contained in Table 1. These indicators
would be reviewed during project implementation, and changes would be made in them as necessary
during project implementation.
2.           The government fiurther has fiurher agreed to evaluate project impact using the Impact
Indicators contained in Table 2 to this Annex. Tbis information would be obtained from the Impact
Study (see para 3.32 (c) of the Staff Appraisal Report) and from other sources of information. These
indicators would be reviewed during project implementation, and changes would be made in them as
necessary during project implementation.



-65-Annex IV
Page 2 of 5
Project Estimated Inlemneaion indiators
Table 1. ESTIMATED IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
RESEARCH
Comnpoont investmen           USS 000
North CEFAP                                     1,500    5,066    4,075     2,915    2,600    1,706    3,020  20,883
Center CIFAPa                                   2,523    7,907    5,791     4,S41    3,431    2,879     4,978  32,049
Soth CJFAP                                      2,181    6,313    3,349    4,686   2,538   3,201       3,167  25,436
Civil worb                                        439    3,263    1,496       824      213       0         0   6,235
North CIPAPs
Modules stared               Numbers
Technology diffiusion                                        6        6         9                                  21
Water use                                                    4        4         9                                  17
Porasge                                                      I        1         4                                   6
Training                                                     1        2         2                                   5
Aiml reproduction                                            I        1         2                                   4
Animal nutrition                                             I        1         2                                   4
Livestock mnagcmen                                           I        1         2                                   4
maize                                                                           2                                   2
BDm                                                                   I                                             I
Vegetables
Totl number of modube sated                                iS       17        32                                 64
Laborstorie upgrded          Numben
Crops                                                       5       16        IS                                 36
livestock                                                            1                                            1
Fortry                                                               2         2                                  4
Center CIFAPs
Modules stared               Numbers
Technology diffusion                                         S       12         7                                  24
Waer us                                                      7        4         4                                  15
Trining                                                      2        3         4                                   9
Anim  nurition                                                        4         3                                   7
Liveock mnagement                                                     3         3                                   6
Maize                                                        1        3         1                                   S
Animal reproduction                                                   2         3                                   5
Foage                                                        2        3                                             s
Bens                                                         1        3                                             4
Rainfed wheat                                                I        I         1                                   3
Dadey                                                                 I                                             I
Land preparion                                                        I                                             I
Vegetable                                                    I                                                      I
Total number of module  aied                              20       40        26                                  86
Labotie uprded               Numbers
Crops                                                       9       18        12                                 39
LJvestock                                                            1         4                                  S
Foratry                                                              5         3                                  8



- 66 -                                         Anntl   IV
Page 3 of S
gab _m 1                   9 19 19     9 1m96 199                   7 mamLO
South CIFAP
Modules stad                Number
Technology diffusion                                       12        S         7                                 24
Water ue                                                   10        4         8                                 22
Forg                                                        4                  9                                 13
TvaIning                                                    5        1         3                                  9
Animal nutritioa                                            2        1         4                                  7
Livestock manaemet                                          I        1         4                                  6
Maize                                                       3        1         1
Animl reproducdon                                           1                  4                                  5
Lad prepation                                               1                  2                                  3
Rkc                                                         1                  2                                  3
Bum                                                         I                  1                                  2
Barey
Vegetable
Rainfed wheat
Tota number of modules dsatd                             41       13        45                                 99
Laboatories upgaded         Numbers
Crops                                                      5       13        7                                  25
Livesock                                                   2        2        7                                  11
Foretr                                                     2        7        3                                  12
Staff trained                Number
PhD and MSc taning, in Mexico and abrad
Crops (57 pece  of totl
Vegetables                                        1        3        4        5        4        3        1      21
Tenle4rte Frits                                   1        3        4        5        4        3         1      21
Maize                                             1        3        4        5        4        2        1       20
Tropical Frut                                     1        2        3        4        3        2         1      16
Soil Conevation                                   1        2        3        4        3        2        1       16
Bam                                               1        2        3        4        3        2        1       16
BeholIogy                                                  1        2        2        2        1        1        9
Sed Technology                                             I        1        2        1        1                 6
wheat                                                      I        I         I       I        I                 S
Badey                                                      I        I        I        I        I                S
Rice                                                       I        I         I       1                          4
Oileeds                                                    I        I        1                                  3
Gcetim Reources
Lvetock (3S percent of total)
Meat                                              1        4        6        8        6        4        2       31
Milk                                              1        4        6        7        6        3        2      29
Other ock                                         1        3        S        6        5        3        2       25
Porage"
Forsy (8 percent of total)                        1        3        4         5       4        2         1      20
Staff in-ervice trng         Numbers
North CIFAPs (20percentoftotal)                            27       90        60      66       49        51      53
396
CerterCWAPJU(42percentoftotal)                            102      143       205      IIS     101        86      79
831
South CIFAPs (38 percent of total                         127      202       111      85       77        71      90
763
TOWal                                           256      435      376      266      227      208      222   1,990
Resarch cost-ding X of total INIFAP budget
Fodenlgovenmnt                                   9SX      95%      95*       90%     90X      90S6      85%      NA
INIFAP budget Lalion (includes
arcb  ad instional development)
Incremental prqoect budget    Curne  USS million  $13.7    $29.0   $25.0    $30.0   $33.0   $33.0    $33.6  $197.3
Cunulative Incremedcl budget Curent USS million  $13.7    $42.7   $67.7    $97.7  $130.7  $163.7   $197.3      NA



-67 -                                           Annex IV
Page 4 of 5
MAs                I9      1223    I9           1995     16    1997    1998   Total
EXIENSION
Rurl development districts
added to priect            disricts              so        is       10                                           75
Extension saff tsn          courws                235      294      348       343      357     372       390   2,339
Farmen training             coures                553      719      529       838      839     834       844   5,456
Foeld demonstrtion          inits                 305      397      458       4S8      458     458       458   2,992
Trpgetcomponwntbudget       curremnt USS million   $12.7    $17.0   $17.0    $15.0   $15.0   $14.0    $12.0  $102.7
Cuwulative cowponnt budget  cumnt USS million   $12.7    $29.7   $46.7    $61.7   $76.7   $90.7   $102.7          NA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Stafftained in service       mumber                 49       51       52        54       56       58        60     380
PhD and Mac training,
in Mxico and broad                                   1        2        3         3       3        2         1      15
Libray collection cquisions
development                 in US$ million        $0.4     $0.9     $0.9      $0.9    $0.9    $0.9       $0.3    $5.2
Technical assistance for the rsarch
and inuitutional development components
Libry infwormdion maament Consulta  mondh           I        I        I         I        I        I        1        7
Computng facilities         Consultant months       3        3        3         3        3       3         3       21
Management informat:on      Consultad mnths         6        3        3         3        3       3         3       24
Resource mobilization       Consulant mondhs       12       12       12                                            36
Other short-erm consultancies  Consitantmowdhs     12       12       12        12       12       12       12       84
Other long-term conultancies   Consultant months   54       54       54        54       54      54        54      378
The north includes the mates of Baja California Norte, Baja Califoftia Sur, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo Leon, Sinaioa, Sonora
and the regions of the Comrc Lgunerc and North Tamulipas; the center include. the states of Aguuecaientes, Colima, the Federal
District, Guanfjusto, IEdalgo, Ialiaco, Mexico, Michoacan, Nayarit, Paeble, Queetar, San Liw Potosi, Tlxalc, and Zacateca; the
South includes the satec of Campeche, Cbiapas, Guermo, Morelo, Osc, Quinta  Roo, Tabaeco, Veracnrz, and Yucatan, and the
region of Sauth Tamulipas. A module is a sndd unit of stff, equipmunt, and mtial dfined to allocate cost to research on a secific
topic. Target for academic trining do not include scholahips financed by nonproJect coure.



- 68 -                                           Annex ly
Page 5 of 5
Project Estimated Implementation Indicators and Impact Indicators
Table 2. PROJECT IMPACT INDICATORS /1
CROPS (INCLUDING FORAGES)
Number of oultivae saed   of prionty crop.
Expernena yieds of piority crops /1
Farm yieds of priority crops
Crod area of prority crop.
Production cods per unit of output of prority crops
LIVUrOC
Experimental reproduction yields in cattle and small uminas /I
Pturtion rates
Youw Mock morality
Fam repoduction yields in cattle sad   a rumn
Partuition ret
Yoaun  tck mortality
Milk and meat production
Expmntal yields /I
Farm yieldc
Herd conposition
Producton coes per unit of output
FORESMY
Number of material remed in priority species
Expermet yields in prioity species /1
Farm yields in priority species
Production aras In priority species
Prduction cogt per unit of output in priority scies
/1  lbe four experimntl indicators will be meaured on resrch dations; the others will be measured in a long-term study of the impact
of sicultual rerch and extension (the 'impact study') and with other available data.



- 69 -                             Annex V
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
AGRlCULTURAL TE3CHNOLOGY PROJECT
Prje,t LUni
1.           Mada.  The project unit will manage all operational aspects of the project in
accordance with procedures agreed upon between the Bank and the Government of Mexico. Those
aspects include review of documents for procurement of goods and services, coordination of audit of
project accounts, hiring of project consultants, documentation of the decisions of the Collaborative
Research Grants Committee (Annex VI), reporting to the World Bank through SARH and NAFIN,
preparing information for the annual and midterm reviews, and other related responsibilities as may
become necessary. The project unit manager will be the secretary of the Collaborative Research
Committee, but will not participate in its deliberations. The project unit will not have responsibility for
scientific or technical aspects of the operation, which remain the responsibility of the executing agencies.
The limited mandate of the project unit is justified because the executing agencies have well-established
procedures and trained staff to manage scientific and technical aspects. Hence, there is no need for the
project unit to be involved in them. However, because the Bank loan has different procedures in
procurement, audit, consultant contracting, and reporting to the Bank, a coordinating unit is necessary.
2.           Composition. The project unit will have a manager, a procurement specialist, and support
staff. The project unit manager will have qualifications and conditions of employment acceptable to the
Government of Mexico and to the Bank. Changes in the manager during project implementation will be
acceptable to the Bank.
3.             rfing Arrangeme. The project unit manager will report to the Director General
of INIFAP and the DGESAF/SARH on matters affecting project components in their respective areas of
responsibility. Other staff of the project unit will report to its manager.
4.           Costs and financing. Reasonable costs incurred by the project unit are eligible for
reimbursement from the loan under the institutional development component.



-70-                                Annex YL
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TErCHNOLOGY PROEC
Consultangies and Collaborative Research
1.           The institutional development component wil support consultancies and collaborative
research. The two activities supported will establish closer links between INIFAP and other scientific
institutions: consultancies will allow work on unforeseen problems arising during project implementation
or on others which permit short-term solutions; longer-term collaborative research, allocated on a
competitive basis, will focus on agreed activities which might not be undertaken within INIFAP's
program, but which complement it.
A. Consutancies
2.           Consultancies would be available for such things as teaching laboratory techniques,
software development, and management assistance. They would not usually be for research and hence
would not require scientific review of a research proposal. Approximately US$2 million will be available
in the proposed project for consultancies.
B. Collaborative Reearch
3.           Collaborative grants will fund small research tasks with the guidance of INIFAP, thereby
assisting to forge links between INIFAP and other research entities. Such work is designed to elicit
participation of Mexican universities and other scientific bodies on topics which are desirable to the long-
term plan of INIFAP, but on which INIFAP lacks expertise. Approximately US$6.5 million will be
available in the proposed project for collaborative research.
4.           A Grants Committee of scientists and others will award grants on a competitive basis,
based on scientific review of proposals by qualified individuals. The Committee will be chaired by the
Director of INIFAP and will include the Director General of the Directorate General for Agricultural and
Forestry Sectoral Studies and at least one representative each of the Colegio de Postgraduados, of SARH,
of CONACYT, of SPP, and of the national agricultural research community. The manager of the project
unit will be the Committee's secretary, who will maintain a written record of all Committee deliberations
and decisions, but will not otherwise participate in those deliberations.
5.           The project unit manager will announce the existence of the grants facility, and of specific
topics on which proposals are invited, in Mexican scientific and lay publications. Grant proposals will
be sent to the project unit manager who will catalog and distribute them to Committee members. The
Committee will meet to discuss proposals at regular intervals. While the Committee wIll send proposals
to anonymous external reviewers in Mexico or elsewhere, it is expected that most reviews will be done
by INIFAP staff. The written record of Committee meetings wIll be made available to Bank supervision
missions.



- 71 -                              Ann&&xVI
Page 2 of 2
6.           The Government has agreed that project selection and grant funding allocation will use
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These procedures will be those of the Program of Support for
Science in Mexico (PACIME), as described in PACIME's Rules of Operation. In addition to the
PACIME Rules of Operation, the Government agreed at negotiations to the following specific rules of
operation for these collaborative research grants:
a.    The grants will be available to scientists in the private sector, universities, and other
entities in Mexico. No grant recipient will be permitted to receive more than one grant
per year or more than two in the life of the facility.
b.    The size of the grants research facility will be approximately four percent of the loan
amount. No single grant will be larger than five percent of the total facility, and none
is anticipated to be smaller than US$5,000.
c.    Grants will not pay overhead to institutions with which grant recipients are affiliated.
Grants will not pay salaries to principal investigators, but can pay them, in certain cases,
for additional staff necessary for the project. Grants will not fund purchase of vehicles,
civil works, or, in most cases, foreign travel.
d.    Grant recipients will provide a completed data set to CONACYT, SARH, and INIFAP
at project completion. Rights of first publication will be given preferentially to Mexican
journals. Once these conditions have been met to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Grants Committee, grant recipients may publish as they choose.
e.    Reasonable costs of external reviews of proposals will be eligible for reimbursement from
the loan.
f.    Grant recipients and consultants will sign INEFAP personal service contracts with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Reimbursement of eligible expenses will be from the
Special Account.



- 72 -                               Annex VIl
Page I of 4
MEXICQ
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PR(JCICT
Selection of Extension Districts
1.           Eligible districts for the project were chosen in general accord with the objectives of the
government's strategy for technical assistance and with the diagnosis of extension in the Bank Agricultural
Technology Sector Report (9297-ME). Specific selection criteria were simiar to those of the current
PROCATI project, partially supported by Bank loan 2859-ME as follows.
2.           Nonduplication of private extension. As part of the effort to reduce the public sector,
the government is insisting on privatization of some extension services. To assist in this effort, a Bank-
supported study of private extension was done in 16 rural development districts, of which 10 are in
PROCATI and the other 6 are proposed for the new operation. The study showed private agricultural
extension to be from 15 to 40 percent of the volume of extension services in those districts. Hence, to
avoid duplication of private by public extension, eligible districts were selected in which private extension
was less active and had less potential.
3.           Rainfed agricultural pttial. Good potential exists for transfer of existing technology
via intensified extension in more productive areas. Such areas typically have irrigation or higher rainfall.
Hence, eligible districts will have annual rainfall greater than 700 mm or adequate irrigation
infrastructure. This criterion eliminates many of the arid and semi-arid districts of the country, in which
agricultural potential is so low that short-run technology transfer efforts will not be productive. More
emphasis is put on rainfed districts than on irrigated to avoid duplication of private sector activities as
well as those of the National Water Commission (CNA).
4.           Consistency with reorientation of research. The research component of the operation
supports a reorientation of effort to rainfed and tropical areas. To maintain close ties between technology
generation through research and technology validation and transfer through a researmh and extension
partnership, eligible districts have production patterns consistent with the focus of INIFAP.
5.           Severity of soil erosion.  The severity of soil erosion varies greatly in the rural
development districts of Mexico. In the choice of some of the new extension districts, priority was given
to those having severe erosion. Four pilot districts were chosen from the 25 of PROCATI, and 8
additional units were chosen from among the 75 planned. Annex VIII describes the soil conservation plan
in more detail.
6.           Homogeneous producer groups. Eligible districts will generally have more homogeneous
producer groups, which will often be located in compact areas. More homogeneous and contiguous
groups are reached by extension at lower cost per producer and in a shorter period. In addition, smaller
numbers of extension recommendations for important agricultural products would be more appropriate
than in more heterogeneous or dispersed sites. Homogeneous groups are also more easily constituted to
become the target of the PROCATI group extension methodology.



- 73 -                                Annex VJl
Page 2 of 4
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Inliementation Plan for Rural Development Districts
in Extension Component
Rural
Development
District
Continuing from PROCATI Project
Acufila                                   Coahuila
Aguascalientes                            Aguascalientes
Ahuacatlan                                Nayarit
Ameca                                     Jalisco
Atlacomulco                               Mexico
Cajeme                                    Sonora
Celaya                                    Guanajuato
Chilpancingo                              Guerrero
Comundu                                   Baja California
Cuauhtemoc                                Chihuahua
Guadaloupe Victoria                       Durango
Huamantla                                 Tlaxcala
Ja3pa                                     Zacatecas
Lerdo                                     Lagunera
Libres                                    Puebla
Los Mochis                                Sinaloa
Matehuala                                 San Luis Potosi
Montemorelos                              Nuevo Le6n
Morelia                                   Michoacan
Navajoa                                   Sonora
Queretaro                                 Queretaro
Rio Colorado                              Baja California
Sierra de Juirez                          Oaxaca
Tulancingo                                Hidalgo
Zacatepec-Galeana                         Morelos



- 74 -                               Annex VII
Page 3 of 4
MEXICQ
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Implementation Plan fQr Rural Development Districts
in Extension Component
Additional
Rural
Development
Districts                                     State
Beginning in 1992
Altamirano                               Guerrero
Atpoyac                                  Guerrero
Comitan                                  Chiapas
Pachuca                                  Hidalgo
Tonall                                   Chiapas
Valles Centrales                         Oaxaca
Eligible in 1992 and thereafter
Apatzingan                               Michoacan
Apodaca                                  Nuevo Leon
Coahuila                                 Lagunera
Colima                                   Colima
Delicias                                 Chihuahua
Emiliano Zapata                          T2basco
Escarcega                                Campeche
Felipe C. Puerto                         Quintana Roo
Fresnillo                                Zacatecas
Guasave                                  Sinaloa
Hermosillo                               Sonora
Isla de Matamoros                        Puebla
Martinez de la Torre                     Veracruz
San Fernando                             Tamaulipas
San Luis de la Paz                       Guanajuato
San Luis Potosi                          San Luis Potosf
Ticul                                    Yucatdn
Tomatlin                                 Jalisco
Uruapan                                  Michoacan
Zumpoango                                Mexico



-75 -                                Annex vH
Page 4 of 4
MEXQCQ
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Implementation Plan for Rural Development Districts
in Extension Component
Additional
Rural
Development
Districts                                     Sa
Anahuac                                ' Nuevo Le6n
Ciudad Alemrn                            Veracruz
Ciudad Fernandez                         San Luis Potosf
Ciudad Guzmgn                            Jalisco
Ciudad Valles                            San Luis Potosf
CortAzar                                 Guanajuato
Costa                                    Oaxaca
Culiacan                                 Sinaloa
Dlaz Ordaz                               Tamaulipas
Durango                                  Durango
Durango-Laguna                           Lagunera
Jaltipan                                 Veracruz
La Barca                                 Jalisco
La Piedad                                Michoacan
Mixiquiahuala                            Hidalgo
Rio Florido                              Chihuahua
Rio Grande                               Zacatecas
Tehuacan                                 Puebla
Teziutlgn                                Puebla
Tizimfn                                   Yucatan
Tlaxcala                                 Tlaxcala
Toluca                                   Mexico
Tuxtla Gutierrez                         Chiapas
Zamora                                   Michoacan



- 76 -                                Annex Vill
Page 1 of 2
MEXICQ
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Soil and Water Conservation
1.            Soil erosion reduces crop yields significantly and raises fertilizer costs on a large part of
the national agricultural area. While much is known about methods to reduce erosion, there remain
significant scientific, practical, and institutional problems to solve. The project will support research,
extension, and institutional development efforts to solve those problems.
A. Research
2.            Research will focus on the dry tropics, the humid tropics, and the highlands with
emphasis on maize, beans, wheat, oilseeds, and pastures, which appear to be the most affected. Steps
in the research sequence will be:
a.     characterizing experimental sites by erosion risk and degree, to define priorities;
b.    testing promising technologies at those sites.  Those technologies include organic
manuring (including crop residue management and green manures), plowing systems
(with emphasis on reduced tillage), furrow types, crop rotations, vegetative barriers,
pasture management, physical barriers, and other agronomic practices;
C.     studies of impact of erosion and nutrient losses on productivity; and
d.     cost-benefit analyses of means to reduce erosion, nutrient loss, and productivity losses.
3.            Research investments in the operation will include simple laboratories for soil analysis,
topographic and survey gear, and training for scientists and technicians in experimental design and related
issues.
B. Extension
4.            Expended soil and water conservation extension activities wil; be supported in four pilot
rural development districts chosen from the 25 districts of PROCATL. Selection criteria were:
a.     more than 20 percent of the agricultural area is susceptible to soil erosion;
b.     economically and technically viable soil and water conservation practices are available;
c.,    institutional capacity exists, in the form of producers' organizations and extension staff;
d.     The district is representative of a larger agroclimate, so that conclusions drawn from it
can be extrapolated;



-77 -                                Annex VI
Page 2 of 2
e.     within the districts meeting the above criteria, preference would be given to those with
more potential beneficiaries;
f.     Three groups of techniques (physical works, soil management, and cropping practices)
were selected initially in the pilot areas; and
g.    A general planning workshop was held before project appraisal, followed by detailed
preparation in the four districts and verification of those plans in the central offices of
SARH. Field checking of the plans was done by a Bank pre-appraisal mission. Wider
extension of soil and water conservation techniques would be done in later project years,
using the experience of the four pilot districts.
5.            Additional districts have been provisionally agreed upon by the Bank and the Government.
Soil conservation activities will be extended into those districts once experience from the initial four has
been analyzed. Details of the soil conservation activities to be supported in these districts are ih Working
Paper 4.
6.            This component will also assist the reconstitution of the Directorate of Soil and Water
Conservation (DCSA). Activities of the reconstituted body will be:
a.     maintenance of central data bank on soil erosion, and soil and water conservation in
Mexico;
b.    studies of these subjects as needed to support this and future investments;
C.    specialized technical assistance to extension staff;
d.    training of extension staff, researchers, and producers; and
e.    investments in computing and communications equipment, office furniture and other
equipment.



^ 78 -                              A        IX
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Management and Scientific Information Systems
A. Backround
1.           Limitations in INIFAP's information and communications system have damaged the
quantity, quality, and timeliness of its research, and its ability to develop and diffuse scientific results.
Deficiencies in access to information have also limited its capacity to use results from other scientific
institutions. Despite the facts that facilities, staff and procedures exist in those areas, they need to be
upgraded through new investments, including training.
2.           More specifically, inadequate physical infrastructure and training for information and
communications reduces INIFAP efficiency in these areas:
a.    Planning, executing, and evaluating research and technology transfer based upon a timely
appraisal of its own activities;
b.    Monitoring costs and resource allocation to verify that they are consistent with priorities;
C.    Analyzing research productivity;
d.    Changing resource allocations in response to scientific results and to feedback from
scientists and others;
e.    Informing staff about its activities and procedures;
f.    Analyzing experimental results in a timely, accurate, and reproducible fashion;
g.    Producing and diffusing scientific and technical information at the central, regional, state
and experimental levels to meet the needs of government planners, scientists, the
extension service, and agricultural producers; and
h.    Using scientific and technical information from extemal sources.
3.           Investments in computing, communications, and training are required to remedy these
problems. Ihe users and beneficiaries of these systems would be INIFAP staff and management, and
other scientists in Mexico. A comprehensive design of those investments would be done through technical
assistance to INIFAP in the proposed operation. The following spells out two related consultancies-one
to design and begin implementation of a management information system (MIS), and the other to assist
in design and implementation of an integrated library system (ILS). Terms of reference for a consultancy
to design the computing systems of INIFAP, ensuring consistency among the objectives of management
and information exchange, were developed at negotiations.



- 79 -                              Annex IS
Page 2 of 4
B. Technical Assistance for a
Mnagement Infonation System
4.           Qbiectivea. The technical assistance would develop a unified management information
system to capture and transmit information in a timely and efficient manner throughout INIFAP. Specific
goals of the technical assistance, to be executed by two consultants, are to:
a.    Describe and analyze critically the existing management information system of INIFAP
at the national, regional, state, and station/laboratory levels;
b.    Identify management and staff information requirements at those levels;
c.    Design a unified management information system based on the diagnosis of the existing
system and needs to improve it. The system would permit recording and evaluation of
experimental activities, their characteristics, costs, and results, as well as characteristics
of the staff managing them. Using the system, INIFAP management at all levels would
be able to monitor resource use and research results, and to analyze them in a concise
and timely manner;
d.    Design a management information communications network linking the different levels
of INIFAP, and allowing linkages with external scientific and technical centers,
permitting the rapid transmission of data through the system among the various levels of
INEFAP;
e.    Recommend the computing equipment and software necessary to operate the system,
including cost estimates for all components;
f.    Recommend necessary staff changes to operate and maintain the system; and
g.    Recommend training programs for INIFAP staff to operate and maintain the system.
5.           Work lIan. The consultants will work under the general supervision of the project unit.
They will be based at INIFAP headquarters in Mexico City with travel to various INIFAP sites and to
other institutions as necessary, and would work closdy with the consultants in computing and the
integrated library system. Within two weeks of beginning their work, the consultants will have presented
a detailed work plan to INIFAP management and to the World Bank for approval. Within four weeks
of approval of the work plan, the principal consultant will have presented a basic design of the system;
at that time, the second consultant will have presented a working model of the system and draft
recommendations for system hardware and software. It is expected that the consultants would work a total
of approximately 6 months in the first project year, and that three additional months of consultancies
would be available in the remaining project years, on terms to be defmed by INIlFAP's management.



- 80 -                              Annex IX
Page 3 of 4
6.           Qualifications. There will be two consultants. The principal consultant will be an expert
in agricultural research management, preferably with a PhD or other advanced degree in a related area
and with appropriate experience. The second consultant will be an expert in computer systems, with
experience in both micro and mainframe computing systems. Both consultants will be able to speak and
write Spanish.
7.           C=. It is expected that the consultancies would total 24 staff-months and would cost
about US$320,000 including physical and price contingencies. It is expected that nine months of
consultancy would be used in the first two years of project implementation, and the remaining 15 months
in the following years would be available to develop and maintain the system. All costs would be eligible
for reimbursement under the institutional development component of the loan.
8.           Timing. The Government has agreed to these terms of reference as a basis for the
consultants' work and would further agree to establish the MIS no later than January 1, 1993.
C. Technical Assistance for an
Integrated Library System
9.           Obiectives. The technical assistance would seek to develop an ILS. It would provide for
collection access, management and control in the INIFAP network, including the capacity at some point
in the future to link to collections via satellite communication networks. This technical assistance would
extend the recommendations of the National Agricultural Library (USDA), made in two previous
nmissions.
10.          The general objectives of the ILS would be to:
a.    Provide access to scientific information more rapidly to INIFAP staff;
b.    Reduce duplication of information sources via electronic linkages among different sites;
and
c.    Improve information flows among widely separated INIFAP sites.
11.          Specific goals of the ILS technical assistance would be to:
a.    Identify scientific information requirements at all INIFAP sites;
b.    Develop a plan to procure and install the ILS including a cost analysis, functional
requirements, bidding documents, and initial testing;
c.    Recommend the computing equipment and software to operate the system;
d.    Assist in training INIFAP staff in the use and maintenance of the system; and
e.    Recommend the staffing to operate and maintain the system.



- 81 -                             Annex IX
Page 4 of 4
12.          Qualification. The consultant will have expert knowledge of automated library systems
in a scientific research library environment. The consultant will possess an advanced degree, appropriate
experience, and the ability to speak and write Spanish. Specific knowledge required for the consultancy
include:
a.    Expert knowledge of bibliographic database system design and development. Experience
in developing formats, documentation and quality control procedures for bibliographic
databases;
b.    Expert knowledge of integrated library systems available from the vendor community;
c.    Knowledge of electronic data processing concepts, principles, and practices applicable to
the full range of automated library operations;
d.    Knowledge of telecommunications procedures and policies as applied to automatic data
processing systems;
e.    Knowledge of information storage and retrieval formats and systems;
t.    Knowledge of policies and procedures of large- and medium-scale research libraries; and
g.    Experience in implementing large-scale library automation systems.
13.          Work plan. The consultants will work under the general supervision of the Information
and Diffusion Directorate of INIFAP. The consultant will be based at INIFAP headquarters in Mexico
City with travel to various INIFAP sites and to other institutions as necessary. Within two weeks of
beginning work, the consultant will have presented a detailed work plan to INIFAP management and to
the World Bank for approval. Within four weeks of approval of the work plan, the consultant will have
presented a basic design of the ]LS, including draft recommendations for system hardware and software.
The consultant would work closely with those working on the MIS and on the computing system.
14.          C=. It is expected that the consultancy would total 6 staff-months in the first two years
of the operation, and 3 months annually thereafter for a total of 21 months in the project life. Total
costs, including price contingencies, would be approximately US$234,000 and would be eligible for
reimbursement under the institutional development component of the loan.
15.          Timing. The Government has agreed to these terms of reference as a basis for the
consultants' work, to design the ILS no later than August 31, 1992 and to make the ILS operational no
later than January 1, 1993.



- 82 -                             Annex X
Page 1 of 2
MEX
AGRICULURAL TECHNOLQGY PROJECT
Resource Mobilization
A. Background
1.           The Mexican fiscal crisis of the 1980s induced severe cuts in public expenditure for
agricultural research and extension. At the same time, there has been a growing recognition of the need
to elicit better cost-sharing with the private sector in financing research and extension, both to restore the
lost budgets and to impose some of the costs of these activities on producers who benefit from them. It
is Aso recognized that the financing shares of research and extension are seriously unbalanced, with the
federal government giving 85-90 percent and others, including producers, state and local governments
and private firms, only 10-15 percent.
2.           One promising avenue for improving local government and private participation in
financing research and extension is through private-public partnerships called 'Patronatos de apoyo a la
investigacion'. The main objective of this long-term consultancy is to assist INIFAP and SARH in
developing patronatos where they do not exist and in improving them where they are active. The targets
of the consultancy would be to raise the contributions of non-federal funding-state and local
governments, producers organizations, private firms, individual producers, and other entities-in INIFAP
to the levels specified in Annex VIII.
B. Obiectives
3.           Specific objectives of the consultancy are to:
a.    Assist INIFAP, the CENIDs, the CIFAPs, other branches of the SARH and other
institutions as necessary in improving private, state government, and local government
financing for agricultural research and extension;
b.    Make a catalog of researchable problems affecting the productivity of agricultural
activities for whose solutions INIFAP has a comparative advantage. This will include
documenting available technology for solving those problems;
c.    Survey nationwide producers who might be interested in INIFAP technology;
d.    Catalog the principal sources of addidonal financing; and
e.    Determine internal and external factors which affect INIPAP's ability to mobilize
additional resources, including
i.    Institutional, legal, and administrative ones;



- 83-                               Annex X
Page 2 of 2
ii.    International, national, regional, or state factors which may affect the use of
technology developed by research;
iii.    Different models of obtaining additional resources, including those of INIFAP
and of its predecessors;
iv.    factors affecting the sale of services and products by INIFAP; and
f.    Determine the appropriate legal structures for bringing additional resources to INIFAP
from various different sources.
C. Qualifications
4.           The consultant wiUl have an advanced university degree, preferably a PhD, with
appropriate administration experience and with acceptable experience in agricultural technology
development in developing countries presenting similarities to Mexico. The candidate will speak Spanish
fluently and write it acceptably.
D. Supervision and Reporting
5.           The initial contract will be for 36 months, with the possibility of renewal for a period to
be agreed upon if performance is satisfact"ry. Within a month of signing the contract for the initial 36
months, the consultant will present a detailed work plan to INIFAP which is acceptable to the Bank.
Expected costs of the consultancy are approximately USS 340,000 during the first three years of the
project. The consultant will be based at INIFAP headquarters in Mexico City and will work under the
immediate supervision of the project unit.



- 84 -                              Anne XL2
Page 1 of 2
ME2CO
AGRIC= RAL  CHNOLOGY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.           The proposed operation is not unusually complex and supervision is therefore
expected to be relatively simple. A project launch workshop, to be held immediately after loan
effectiveness, would review planned budget and implementation in the first year.
Subsequently, two supervision missions would be held annually. The first, to be held in
March, would focus on achievements and problems noted in the annual report of the project, to
be submitted to the Bank no later than March 1 of each year. The second supervision would be
the annual review of the project and would be held no later than September 30 of each year. The
second supervision would review the annual budget and work plan, which will be submitted to
the Bank no later than June 15 of each year. Both supervisions will include visits to
laboratories and regional research sites supported by the project.
2.           The timetable for project supervision is as follows:
a.    Project launch workshop, second quarter 1992:
Focus on planned budget and implementation in 1992, including research plans,
development of the management information system, staff training, technical
assistance and plans to incorporate new extension districts into the project;
procurement, disbursement, and budgets of the executing agencies.
Bank participants (2 staff-weeks per specialist):
Task Manager.
Agriculturalist.
Disbursement specialist.
Procurement specialist.
b.    Second supervision (first annual project review) between September 1 and
September 30, 1992:
Focus: scientific issues in implementation of first year; in proposed work plan and
budget for second year; development of the integrated library system. Bank
participants (2 staff-weeks per specialist):
Task Manager.
Forestry research specialist.
Library/Scientific information specialist.
c.'    Third supervision, between March 1 and March 31, 1993:
Focus: progress in implementation and in achieving scientific results in first
year of project as shown in first year's annual report.
Bank participants (2 staff-weeks per specialist):
Task Manager.
Extension specialist.
Livestock research specialist



*-85 -                              Annex XI
Page 2 of 2
d.    Fourth supervision (second annual project review) between September I and
September 30, 1993:
Focus: scientific issues in proposed work plan for second year; review of eight
additional districts submitted for inclusion into the soil conservation sub-component.
Bank participants (2 staff-weeks per specialist):
Task Manager.
Crops research specialist.
Soil conservation specialist.
e.    Fifth supervision between March 1 and March 31, 1994:
Focus: progress in implementation and in achieving scientific results in first year of
project as shown in second year's annual report.
Bank participants (2 staff-weeks per specialist):
Task Manager.
Agriculturalist.
3.           Staff requirements for the initial five supervisions would be approximately 30
staff-weeks. A break-down of the supervision requirements by issue is shown in Attachment 1.
Table A11.1: SUMMARY OF BANK SUPERVISION FOR FIRST
30 MONTHS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
TASK                                  TIME
REQUIRED
(staff-weeks)
Plaming, programming,
and budgeting                                       5
Procurement and disbursement                          S
Technical supervision
Crops                                               10
Livestock                                           2
Forestry                                            2
Library/scientific information                      2
Extension                                           2
Soil conservation                                   2



-86-Annex Xl
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
AGIUBLTIRL Q TECHOLOGY PRQJ
Government Policy Letter
(Official Translation of Spanish Original)
SECRETARIAT OF AGRICULTURE
AND HYDRAULIC RESOURCES
Subsecretariat for Planning
National Institute for Forestry,
Agriculture and Livestock Research
Executive Board
Mexico, D.F., December 6, 1991
Hans Binswanger
Chief, LA2AG
World Bank
Dear Mr. Binswanger:
We refer to the Agricultural Technology Project currently in course of preparation,
which is to receive a loan from the World Bank in the amount of US$150 million.
This letter will serve as official notification of the broad lines of the medium-term
strategy to be adopted in the area of research and transfer of technology in the agriculture, livestock
and forestry sector.
The objectives of modernizing the sector and supporting the generation and transfer of
technology come from the 1989-94 National Development Plan, and are contained in the Program for
Agricultural Modernization and the Program of Scientific and Technological Modernization for the
period 1990-94. The basic objective is to increase the sector's output and productivity, thereby
improving the wellbeing of the farmers. The development and transfer of technologies represent
fundamental instruments in achieving this objective since they result, within an open market
framework, in improvements in the sector's competitiveness and in preservation of the productive
capacity of our natural resources.
The purpose of agricultural and forestry research is to generate, adapt, validate and
disseminate knowledge and technologies with the economic potential to bring about a sustained
increase in natural resource productivity, with benefits to producers and society as a whole. The
purpose of technical assistance is to create effective linkages between technological development and
the farming community by means of integrated extension schemes. By promoting farmers'
organizations and training programs, it provides them with the tools to make the best use of the
service provided.



- 87 -                               Anne m
Page 2 of 4
Priority crops for technological development and transfer of technology would be
maize, beans, wheat, rice, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits and certain industrial crops such as coffee,
cocoa and cotton, in the agriculture subsector; meat, milk and eggs in the livestock sector; and
management and conservation of the forest resource.
Priority disciplines will be soil conservation, water, and plant and animal health. And
where agroecological areas are concerned, priority will be assigned to rainfed and tropical areas, not
forgetting irrigated lands. These priorities will be taken into consideration in order to achieve a
suitably proportionate breakdown of public expenditure by crop, region and discipline.
Special attention will be paid to repairing the gap between potential and actual levels
of farmer productivity; preserving natural resources and reclaiming degraded areas; and strengthening
institutional capacities in the areas of resource allocation and administration of research and extension
programs.
Because of the limited scope for expanding the agricultural frontier, particularly in the
irrigated areas, there is greater pressure to increase production in rainfed and tropical areas. These
areas, weak in technology and poor in natural resources, require a research infrastructure of their
own, capable of providing locally developed solutions to the problems of production. Because these
are the areas of low farmer incomes and high production risks, and because the research programs
will take a long time to yield any results, their technological needs will demand priority attention
from the public sector.
Technological innovations have already been applied for some time in the irrigated
lands, with good results in terms of increased output. As this technological development continues, it
should focus primarily on the promotion of efficient water use and the strengthening of comparative
advantages offered by certain crops in existing market conditions, with, in this case, private resources
supplementing public funds. All these innovations will also benefit low-income farmers. In addition,
efforts should be made to meet the particular needs of areas recently opened up to irrigation, which
are having to shift from traditional rainfed and dry-season grazing [agostadero] methods to
modernized agricultural practices.
The basic approach calls for an increase in the resources made available for research
and transfer of technology by the public, social and private sectors, universities and other academic
institution3, and through the international technical cooperation agencies. The overall strategy falls
within a framework of mutually complementary actions and liaison among the executing agencies.
For implementation of the strategy, there is the existing institutional infrastructure in
the participating sectors, which operates as an open system in which the participants all have
specialized roles to play. The functions of the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH) are to program and develop agricultural, livestock anid forestry production and provide the
necessary technical assistance. In the area of research, the National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture
and Livestock Research, an agency now split off (desconcentrado] fiom SARH, handles basic, applied
and experimental research designed to identifv the most efficient uses of regional resources, generates
technologies suited to different ecological envi3onments and production systems, and, with the
participation of the farmers and extension agents, validates the new technologies for increasing
productivity.



- 88 -                               Anna XII
Page 3 of 4
Where actual transfers of technology are concerned, the institutional infrastructure
includes the SARH extension system, which monitors and supports the technical assistance service.
In the matter of passing on the cost of the service to the farmers, consideration will be
given to the latters' financial capacity and to the experiences in this area of certain institutions that
provide service to farmers.
Among the various instruments used, Government investment resources play a
strategic role. They will be allocated principally to the financing of scientific and technological
development projects that can be regarded as public assets, such as those related to soil and water
conservation; agronomic, animal husbandry, veterinary and forestry practices; animal and plant
health, etc. Because of the high risks involved and the length of time needed to achieve positive
results, the generation and transfer of technology for low-income farmers with productive potential
and for natural resource preservation are handled by SARH.
A gradual increase in these resources is projected over the next few years, depending
on the behavior of the economy and of the public finances. Their allocation will favor the training of
scientific and technical personnel; expansion and improvement of existing physical infrastructure for
research and technology transfers; and improvement, in real terms, of the working conditions for
research ai: t extension personnel, with a view to making them more competitive with other sectors.
A crucial element of the strategy is to attract resources to science and technology from
the social and private sectors. This will come about through technological projects jointly financed by
the public and private sector, with direct farmer participation in program formulation and appraisal.
Ihe creation of associations [patronatos], in which farmers identify the technologies they need and
contribute supplementary resources for the development of those technologies, is a successful example
of this interaction.
Private sector participation in technical assistance involves the gradual and selective
transfer of structures, assets and functions to the farmers' organizations, so as to ensure greater
efficiency in the provision of the service, which will be coordinated by the SARH extension system.
Those farmers who operate their farms as a business will bear the cost of the technical assistance
themselves, while farmers with undeveloped productive potential will receive support until they reach
a level of profitability enabling them to cover the cost of the service.
With regard to science and technology in this sector, the strategy adopted requires
greater coordination between the work being done within the country in the area of basic crops and
the actions of the national and international research centers, so that the greatest benefits can be
obtained from this interaction and there is no possibility of duplication. Thus it is proposed to
strengthen those linkages, and efforts are being made to achieve closer coordination with the
international technical cooperation agencies and the universities, in accordance with the priorities for
generating and transfeining technology.



- 89 -                                Annex Xll
Page 4 of 4
Thus the project we are jointly developing with the World Bank falls within the
sectoral strategy for raising output and productivity, and tackles the main constraints upon technology
generation and transfer, namely the training and retraining of staff in priority areas, the inadequacy of
physical and financial resources, and the lags in the performance of certain regions. The project aims
to solve these problems through investment in the sector's existing research and technology transfer
infrastructure, with a view to overcoming existing weaknesses and expanding the institutional
capacities of the executing agencies.
The emphasis ih on basic products and on rainfed and tropical areas, in particular
regarding the collection, cataloguing and preservation of genetic resources, satisfactory natural
resource management, and seed p: oduction. Efforts will be made to strengthen the capacity for
transferring technological innovations, thanks to the technical assistance provided by SARH.
Some of the project's principal benefits will take the form of increases in agricultural,
livestock and forestry production and the resultant improvemerfs in the wellbeing of the rural
dwellers.
Other benefits will be reflected in protection of the environment through dissemination
of improved soil and water conservation practices, integrated pest, disease and weed control, and
management and conservation of the forest resource. Institutional development will result in a more
efficient use of available resources at the research centers and in the technology transfer system,
which will in turn generate greater private sector participation.
We are confident that with the support of institutions such as the World Bank, our
Government will respond well to the challenge of reactivating growth in the agricultural sector.
The Subsecretary for Planning                    Executive Director INIFAP
Isl Dr. Luis Tellez Kuenzler                     Dr. Ernesto Samayoa Armienta



*nin.I                                                                           ,do*                                                                                                                  B l   RD
UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
LoRo ~                                                                                                                                                                                                           MEXICO
BAJA I                >iAGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJEC
[0411fONlA~~~~~~~~~ -                                 I   I  /  I  I'  I-' n  
V  0   \   A
/   C Al A                                                                                     PROJECT EXTENSION DISTRICTS:
IR.ro,ooiIIe                                                                                                            *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C..kl,9~ E,o PROCATI P,o.Ci. dnHn
992 -od *Ab..q- y.or1
t. P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  D-i,n., ,1,, in ..loioln n Eqnn2
_                                #   fjh~~~~~~~~~~CibUhVIoa  oIAno(4                                                                                                   D.n.opmn,Poni 9,1.0  ginnjng in 1992
_ -                     _ CA4r / O O e;: \ \% NATIONAL I CAPITAT                                                                                                                                            L
I GuoTma   8,  XN^xa   g        >         ,                        iNvwoRoszto                                                                     1S1  STATE CAPITALS
BAJA   -CRSO.'t th.                I&s                                                                1 f                                                                                        0 F  g  Nu yoletr  °    PRINCIPAL CITIES OPTOWNS
+                                                        No.nnLon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~          -    DIVIDED HIGHWAYS
CAlSFORNIA                                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED AAIN ROADS
sul i P                            wt y                 Pu or                    <                           yv                                                                           RAAIAROADS
CQOCOI'A   ~~~~~~~~~~    '1  '-~~~~~~~'  CI noFNOO.OWIOOO.                                                                        RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER
4    PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
-  -  STATE BOUNDARIES
Alter      Motonnonos                                   -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
Culi9ndn D u R A K l   '                        '
.mL l           MD.oin>ung                     -        Z(A   (e           t         S C1doD  I  lo
P." r%It   r-.                                                                                                                                           4 t  VOIIA
C. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~C
hIiIpannin.go                                                             -a-
[OWFO >; X i~~~~~~~K                                                                                                        BEL IZ E
ILRMETERS O               20       390      400                                                                                                                                                   .. A 1_
ROlLES R           tOO          iTEE           35i0                                                                                                  T     i                                                       GUATEMALA
Tho  hI.e, b- ...9db,oT %  Ndnn'  9011*Pn.
D.e Gh.3o.sp. T doelno,ioo os enIvrR. SonIo. eRo -eehA ,RIODlRA
.1 0. W.4d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~D?0
,,,h                    b-bvi=         i.                                                                                                                                                                                          HONDURAS
wr                                        ,0O                                                                                                                 APRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR



