Page  1
                                                April 5, 1993
Mr. Federico Patino Marquez
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Cuatro, Piso 8
01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Dear Mr. Patino:
                        RE:   MEXICO - Amendment of Loan 3465-ME
                              (Agricultural Technology Project)
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement for Loan No. 3465-ME
(Agricultural Technology Project) between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development ("the Bank") and Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. ("the Borrower") dated June 17, 1992.  The terms named in the
Loan Agreement have the same meaning in this letter set forth
therein.
      Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower and the
Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
      Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 ("Special Account") is deleted
and the following is substituted therefor:
            "(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means Categories
            1 through 8 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
            Schedule 1 to this Agreement;"
      The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended as follows:
in the Category entitled "Unallocated " is renumbered (9) in lieu of
(8).
      Please confirm your agreement to the above amendments by
signing the counterpart original of this letter in the space
provided and returning it to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the
copy countersigned original of this letter will be retroactive
effect to the date of signing of the Loan Agreement.
      Because of his interest in this matter, we are sending a copy
of this letter to the Director General de Credito Publico of the
Guarantor.
                         Very truly yours,
                        By /s/ Paul Knotter
                          Acting Director
                           Department II
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
By /s/ Authorized Representative
Page  2
cc: Director General de Credito Publico
    Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
