Document of
The World Bank 4
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2848-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL OF
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
TURKEY
April 25, 1980
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                                    Lira (LT)
LT 1                                                             100 Kurus (krs)
US$1                                                             LT 70
LT 1                                                             US$0.014
Currency equivalents are those effective March 1980.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW                                                               kilowatt
MW                                                                1,000 kW
kWh                                                              kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                                              1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)                                                     1,000 volts
One meter (m)                                                    3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                                               0.624 miles
One kilogram (kg)
(1,000 grams)                                                  2.2 pounds
One tone (metric ton)
(1,000 kg)                                                     2,205 pounds
One kilocalorie (kcal)
(1,000 calories)                                               3.968 BTU
Cumecs (m3/second)                                               35.31 cubic feet
per second
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AY           - Arthur Young & Company
CEAS         - Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Power Company)
DSI          - Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
EIB          - European Investment Bank
EIE          - Elektrik Isleri Etut Idaresi (Electric Studies Institute)
EGO          - Ankara Electricity, Gas and Transport Company
ELECTROWATT  - Electrowatt Engineering Services LTD
ESHOT        - Izmir Electricity and Transport Company
HCB          - High Control Board
IETT         - Istanbul Elektrik, Tramway, Tunel Isletmeleri (Istanbul
Electricity Tramway and Tunnel Company)
KfW          - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOE          - Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA          - Mineral Research Institute
SGI          - Societe Generale pour l'Industrie
SEE          - State Economic Enterprise
SIB          - State Investment Bank
SPO          - State Planning Organization
SWOCI        - Stone and Webster Overseas Consultants
TAMS         - Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton
TEK          - Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI          - Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal Enterprises)
TPAO >       - Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum Corporation)
Fiscal Year = January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE   POWER  AND   ENERGY   SECTOR   ..................................                                                              1
A.     Energy   Resources   .........................................                                                                1
Indigenous   Resources   .....................................                                                              1
Consumption   Trends   .......................................                                                               1
Organization   of   the  Energy   Sector   ........................                                                          2
Energy Policy . ............................,                                                                               2
B.     The   Power   Subsector   ......................................                                                             3
General   ..................................................                                                                3
The Turkish Electricity Authority  (TEK)  ..................                                                                 3
The  State  Hydraulic  Works   (DSI)   ..........................                                                           4
The  Electric   Studies   Institute   (EIE)   .....................                                                         4
Concessionary   Power   Companies   ............................                                                            4
Municipal Power Distribution Enterprises  ....                                                   .............              4
Historical  Development   ...................................                                                                5
Development   Program   ......................................                                                               7
Generation   ...............................................                                                                 8
Transmission  Network   .....................................                                                               9
Rural   Electrification   ....................................                                                              9
Development Program Costs ...........................,                                                                      9
Tariffs   ..................................................                                                               11
C.     The   Project   Entities   .....................................                                                           12
II.      THE   PROJECT   ..................................................                                                                 12
Objectives   ...............................................                                                               12
Description   ..............................................                                                               13
Status   of  Engineering   ....................................                                                            14
Project   Cost   Estimate   ....................................                                                          15
Project   Financing   Plan   ...................................                                                           16
Implementation   ...........................................                                                              17
Procurement   ..............................................                                                               18
Disbursements   ............................................                                                               19
Insurance   ................................................                                                              19
Environmental   Impact   .....................................                                                             20
International   Aspects   ....................................                                                            22
Project Risks .............................................                                                               25
This report was prepared by Messrs. V. Mastilovic (Engineer), W.G. Hamlet
(Financial Analyst) and V.N. Rajagopalan (Loan Officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                     Page No.
III.   FINANCE   ......................................................  26
Accounting  and  Auditing  .................................  26
Transfer of Karakaya Assets to TEK ......................    26
TEK's  Financial  Performance  .............................  27
Substitution of a Cash Generation Covenant for the
Existing Rate of Return Covenant ......................    28
Municipal Overdues and TEK's Liquidity ....  ..............    30
Power  Subsector  Financing  ...............................  31
Proposed Comprehensive Review of Power Subsector
Financing   .............................................  33
IV.    PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  ........................................  33
Power  Market  Growth   .....................................  33
Alternative Development Strategies ......................    34
Comparison  of  Alternatives   ..............................  34
Return  on  Investment   ....................................  34
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................    35
ANNEXES
1.1     National Power Sector Statistical Data (1965-1978)
1.2     Interconnected Power System Statistical Data (1971-1978)
1.3     Thermal Power Plant Characteristics and Operation Costs
1.4     Hydropower Plant Characteristics and Operation Costs
1.5     Transmission Network Data
1.6     Forecast Balances of Capacities and Energy
1.7     Forecast of TEK's Electricity Sales
1.8     Existing and Projected Major Industrial Loads
1.9     Rural Electrification Program, Performance and Plans
1.10    Development Program Costs
1.11    DSI's Organization Chart
1.12    TEK's Organization Chart
2.1     Description of the Project
2.2     Project Cost Estimate
2.3     Construction Works Schedule (CPM Network)
2.4     Central Coordinating Committee
2.5     Disbursement Schedule
2.6     Studies of Reservoir Filling and Operation for Projects
on the Euphrates River
3.1     TEK's Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 1973-79
3.2     Objectives and Method of Monitoring TEK's Cash Generation
3.3     TEK's Cash Generation and Power Subsector Investments of TEK
and DSI for the Years Ended December 31, 1980-86
3.4     Terms of Reference for the Comprehensive Review of the
Power Subsector Financing
4.      Justification of the Project
5.      Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD - 14798
IBRD - 12793R1



I. THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
Indigenous Resources
1.01      Turkey's main indigenous energy resources are hydropower and lignite.
Other resources consist of coal, oil shale, oil, uranium and geothermal energy.
The total hydropower potential is estimated at 100,000 GWh p.a. with a corres-
ponding installed capacity of 25,000 MW; of which nearly 30% is developed or
under construction. The major part of the estimated usable hydropower potential
(31,000 GWh) is concentrated in the Euphrates River (called the Firat in Turkey)
basin, where the Keban (6,278 GWh; 1,260 MW) and Karakaya hydropower plants
(7,762 GWh; 1,800 MW) are now being developed. The first four out of eight
generating units of the Keban hydropower plant are already in operation.
Lignite reserves are estimated at 5,500 million tons. The largest deposits
are at Afsin-Elbistan, where a 1,200 MW thermal power plant is now under
construction. Based on the lignite reserves it would be possible to build
additionally about 10,000 MW of thermal power plant. The estimated oil
reserves are in the order of 60 million tons, but intensive prospecting for
oil and gas has not yet been done. The known reserves of uranium total 4,500
tons of uranium oxide (U308).  Geothermal energy resources, though of wide
occurrence, have not been adequately evaluated so far. The first geothermal
power plant (15 MW) is currently under construction to test feasibility and
economic viability of geothermal fields for electricity generation. Non-
commercial energy sources, wood and wastes, which contributed more than half
of Turkey's energy supply in 1960 have declined to less than 20% by 1978. The
rural energy supply is a serious issue which calls for more active considera-
tion in planning and policy decisions. This will be followed-up as part of the
Bank's economic and sector work program.
Consumption Trends
1.02      Total primary commercial energy consumption in Turkey has increased
from about 11 million in 1960 to 30 million tons of oil equivalent in 1976
(the latest year for which data are available). This reflects an annual
growth rate of 6.5%. The per capita consumption of commercial energy in
Turkey reached 780 kgs of oil equivalent in 1976, compared with 2200 kgs for
Yugoslavia and an average for all developing countries of 298 kgs. The most
important trends in the energy supply pattern have been the decreasing share
of coal and non-commercial sources of energy and the increasing share of
petroleum, which now accounts for more than half of total energy consumption.
While the share of coal in energy supply has shown a declining trend in the
last twenty years, lignite utilization, particularly in power generation, has
significantly increased. Petroleum consumption in 1978 was about 17 million
tons of which about 3 million tons, or 18%, were produced domestically.
Amongst the petroleum products, fuel oil, which is used primarily for power
generation and in industry, accounts for nearly half of the total petroleum



- 2-
products consumption. The cost of imported oil, which will reach US$3.2
billion in 1980, is nearly equal to the country's entire annual export
income. The country's economy is currently almost paralyzed by the oil supply
shortages, which are expected to continue in the foreseeable future.
Organization of the Energy Sector
1.03      The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MOE), established in
1963, has official jurisdiction over the development of energy resources in
Turkey. The main organizations in the energy sector dealing with power
generation and supply are described below (para. 1.06). The public sector
organizations involved in development of fossil fuels and radioactive minerals
are the Turkish Coal Enterprises (TKI), the Turkish Petroleum Corporation
(TPAO) and the Mineral Research Institute (MTA). TKI is a State Economic
Enterprise (SEE) responsible for developing Turkey's coal and lignite resources
and for selling its production of coal, lignite and by-products. TKI's
development plans are closely interrelated to coal and lignite requirements
for power generation. TPAO deals with the exploration of petroleum and
natural gas resources and owns three of the four existing oil refineries in
Turkey. TPAO also owns and operates about 1,500 km of oil pipelines. The
marketing and distribution of petroleum products is carried out by domestic
and foreign petroleum companies. MTA is involved in the exploration of coal,
lignite, geothermal energy and uranium ore. MTA coordinates its exploration
programs with TPAO and carries out geological and geophysical studies for TKI,
TPAO and other institutions.
Energy Policy
1.04      A major objective of the Government's energy policy is optimum
utilization of indigenous resources to restrain the growing dependence on
imported oil. As a part of such policy Turkey is trying to develop its own
energy resources, particularly hydropotential of the Euphrates River and
lignite deposits at Afsin-Elbistan. These resources are located in the
eastern part of the country while consumption is predominately in the urban-
ized western Turkey. The hydropower potential and lignite reserves could
cover power generation needs almost to the end of this century. In late
1990s, power sector development is expected to rely on nuclear energy.
Although not economically justified before 1994, the first nuclear power plant
is planned for 1988 in order to obtain required experience in the construction
and operation of nuclear power plants.
1.05      Apart from measures to develop indigenous energy resources and to
restrain the pace of oil consumption through price increases and restricted
supply, the Government plans to expand petroleum exploration activities by
increasing the financial resources available to TPAO, encouraging joint-
ventured exploration efforts in collaboration with foreign oil companies,
providing increased incentives for offshore explorations and application of
enhanced recovery methods to existing oil fields. However, despite all these
measures, Turkey is unlikely to accomplish its objectives of meeting 60% of
the demand from domestic production during this decade, unless sizeable new
reserves are discovered in the near future. Specific features of the national



-3-
energy policy are: effective energy conservation; development of oil shale,
geothermal and solar energy and other resources; and long-range energy
planning encompassing viable supply options, demand and utilization patterns.
The cost of imported oil, and prolonged fuel oil and power shortages make
energy supplies one of the most critical factors constraining Turkey's economy
growth. Therefore, the Bank's continuing involvement in assisting Turkey to
develop its own energy resources, particularly hydro and geothermal, would
help Turkey to alleviate the dependence on imported crude oil and reduce the
risk of energy supply interruptions.
B. The Power Subsector
General
1.06      Main organizations involved in power generation, transmission and
distribution, including other activities of interest for the power subsector,
are the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK), the State Hydraulic Works (DSI),
the Electric Studies Institute (EIE), concessionary power companies--the
Cukurova Electric Company (CEAS) and the Kepez Electric Company (Kepez AS),
and municipal power distribution enterprises.
The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK)
1.07      TEK is an SEE with headquarters in Ankara.  According to Law 1312,
which established TEK in 1970, the main responsibilities of TEK are: to
prepare the plans and programs for the general electrification of Turkey; to
construct thermal power plants, transmission and distribution networks; to
carry out rural electrification and to manage the Rural Electrification Fund;
and to generate, transport, distribute and sell electricity to municipal power
distribution enterprises and to large customers. It may borrow in its own
name with the Ministry of .Finance as guarantor. SEEs, such as TEK, are
required to run on commercial lines, and are subject to taxation (e.g. income
taxes of 41.7%) like private joint stock companies. However, SEEs are
still subject to close Governmental supervision and their autonomy has been
severely limited by their lack of freedom in setting personnel policies and
structuring salary scales and the Government's active role in determining
pricing of their goods and services. TEK's ability to recruit and retain
competent personnel, especially experienced engineers with senior level
management capabilities, has long been affected by the Personnel Law governing
SEEs. Attempts to overcome management and staffing problems through special
authority to hire outside personnel on contract did not prove to be effective.
Under the TEK II loan, TEK's consultants have prepared a detailed manpower
study and TEK has agreed to furnish a program of action to implement the
recommendations of the study. The manpower problems can only be resolved by a
basic SEE reform. The new economic policy package, announced by the Govern-
ment on January 25, 1980, envisages substantial changes in SEEs. SEEs will be
allowed to set their own prices and their deficits will no longer be met from
the budget.



-4-
The State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
1.08      DSI, with a central office in Ankara, is a state agency (created by
Law 6200 in 1953) with the principal responsibility for developing water
projects for the three sectors of:
(1)  Agriculture - including primary irrigation, draining of marshy
lands, and flood control;
(2)  Power - identification, design, and construction of hydropower
plants to generate electricity; and
(3)  Public Service - supply of domestic and industrial water for
cities over 100,000 population and assisting these cities in plan-
ning, designing and constructing sewerage networks and treatment
facilities.
The TEK law requires that, while preparing its five-year plan and annual
investment programs, DSI shall take into consideration TEK's requirements of
hydropower facilities. The law further provides for continuous collaboration
between DSI and TEK in the areas of identifying, planning, constructing and
operating hydropower installations and also stipulates that coordination
between the two authorities will be ensured by MOE.
The Electric Studies Institute (EIE)
1.09      EIE is a study and research institute mainly involved in geological
investigations and hydrological studies, including the collection of hydro-
logical data. This institute also acts as a quasi-consulting agency for power
organizations, TEK, DSI and MOE.
Concessionary Power Companies
1.10      While TEK is responsible for electricity generation and transmission
in 63 of the 67 provinces of Turkey, power operations in the other four prov-
inces are delegated to the concessionary companies; CEAS and Kepez AS. CEAS
takes responsibility for the three provinces of Adana, Icel and Hatay. Its
power system is connected to the Turkish interconnected network by 154-kV
transmission lines. Kepez AS has the concession for the province of Antalya.
The power system in this area is also linked to the Turkish interconnected
network and part of its power requirement is met by purchases from TEK. In
both concessionary companies TEK is the largest individual shareholder. These
companies, allowed to operate but not to expand, may in time be nationalized.
Municipal Power Distribution Enterprises
1.11      Turkey has over a hundred municipal power distribution organizations,
of which the largest are in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. Electricity sales of



- 5 -
these three large distribution companies represent about 63% of the total
municipal sales. Most municipal organizations are also involved in other
municipal activities, such as public transportation and gas supply.
Historical Development
1.12      National power subsector statistical data for the period 1965-1978
are shown in Annex 1.1. Total generation increased from 4,953 GWh in 1965 to
21,726 GWh in 1978 (trend growth rate 11.5% p.a.). Total installed capacity
rose from 1,491 MW in 1965 to 4,869 MW in 1978. Hydro generation averaged
about 37% of the total generation during the period. The development struc-
ture of electricity sales, in total and by customer categories, is summarized
below:
Sales (GWh)                1965         %        1978         %
Residential                 560         13      2,796         15
Commercial                  264          6      1,198          6
Industrial                3,080         73     13,885         73
Government                  163          4        685          3
Public lighting             116          3         323         2
Transport                    54          1         133         1
Total                4,237        100     19,020        100
Total electricity sales increased at a trend rate of 10% 1/ annually.  Indus-
trial consumption was predominant and its share in total electricity consump-
tion (73%) remained unchanged.  This also indicates that domestic consumption
is still undeveloped and that about a half of the population has no access to
public electricity supply. Electricity losses increased from 16.9% in 1965 to
17.5% in 1978 of total electricity,sales. Such very high losses are mostly
caused by inefficient power plant operation, old generation and distribution
facilities, and inadequate electricity meter readings and customers' billings.
1.13      Power subsector statistical data for the interconnected system are
shown in detail in Annex 1.2. The installed capacity of the public utilities
generating plants in Turkey at the end of 1978 was 4,125 MW (85% of Turkey's
total), consisting of 3,801 MW (92%) in the system operated by TEK, 298 MW
(7%) in CEAS' system and 26 MW (1%) in Kepez's system. In addition, munici-
palities' installed capacity was 145 MW and self-producers' 597 MW. In 1978
power generation of the three power utility companies amounted to 91% of the
total power generation in Turkey, municipalities 1% and self-producers 8%.
1/   Annual increases fluctuated widely; from 7.9% in 1974 to 19.2% in 1976
and to 6% in stagnant 1978. Years 1977 and 1978 were characterized by
severe power supply restrictions.



The maximum demand of the interconnected system reached 3,641 MW in 1978.
Specific electricity consumption increased from 229 kWh/capita in 1971 to 441
kWh/capita in 1978, the level achieved by Portugal in 1956.
1.14      The power system at present contains a large number of small,
inefficient generating plants (up to 100 MW). Combustion turbine plants
represent about 20% of the total thermal capacities. These plants are not
only used for covering peaking demand but also for prolonged base load
requirements. Three larger hydropower plants are Gokcekaya (278 MW), Sariyar
(160 MW) and Keban (1,260 MW), half of which is now in operation. All other
hydropower plants have installed capacities less than 100 MW. Basic data and
main characteristics of the thermal and hydropower generating plant (existing,
under construction and proposed) are given in Annexes 1.3 and 1.4. These
annexes indicate that the majority of TEK's existing power generation plants
are old and very expensive for power generation.
1.15      The transmission network consists of overhead transmission lines and
substations operated at 34.5, 154 and 380-kV, which interconnect almost the
entire country. Details of the transmission network are given in Annex 1.5
and Map (IBRD 14798). The 380-kV transmission network has been in operation
since 1974. This network, which is of the predominantly radial configuration,
has been proven as rather stable; voltage and reactive power control were
satisfactory, as were energization conditions and insulation coordination.
1.16      The operation of the generating plants and the transmission facili-
ties is coordinated by TEK with full cooperation of CEAS and Kepez. The
Turkish power system is interconnected with the Bulgarian and Russian power
systems through 154-kV transmission links. These links permit power import
and emergency supplies. Since 1975 Turkey has been importing electricity,
which reached an amount of 621 GWh in 1978 (about 4% of TEK's sales). A
possible interconnection with Syria is under consideration. Turkey is an
active member of the group of the Balkan power organizations which has the
objective to promoting interconnection and joint operation of the power
systems by studying and proposing solutions for various power system opera-
tional problems. Due to the lack of fuel-oil for thermal power plants,
inadequacy of generating capacities and operational problems, Turkey is forced
to shed load and impose frequency and voltage reductions. Power cuts in
duration of 5 hours a day or more are a regular practice. No systematic
attempts have been made to evaluate the losses to the national economy caused
by the power cuts. It is believed an undelivered kWh costs the national
economy five to ten times that of its tariff value. There is no automatic
load-frequency control and the teletransmission data system is undeveloped.
TEK is presently studying these matters so that necessary improvements may be
expected in the next few years.
1.17      Since 1952 the Bank has made nine loans and a technical assistance
grant (total US$356.65 million) and IDA has extended three credits (total
US$55.7 million) for the development of the power subsector in Turkey. These
comprise loans/credits for three hydropower projects, of which two are multi-
purpose; two thermal power plants (oil-fuelled and lignite); a lignite mine;
and transmission and distribution network projects. The Technical Assistance



- 7 -
Grant was for help in reorganizing the Turkey's power subsector. The first
five loans/credits were for works in the service area of CEAS. All the
projects in the CEAS' area were successfully completed and are now in operation.
The project performance audit report on two loans to CEAS (623-TU and 775-TU)
concluded that the key objectives of these loans were largely met. The
Istanbul Power Distribution Project is about three years behind schedule.
The Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project, which is being co-financed by the
Bank, KfW and EIB, has been delayed more than two years mainly because the
Borrowers, TEK and TKI, are chronically short of qualified and experienced
staff and project coordination is ineffective. The last loan was made for the
TEK Transmission,II project in 1975. Although Bank's lending to TEK and TKI
has not shown the expected results it was instrumental in their institutional
building and introduction of modern planning, managerial and financial methods
and practices.
Development Program
1.18      The national load forecasts, prepared by TEK, for the period 1979-
1986 (Annex 1.6) show sales increasing from 21,805 GWh in 1979 to 56,857 GWh
in 1986, with a trend growth rate of 13.9% p.a. The maximum demand would
increase from 4,060 MW in 1979 to 11,240 MW in 1986. TEK's electricity sales
forecasts are shown in Annex 1.7. Sales to municipalities would represent 48%
of TEK's total sales in 1980 and 36% in 1986. A relatively rapid increase is
expected in large industrial sales, whose share in TEK's total sales will
increase from 42% in 1980 to 50% in 1986. According to contract arrangements
with Bulgaria and the USSR, Turkey will import during the period 1979-1982 up
to 2,000 GWh annually. The forecast also implies that per capita consumption
would rise from about 441 kWh/capita in 1978 to some 1,600 kWh in 1992, i.e.
to about the level attained by Yugoslavia in 1972 or Italy in 1966.
1.19      While the previous TEK load forecasts, though seldom fully realized,
have been found to be within a reasonable range of divergence, TEK's current
projection looks optimistic in relation to Turkey's present stage of develop-
ment and near-term prospects. Projected major new industrial loads are shown
in Annex 1.8. TEK's forecast of industrial consumption does not appear to be
realistic in spite of the fact that an increase of industrial consumption is
expected when major power plants (Elbistan, etc.) enter into operation.
Therefore, an alternative load forecast has been prepared for appraisal
purposes, which shows an annual load trend growth rate of 11.2%. It is always
possible that some of the industrial loads may be late or fail to materialize
and also changes in other customer categories might occur. Therefore, for the
sensitivity analysis of the power subsector development TEK uses annual growth
rates +10% of the basic forecast, which are judged to cover the likely range
of possibilities.
1.20      TEK's Planning Department, in association with the design and
construction department of TEK, DSI, and foreign consultants, prepares long-
term development studies (up to the year 2000) and medium-term investment
programs. The medium-term investment programs are usually revised at least
once a year. The Bank has played an active role in introduction of modern
planning methods in the Turkish power system. Power system planning methods



-8-
in Turkey are soundly based for the purpose of determining the least-cost
development programs, using computer models incorporating linear programming
and mathematical simulation techniques and testing the results over a reason-
able range of discount rates (up to 16%). All development alternatives
envisage the construction of the Karakaya hydropower project as part of the
least-cost means of meeting the projected growth of power demand in Turkey.
1.21      While the power system planning methods appear to be generally
adequate, the present procedures for power subsector planning, especially
hydropower planning, should be further improved. In order to develop the
available hydropower potential about 540 hydro sites have been identified for
possible development, of which only 40 have been studied in detail. TEK is
not always fully involved at the identification, selection and design stage of
new hydropower plants as it should be, in order to ensure preparation of the
most appropriate hydro projects for construction. MOE does not fulfill
properly its coordination function between DSI and TEK in power subsector
planning. There is insufficient coordination also between TEK and TKI in
formulating development programs for coal and lignite mining construction.
MOE, State Planning Organization (SPO), DSI, TEK, TKI and other concerned
agencies charged with the responsibility of formulating long-term and medium-
term plans for power subsector development should improve their mutual
coordination in the hydropower planning and coal and lignite development
programs. During negotiations, the Government has agreed: (i) to complete,
by December 31, 1981, a review of existing arrangements for the coordination
of the development and investment plans in the power subsector, particularly
hydroelectric planning and the development programs of TEK and TKI; (ii) to
make recommendations on strengthening integrated investment planning and
coordinating procedures to be used for its power subsector and on measures to
be taken to ensure the timely execution of investment plans; and (iii) after
the Bank's comments, to implement promptly the proposed recommendations and
measures.
Generation
1.22      Details of forecast national energy and capacity balances and pro-
posed generation facilities are given in Annex 1.6. They show that the
installed capacity is expected to grow from 5,134 MW (41% hydro) in 1979
to 15,976 MW (51% hydro) by 1986. The plant margin is very low in the period
1980-1983. In this period, the generating plants would not be capable of
meeting, without restrictions, the required power system needs in the case
of average and low hydraulicity. According to the preliminary results the
hydrological conditions in 1979 were favorable and hydro generation achieved
its expectations. In the period 1984-1986 the plant margin looks appropriate
taking into account likely delays in the new power plants' commissioning,
changeable hydrological conditions, generation and transmission facility
outages, and unexpected changes in electricity consumption.
1.23      Thermal power plants, under construction or proposed, would use
lignite for power generation. Among these twelve thermal power plants special
attention and priority would be given to the completion of the Elbistan, Soma
and Yatagan thermal power plants. Installing the remaining four generating



- 9 -
units at Keban and construction of the Karakaya and Oymapinar hydropower
projects are of the highest priority in the Turkish power system. The progress
of the construction of the power plants is dependent on available financial
resources, both local and foreign. The Turkish authorities have confirmed
that the available financing would be used primarily for these high priority
power plants. DSI has secured the preparation of feasibility studies and basic
designs, some of which detailed, for several economically attractive hydropower
projects, but financial constraints still prevent their construction. DSI's
capability to undertake multiple projects, once a constraint, is now con-
sidered to be adequate.
Transmission Network
1.24      Major power generation will be concentrated in eastern/central
Turkey and has to be transferred to the consumption centers located in the
western part of the country over a distance of about 700-800 km. Transmission
network construction until 1986 will include 5,669 km of 380-kV, 45,000 km of
154-kV and 30-kV lines and 22,363 MVA in substation capacities. Several
transmission network alternatives, including superimposition of an 800-kV
network or of a high voltage direct current link, have been studied by TEK and
its consultants. The selected alternative calls for further extension of the
380-kV transmission network. The preliminary plan of the 380-kV transmission
network at the stage when all the hydropotential of the Eurphates River basin
and the lignite fields at Afsin-Elbistan are fully developed has been prepared.
Rural Electrification
1.25      At the beginning of 1979 about 70% of the population in rural
areas still had no access to public electricity supply. The Government plans
to provide in the period 1979-1986 electricity to some 19,000 villages having
populations ranging from 50 to 2,000. Prior to 1964, only 268 villages had
been electrified but since then the number of villages electrified each year
has gradually increased, reaching about 1,750 in 1978. In the future it is
hoped that the rate can be about 2,500 villages per year. By the end of 1978
about 12,500 villages had been electrified (Annex 1.9). Standardization of
equipment and improved construction and contracting procedures have accele-
rated the rate of rural-area electrification. The rural electrification
program is financed by contributions from the Government budgets, village
contributions (which will be abandoned), a levy of one krs/kWh on non-village
consumers of electricity excluding large industrial consumers and various
public authorities. The Rural Electrification Fund is managed by TEK and
construction of rural electrification networks is done by various state
agencies and local contractors.
Development Program Costs
1.26      Details of the development program and its costs are given in
Annex 1.10. The total estimated investment costs during the period 1980-1986,
based on early 1980 prices, are summarized below:



- 10 -
US$ Million
Hydropower Plants (DSI)                             4,107
Thermal Plants, Transmission and
Rural Electrification (TEK)                      14,164
Distribution (Main Municipalities)                  1,637
Lignite Mines for Power Generation (TKI)            2,185
Total        22,093
of which the Project                                  919 (4% of total)
An intensive construction program is required to meet power requirements after
several years of severe power shortages due to delays in power generating
plant construction. The development program costs appear large and it would
not be reasonable to expect that the whole development program would be
completed in the studied period. It is traditional for Turkey's development
plans and the state economic enterprises to overstate their investment pro-
grams. These programs are usually scaled down on an annual basis to comply
with financial resources availability. Therefore, this program has been
analyzed taking into account the lower growth demand. The results have shown
that the proposed construction program hardly covers power requirements up
to 1984, as estimated by the appraisal mission. The physical power subsector
investment program is unrelated to available financial resources. Changes
in the Fourth 5-Year Plan will, therefore, be made in the annual programs and
the SPO has promised to notify the Bank of any changes.
1.27      It was not possible to study in sufficient depth as part of the
Project's appraisal the financial implications for Turkey to find the needed
capital resources. However, given present serious resource constraints, it is
obvious that Turkey would have many difficulties in securing financing of some
of their projects. Furthermore, TEK's investment program contains more than
US$4 billion for future thermal power projects yet to be indentified. These
projects are planned to be commissioned after 1986. It would be reasonable to
expect that investments for the above projects will be postponed by 2-3 years
due to difficulties in securing their financing. Therefore, actual investments
in the power subsector are estimated to be about 75% of TEK's investment
plans. This estimate corresponds to the recent Turkish experience in power
subsector investments (para. 3.18). In the past, the subsector's development
has been funded primarily from the national budget and only to a slight extent
from its own cash generation capability. Extensive foreign borrowings have
also been necessary. Government's ability to sustain the forecast rates of
growth has not been demonstrated. From the viewpoint of project execution,
the public sector institutions suffer from an acute shortage of experienced
staff at all levels and this both hampers the physical execution of works and
makes virtually impossible the application of modern management practices even
when there is a willingness to adopt these. The result has been that projects
are substantially delayed and the power subsector has for the past several
years been unable to meet the demands for electricity.



- 11 -
Tariffs
1.28      TEK is, by law, free to determine the prices of its goods and
services.  By a decree of 1967, this freedom was circumscribed when prices
of basic goods and services such as electricity, coal, cement, steel, rail
transport, etc. became subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers.
Though this decree provided for Government's compensation of any loss result-
ing from its price fixation, in practice, decisions were reached through
informal consultations between TEK and the Government, to avoid mandatory
Government subsidies. This blurred responsibilities in the matter of meeting
tariffs and left TEK unable to fix tariffs in relation to its costs and to
secure its financial objectives. However, in January 1980 this situation
was changed when the Government removed most of the goods and services
provided by SEEs from the purview of basic goods, thus restoring the freedom
of the enterprises to determine prices, except for electricity tariffs for
aluminum and ferrochrome production and for coal and lignite; in the case of
these items, the Government would reimburse the SEEs for any losses incurred
by them.
1.29      TEK's present electricity tariffs are established on the basis
of double-term tariff rates, for load demand (kW) and energy (kWh), and a
single-term tariff rate for energy only; included is an automatic fuel adjust-
ment clause, and penalties for excessive reactive energy consumption. With
certain exceptions, the consumer may choose between the double and single-term
tariff rates. The tariff structure does not reflect directly the costs to the
economy of meeting the demand for electricity supply. TEK has completed a
comprehensive tariff study covering the whole country with a view to estab-
lishing appropriate pricing policies and tariff structures at the bulk supply
level and at retail distribution level. The Government appointed a committee
of experts (para. 3.21) to establish pricing policies and would incorporate
the tariff study in making its recommendations for pricing policies for
electricity.
1.30      Retail tariffs are set by each municipality subject to the approval
of MOE. A revision of TEK's tariffs would normally necessitate corresponding
revision of municipal tariffs in order to maintain a viable financial position
of municipalities. However, in the past, revision of municipal tariffs was
sometimes delayed causing severe financial problems for the municipalities.
The Government agreed under Loan 1194-TU to ensure that municipal retail
tariffs are adjusted promptly and in a manner and amounts commensurate with
adjustments TEK may make from time to time. In keeping with this undertaking,
the Government has taken action to increase municipal retail tariffs follow-
ing TEK's tariff increases in 1978, 1979 and 1980. Istanbul's sales are 20%
of TEK's total sales, and Istanbul's retail tariffs were increased nearly
135% from September 1, 1979 to April 1, 1979; and the increase in 1980 is
expected to average about 150%. TEK's tariffs and the problems of munici-
palities diverting electricity revenues for other municipal purposes are
discussed in para. 3.13.



- 12 -
C. The Project Entities
1.31      DSI is responsible, in coordination with TEK, for planning, design-
ing, constructing and putting the Project into effective operation. TEK will
be responsible for operation of power facilities, after the assets are trans-
ferred to it as Government equity. Agencies responsible for the relocation of
installations and services within the Project area will also actively contri-
bute to the realization of the Project. These include the general directorates
for State Highways; Railroads, Harbors and Airports; PTT and Settlement.
1.32      DSI's functions and legal responsibilities are described in para
1.08. The existing organization of DSI is shown in Annex 1.11. It is admin-
istered by a Director General and has a field organization consisting of
21 Regional Directorates and Operating Groups. DSI runs on the line manage-
ment principle by suitable delegation of authority. It has about 30,000
employees, some 2,000 of which are engineers. Over 2,000 of the total staff
are located in the central office in Ankara. Under the DSI law, Government
finances expenditures of nearly all DSI activities from its annual budget
allocations. DSI has long experience in hydropower plant construction,
management, procurement, and environment protection matters. With the assis-
tance of the selected consultants and improved Project site management (para.
2.15) DSI will be capable of ensuring proper construction management of the
Karakaya hydropower project.
1.33      As the ultimate beneficiary TEK will have the responsibility of
operating the Project. TEK employs about 18,000 of which 1,500 are engineers
and technicians. The organizational structure of TEK is shown in Annex 1.12.
In spite of the current staffing problems, it is expected that TEK will be able
to operate the Project satisfactorily. The required operating personnel will
be trained in the Keban hydropower plant and then transferred to the Karakaya
hydropower plant to take over its operation and maintenance. TEK also plans
to arrange with DSI additional training for the Karakaya operating staff
during construction of the Project. The planned arrangements for recruitment
and training of the Project operating staff are considered satisfactory.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives
2.01      The principal objectives of the physical facilities of the Project
will be to provide additional capacity for the Turkish power system (1,800 MW
and 7,353 GWh yearly average) and to enable better utilization of the upstream
Keban hydropower plant (the output of Keban will increase by about 400 GWh
in an average hydro year), thus saving on foreign expenditures by substituting
less expensive hydropower energy for imported oil. Further benefits would be
increased job opportunities for the local construction sector and additional
employment possibilities during the construction period. Also, some benefits



- 13 -
for future projects are expected from the Project, as a result of the more
regulated Euphrates River flows downstream of the Project dam site, but these
have not been quantified so far. The Karakaya project area is one of the most
backward regions in Turkey, both socially and economically. The Project is
expected to have a positive influence on social and economic development and
to contribute to reducing poverty in this part of Turkey. Additional objec-
tives would be the continuation of the institution-building effort started
with the establishment of TEK, improvement of coordination in power sector
planning, the development of appropriate policies for power sector financing,
including energy pricing, and possible contribution toward riparian coordina-
tion in the use of the Euphrates waters.
Description
2.02      The Project is described in detail in Annex 2.1.  It consists of
the Karakaya dam and hydropower plant with a reservoir of 5.6 km3 of useful
storage on the Euphrates River, located about 160 km downstream of the Keban
hydropower plant, comprising a concrete arch-gravity dam 173 m high with an
overflow spillway, intakes, penstocks, a power house at the toe of the dam
containing six 3Q0-MW turbogenerator units, appropriate accessory equipment
and a switchyard located 2.5 km from the dam, relocation of 33 km of railway
line, construction of 35 km of new roads, and resettlement of about 17,000
people living in 34 villages.
2.03      Transmission lines (380-kV) from the Karakaya switchyard to the
interconnected power system, not a part of the Project, having a total length
of 1,300 km and estimated to cost about US$120 million, of which US$75 million
is in foreign exchange, would be constructed by TEK taking into account not
only the transmission of the Project's capacity but the strengthening of the
national transmission network. The construction of these lines could start in
1982 to be completed in line with the commissioning of the Project's generating
units. During negotiations, the Government has agreed to: (i) make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank for securing the financing needed to ensure
completion by TEK of the 380-kV lines connecting the Project with the power
system in Turkey not later than October 31, 1984; and (ii) provide the Bank
with a construction schedule and a financing plan acceptable to the Bank by
June 30, 1981.
2.04      The Karakaya hydropower plant would, chronologically, constitute
the second step in the long-range development of the power resources of the
Euphrates River in Turkey. The first step in the development of the Euphrates
River basin was the Keban scheme, which utilizes a 152 m head, and provides
the basic regulation of the Euphrates River. Ultimately, Keban will attain an
installed capacity of 1,260 MW, with an annual generation of 6,252 GWh. The
total capacity of the Keban reservoir is 30.7 km3, of which useful storage is
16.3 km3 or about 75% of the mean annual flow of the river. The total storage
of the Karakaya reservoir would be 9.6 km3 and its useful storage 5.6 km3,
i.e. about one-third the magnitude of the upstream Keban reservoir. Karakaya,
a single purpose hydropower project, is conceived for power generation
alone. In order to obtain its maximum power generation benefits, Karakaya
must be operated in conjunction with Keban. The gain in power generation



- 14 -
due to Karakaya would be 7,762 GWh annually, of which 83% is firm power
generation. The regulation effect of the Karakaya reservoir would be useful
at future downstream dams, but would not substantially influence the Euphrates
River flows, which are basically regulated by the much larger Keban reservoir.
Therefore, the Karakaya hydropower project would, in essence, process water
discharged through Keban turbines and additional inflows between the Keban and
Karakaya dams.
Status of Engineering
2.05      The development of the water resources of the Euphrates River in
Turkey has been actively investigated since 1962. In 1968, DSI engaged a
group of consulting engineers to study the development of the Lower Euphrates
basin in Turkey for the purpose of hydropower production and irrigation of
arable lands. Geological and site investigations of the Project have been
very thorough and found adequate for the type of dam to be constructed (Annex
2.1). A joint venture of Electrowatt Engineering Services Ltd. (Switzerland),
TAMS (USA), Societe Generale pour l'Industrie (Switzerland) and Dolsar Engineer-
ing Limited (Turkey) has been engaged for the project design and to assist DSI
in the supervision of construction and in procurement, manufacturing control,
erection and inspection of permanent equipment. The consultants will also
assist DSI and TEK during the initial operation of the Project. The assis-
tance will include making recommendations in solving technical problems,
in establishing operating rules of the plant and reservoir, and in making
reservoir operating studies for optimum power generation. The contract for
engineering services has been reviewed by Bank staff and found satisfactory.
During negotiations, the Government has agreed to continue to employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank for engineering services, procurement and
supervision of construction of the Project.
2.06      DSI usually employs a board of consultants on an ad hoc basis if the
necessity arises for any of its projects under construction. Although, well
known and experienced consultants have been engaged for engineering designs
and supervision of construction, in view of the size of the Project and the
potential risks, DSI has agreed to establish a board of experts independent of
the designers of the Project to familiarize themselves with the designs and to
advise it in the event of unforeseen problems arising during construction.
The establishment of such a board, whose members and terms of reference shall
be acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.07      In the Bank's initial review of the proposed plant design, the
adequacy of certain design features was questioned, especially the bottom
outlet facilities. DSI has revised its original design and prepared more
reliable solutions for the Project water handling facilities in order to avoid
problems such as those experienced with the upstream Keban project. It is now
reasonably certain that the Project is well designed. An undertaking has
been obtained from the Government that the Project hydro works, including the
dam, will be inspected regularly in accordance with sound engineering practices.



- 15 -
Furthermore, the Government has agreed to inform the Bank, not later than
December 31, 1980, about the nature and frequency of, and monitoring
procedures for, the inspection of hydro works and dams in its territory.
Project Cost Estimate
2.08      The estimated cost of the Project, excluding interest during con-
struction, is US$1,160 million equivalent, of which US$602 million would be
in foreign exchange based on the exchange rate at the beginning of 1980 of
US$1 = LT 70. Annex 2.2 shows in detail the estimated costs of the Project,
which are summarized as follows:
-----------US$ Millions----------
Local         Foreign         Total
Preliminary and Related Works       32.07           12.43          44.50
Civil and Hydraulic Works
(Contract No. 1)                  81.10         205.59         286.69
Turbines and Generators
(Contract No. 2)                   2.28         119.46         121.74
Electromechanical Equipment
(Contract No. 3)                   1.60          55.92          57.52
Engineering Services                 6.00            9.50          15.50
Land Appropriations                 59.92             -            59.92
Resettlement                       113.66             -           113.66
Subtotal                      296.63         402.90         699.53
Physical Contingencies              47.57          52.22           99.79
Price Contingencies                 94.31           25.27         119.58
Total                         438.51         480.39         918.90
Sunk Costs (1979 and before)       120.00         121.48          241.48
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                558.51         601.87       1,160.38
2.09      Cost estimates are based on the cost of the signed contracts and
early 1980 prices (para. 2.17).  Physical contingencies for civil works have
been estimated at about 20% on average to take into account technical difficul-
ties which may be encounterea during construction of such a large project with
difficult access to site, adverse weather conditions and unusually large gene-
rating units. Physical contingencies of 5% have been assumed for generating
units and electromechanical equipment. For remaining related works, land
appropriation and resettlement physical contingencies have been estimated
about 15% on average. Price contingencies were applied in accordance with the
following annual rates, which are considered reasonable for Turkey:



- 16 -
Year(s)                         Percentage
1980                               10.5
1981                                9
1982                                8
1983-85                             7
1986-87                             6
Price contingencies were calculated in dollar terms for both local and foreign
costs since the present exchange rates cannot be used for converting future
local costs into dollar values. The foreign costs quoted represent the total
foreign exchange cost and include the foreign exchange costs of goods and
services purchased both from abroad and locally. On the basis of these
estimates the cost of the hydropower plant would be about US$640/kW installed,
which is very favorable for a hydropower project having a capacity factor of
almost 50%.
Project Financing Plan
2.10      Including financial charges on loans, which are estimated at US$138.2
million, the total remaining foreign exchange requirements of the Project are
US$618.59 million. The remaining Project costs are expected to be financed as
follows:
-------US$ Millions----------
Local         Foreign         Total
A.   Project Costs
(a) Borrowings
(i)  Swiss Financing                             192.22         192.22
(ii)  Proposed Bank Loan              -           120.00         120.00
(iii)  European Investment Bank        -           110.00         110.00
(iv)  Italian Financing               -            20.00          20.00
(v)  Abu Dhabi Fund                               26.00          26.00
(b)       Turkey                       438.51          12.17         450.68
Subtotal                     438.51         480.39         918.90
B.   Financial Charges During Construction
Turkey                         -            138.20         138.20
TOTAL                                  438.51          618.59       1057.10
2.11      The Government and DSI have made arrangements with Swiss banking
institutions, manufacturers and consultants for financing foreign exchange
costs of the contracts for generating units, electromechanical equipment and
consulting services awarded to Swiss manufacturers and consultants. The total
amount of the secured Swiss financing is SFr. 508.9 million, which can cover



- 17 -
all foreign exchange costs of these contracts with an average interest
of about 7.7 percent and repayable in about 13 years including 5 years
grace. Out of this financing about SFr. 173.9 million have already been
paid for Swiss procured equipment and services. The Italian authorities
have confirmed to Turkey that Italy would provide a loan of US$20 million
toward partial financing of the Project, at 4% interest, with repayment in
12 years and 2 years of grace. Furthermore, the Abu Dhabi Fund has indicated
to Turkey its intention to participate in the financing of the Project with
a US$26 million loan. The proposed Bank loan of US$120 million and the
provision of a US$ 10 million loan agreed to in principle by the European
Investment Bank (EIB) would leave for financing by Turkey only US$12.17
million of the remaining US$480.39 million in foreign exchange cost of the
Project. The Turkish Government has agreed to open a letter of Credit in
the amount of US$7 million which would be used to finance the Project's
construction works before other foreign exchange financing becomes avail-
able. The financial charges on loans of the Project would normally come
through the Turkish general foreign exchange reserves. The total foreign
exchange cost of the Project includes US$29.62 million in foreign exchange
for goods to be purchased in Turkey.
2.12      The above financing arrangements are satisfactory.  The signing of
the financing arrangements with Italy and the Abu Dhabi Fund is a condition
of the Bank loan effectiveness. Since the Project financing plan requires
joint financing with EIB, appropriate arangements have been agreed upon to
cover disbursement and supervision aspects. The proposed Bank loan of US$120
million would be made to the Government on standard Bank terms applicable to
Turkey--17 years, including 4 years' grace period.
2.13      The local financing would be secured through annual governmental
budget allocations and arranged to be fully in accordance with the Project
implementation schedule. To ensure timely availability of local funds, a
special revolving fund account would need to be established. During negotia-
tions, the Government has agreed to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, for financing the remaining foreign exchange costs of the Project and
to provide, in its annual budgets, local funds needed for the prompt execution
of the Project and to establish a special account with an initial amount not
less than LT 500 million, to be replenished monthly, with a balance equal to
at least three months' local expenditure requirements of the Project as deter-
mined from time to time by the consultants and from which DSI may draw without
restriction on funds to meet local expenditures. Furthermore, the Government
has agreed to cover all Project cost overruns that may arise in carrying out
the Project and to assume the foreign exchange risks.
,Implementation
2.14      The Project construction officially started on October 24, 1976,
and is expected to be completed by 1987. The first three generating units
are scheduled to be commissioned in 1985 and the remaining units in 1986.
Basic preparatory works have been completed and construction of the diversion
tunnels is nearing completion. The construction equipment has been brought to
the Project site and all necessary facilities to main construction works have



- 18 -
been secured. Main hydro and electrical equipment is being manufactured and
its deliveries started in March 1980. A big storage facility is under construc-
tion at the railroad station about 30 km from the Project site for temporary
storing of the main equipment. The Italian-Turkish joint venture contractor
for main civil and hydraulic works had slowed down activities at the site
because of delays in advance and progress payments and concern about future
Project financing, that led to disputes between DSI and the contractor. After
a period of considerable tension and low morale at the site, both contract
parties met at a high level in November 1979 and agreed on ways to resolve
the disputes and speed up construction activities. During these negotiations,
DSI has resolved basic disputes with the main civil works contractor concerning
progress payments and penalties for delayed works. A new Project construction
schedule (Annex 2.03) has been agreed and opening a letter of credit (para.
2.11) would facilitate prompt payments for works carried out. It is expected
the agreements reached would enable the contractor to achieve the planned
level of construction activities.
2.15      DSI's headquarters services have substantial experience in carrying
out large hydropower projects. These services have all responsibilities con-
cerning the Project execution and financing. The Project consultants at the
site can only advise and assist DSI in various Project's matters but have no
direct responsibility for directing the contractor or approving its proposals.
Communications between the site and DSI's headquarters in Ankara are inadequate;
flights from Ankara to Diyarbakir (nearest airport) are irregular and telephone
connections overloaded. The existing DSI's site management is not well struc-
tured and organized so that substantial improvements are needed. Since a sound
project management is essential to the successful execution of the Project, the
Government has agreed to establish effective Project mangement, and to appoint
a Project site manager by December 31, 1980 with such responsibilities, quali-
fications and experience as shall be satisfactory to the Bank along with
adequate authority for solving site problems as they arise, within specified
limits, without having to seek DSI's headquarters approval. Furthermore, the
Government has agreed to inform the Bank of the qualifications and experience
of the person(s) considered for any new appointment to the position of the
Project site manager.
2.16      A Central Coordinating Committee for the Project has been estab-
lished by the Government with the Under Secretary in MOE as the chairman to
secure coordination of the various engineering and administrative functions.
The members of the Committee are representatives of the concerned ministries
and other interested agencies (Annex 2.4). The Government has agreed to
maintain in MOE the Central Project Coordinating Committee with such powers,
functions, responsibilities, composition, and terms of reference as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement
2.17      The proceeds of the proposed loan would finance part of the foreign
exchange costs of the main construction (civil and hydraulic) works and
relocation of railways and roads. The contract base amount for the main
construction works (Contract No. 1) including some related permanent equipment



- 19 -
is US$208 million plus LT 3,207 million.  The contract specifies fixed direct
foreign exchange unit prices for works and materials but allows for physical
contingencies and price escalation in local costs. Bidding documents for this
contract were reviewed by the Bank staff before their issuance and found in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. International
competitive bidding was carried out in 1976 in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank. Bids were received from joint-ventures, including German, French,
Italian, Austrian and Turkish firms. Advanced contracting of the main civil
and hydraulic works has been agreed since it was justified in terms of the
Project construction schedule and the Bank's earlier involvement since 1975.
The Project was initially appraised in November 1975, post-appraised and
updated in March 1976 and November 1977, and re-appraised in November 1979.
The contract for turbines, generators, inlet valves and accessories was
awarded in October 1977 to Swiss manufacturers for the amount of SFr. 316.64
million plus LT 40.9 million. Electromechanical equipment (Contract No. 3) in
the amount of SFr. 148 million plus LT 1,092 million has also been awarded to
Swiss manufacturers in order to use their offered equipment financing. A few
small contracts for the preliminary works have been awarded to local contractors.
Relocation of railways and roads within the Project's reservoir would cost
about US$15 million in foreign exchange. These works would be carried out
with the assistance of the Turkish Railways and Roads and the procurement of
materials related to them would be made through ICB in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. DSI is exempt from paying import duties,
except stamp duties on imported equipment, which were reduced in January 1980
from 25% to 1% of equipment costs.
Disbursements
2.18      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 45% of foreign expendi-
tures of civil works and 100% of foreign expenditures for materials and equip-
ment related to the relocation of railways and roads in a joint financing
arrangement with EIB. Retroactive financing has been agreed for the main
civil works from February 1, 1980 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US$10 million subject to EIB agreeing in principle to its
retroactive financing in an equal amount. The expected disbursements from the
proposed loan are shown in Annex 2.5. The closing date would be December 31,
1988, to allow for final payment of retention money.
Insurance
2.19      The contractor for the main construction work has agreed to provide
insurance from an insurance company acceptable to the DSI for transportation,
handling, storage, and installation of equipment and plant given by the DSI as
the main protection against physical loss, accidents, damages and injuries to
the Project works in the amount determined by the DSI. The insurance firm is
a Turkish firm approved by the DSI. Under normal conditions this insurance
must be in force from the time of delivery to the contractor until the return-
ing to the DSI of the equipment and related documents. The insurance policies



- 20 -
have been delivered to the DSI, as evidence that the insurance requested by
the DSI has been made. The insurance premiums paid by the contractor shall be
reimbursed as specified in the contract to the contractor with the exception
of contractor's profit and overhead expenses. Premiums and insurance beyond
the requirements of the DSI will be paid by the contractor. All conflicts
pertaining to the insurance and compensations due to contractor's or subcon-
tractor's activities, whether or not covered by insurance policy, will be
under the responsibility of the contractor, and the contractor shall protect
the DSI and his representative from all liabilities. The contracted Project
insurance arrangements have been reviewed and found satisfactory. The Govern-
ment has agreed to maintain the insurance against Project's risks in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practice.
Environmental Impact
2.20      Although Turkey does not have a state institution responsible for
ensuring that environmental factors are taken into account before projects,
including hydropower projects, are approved, DSI has taken account of these
factors in accordance with its normal practice, especially resettlement of
population. The Project area has a low population density and the total
number of persons who will require resettlement is about 17,000. At present
they live in 34 villages, of which only 3 have populations of over 1,000
persons. Within and around the Project area, there is a low-level economy
based almost exclusively on primitive subsistence agriculture. It is expected
that fair agreements on indemnification will be reached with the present
property owners. The aim of this indemnification is to provide the former
owners with at least the same economic situation they had prior to flooding of
their properties. The acquisition of land for hydropower projects in Turkey
is carried out in accordance with the General Expropriation Law. This Act
gives DSI the right to expropriate reservoir lands after permission is obtained
from the Ministry of Public Works. Under the law, a committee, composed of
local people representatives, land experts and members of the administration,
inspects and evaluates the property of each affected owner, then prepares a
land value report. Unit land prices, for each of the various classes of land,
are determined according to the American Land Capability Classification. If
the owner and DSI agree upon the value, the owner signs over the property and
collects the money due to him from DSI. If there is disagreement, it becomes
a matter for settlement by the courts.
2.21      The Ministry of Village Affairs has established a comprehensive
resettlement methodology for resolving problems arising due to dam construc-
tion. It specifies that dam construction and resettlement should be carried
out in a coordinated manner and that urgent consideration should be given to
the resettlement of people whose land will be flooded by the dam. In view of
the very delicate and sensitive nature of the human population resettle-
ment various institutions involved in resettlement operations are obliged
by the Prime Minister's order to assist the Ministry of Village Affairs in
finding an appropriate solution to resettlement problems and to perform
necessary duties requested by the Ministry. In connection with the previous



- 21 -
Keban hydropower project, no significant difficulties were experienced in the
resettlement of about 30,000 people in the four year period. DSI's commission
for the Keban resettlement has resolved about 95% of land and property indemni-
fication cases, without going to court.
2.22      DSI has just started solving the Karakaya resettlement problems and
the persons living on and around the dam site have already been resettled
without any problems. The local population expects that construction of the
Karakaya hydropower project will offer additional employment opportunities and
will contribute to the improvement of their living standards. As to the
matter of the human population resettlement policy, the affected population
have employment priorities on the Project and in the new cement factory being
built to meet Project cement requirements. The Government has started to
build schools and health centers to serve the population around the Project
area. Plans and provisions related to the resettlement of population appear
to be adequate, financially as well as otherwise; resettled persons will also
have employment priority in the area and abroad, neighboring villages will be
electrified, and new access road to isolated, larger, villages will be built.
The Government has arranged to prepare an inventory of the property which
would be submerged by the Project, and is initiating action for their valuation
to make compensation payments. A census of the families requiring Government
assistance in resettlement has been completed and indicated that only a
small proportion (about 6%) of the population had expressed a preference for
Government assistance in agricultural resettlement. At least 8 hectares of
suitable land would be provided for each resettled agricultural household.
Resettlement sites have been identified, and the Government plans to provide
those who will be relocated with accommodation and support services to enable
them to rebuild their livelihood. During negotiations, details of a popula-
tion resettlement plan and a program for its implementation were discussed
and the further course of actions was clarified. The Government has agreed
to make appropriate arrangements to relocate residents on land required for
the construction and operation of the Project's facilities in accordance
with a comprehensive plan of resettlement action and its implementation
program satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be prepared and furnished to
the Bank by February 28, 1981. The Bank will continue to monitor closely all
further developments in connection with the human population resettlement
and offer the assistance of its specialized services.
2.23      The ecological effects of the Project are not expected to be adverse.
The project area and surrounding countryside are treeless, an almost bare
land with practically no wildlife. Intensive archaeological investigations,
with the assistance of numerous foreign scientific institutions which have
taken place throughout Turkey during the last ten years, have not indicated
the presence of any artifacts or sites of archaeological or historic signifi-
cance in the area which would be flooded. The construction history of
the upstream Keban hydropower project has not shown any significant elements
which might have adverse environmental effects. DSI has engaged the consul-
tants (Electrowatt Engineering Services Ltd. et al) to study, based on the
terms of reference suggested by the Bank, the ecological consequences of the
Project, including human ecology, biotic, environmental and other points
having an environmental impact. The draft report of the study was received in



- 22 -
October 1977 and the Bank's comments on the report have been sent to DSI.
Although this study was not considered entirely satisfactory, it was agreed
that rather than requiring further studies, the Bank would try to arrange an
ecological reconnaissance by its environmental staff to identify problems, if
any, and help the Government in formulating solutions.
International Aspects
2.24      The Euphrates River originates in Turkey and flows through Syria
and Iraq. The utilization and sharing of its water resources have been
the subject of long-continuing studies and discussions, involving all three
riparian countries, in an attempt to reach an agreement. In October 1974,
the Bank submitted to Turkey, Syria and Iraq an outline of a proposed work
program, in three stages, which would provide the technical information
and background studies necessary to evaluate interim and long-term options
for the coordinated utilization and development of the water resources of
the Tigris and Euphrates. Stage I of the proposed work program consisted
of the preparation and testing of a computer simulation model for the Euphrates
River, which investigated different project operating principles, in order to
determine their effects on reservoir filling under different hydrological
conditions, at the same time satisfying the existing and expected water
consumption demands in the ten-year period (1974/75-1983/84). The model was
used to investigate different principles of water management during the period
of construction, filling and initial operation of the Turkish, Syrian and
Iraqi water storage projects. The nature of the model and the details of the
input data used to test the model are described in a draft report "Preliminary
Study of Reservoir Filling and Operation for Projects on the Euphrates River"
dated January 24, 1975. This report was transmitted to the Governments of
Turkey, Syria and Iraq in February 1975. The Bank has also expressed to all
three riparians its readiness to assist in the second and third stages of the
work program, if so requested. Moreover, the Bank would be prepared to assist
in extending the study to cover the period after 1983/84, provided that
required data are furnished by the riparians.
2.25      The study revealed that if the various interests of the riparians
are to be materially satisfied under all conditions which may be reasonably
anticipated, the major developments on the Euphrates River cannot proceed
without some basic principles governing their operation and a common under-
standing of these principles and their importance among the riparians. The
simulation method conforms to the current understanding of the various inter-
ests of each riparian during the ten-year period. Thus, for Turkey, it is
understood that the objective is to maximize power generation for the sequence
of projects along the main stem of the Euphrates River, until diversion
for the Lower Firat (Euphrates) irrigation programs begins; for Syria, it is
essential to meet irrigation demand and at the same time generate maximum
hydroelectric energy for replacement of more costly thermal generation within
the Syrian power system; and for Iraq, the essential interest is to obtain
sufficient flows distributed over the year in a pattern which will satisfy its
irrigation demands. On the basis of data and assumptions used, the study has
demonstrated that it is possible, by following certain operating principles,
to meet all these various objectives without adversely affecting the interests



- 23 -
of any of the riparian countries. Details of this study 1/ are summarized in
Annex 2.6. Map IBRD 12793R indicates the major projects on the Euphrates
River.
2.26      As a part of the evaluation of the Karakaya hydropower project,
a more detailed assessment was required of the effects of alternative reservoir
filling schedules and operation of the Karakaya reservoir on the downstream
riparians. Based on the simulation method developed in the "Preliminary Study
of Reservoir Filling and Operation on the Euphrates River", and using all
newly available information, particularly the hydrological data presented
in the Aide-Memoire entitled "Plan of Karakaya Reservoir Filling Operation"
prepared by the Government of Turkey, which was submitted to the Bank in
September 1975, a special report "Study of Reservoir Filling for Karakaya
Hydropower Project" has been prepared by Bank staff and consultants. This
study revealed that, without detriment to the interests of Turkey and of the
downstream riparians, the Karakaya reservoir can be filled within a period of
three to seven months, depending on actual water flows, and the operation of
the Turkish power plants could also be effected for maximum energy output
while maintaining an average discharge of 500 m3/sec at the Turkey-Syrian
border. This operating rule, called the "Rule of 500", would also ensure that
the existing requirements of the downstream riparians for irrigation and power
generation, as well as the anticipated growth in these requirements during the
period 1974/75-1983/84 would be met.
2.27      The study also developed operating principles for the reservoirs in
Syria and Iraq which would be expected to optimize benefits in those countries.
These operating principles are explained in Annex 2.6 and summarized below:
(a) The Keban and Karakaya reservoirs in Turkey would be operated
during construction and filling of Karakaya, as well as there-
after, in such a manner as to ensure a minimum average flow of
500 m3/sec as the Euphrates River leaves Turkey, with shortfalls
in any averaging period, not greater than one month, being made
up in the next period. This rule would apply until modified, if
required, by an agreement among the riparians in connection with
the implementation of the next large water-consuming project on
the Euphrates River.
(b) The Syrian Euphrates reservoir would have to be operated to pass
sufficient water to meet downstream irrigation requirements in
both Syria and Iraq, modified on a semi-annual basis, to the
extent of + 60 m3/sec, mainly to allow for variations in rainfall,
and Iraq's irrigation demand patterns and present storage capacity.
1/   The study does not include the new Ataturk multipurpose project, which
replaces the previous Golkoy and Karababa projects. Since the total
storage capacity would be increased from 16.27 km3 to 48.5 km3 the pro-
posed Ataturk scheme has to be tested in the simulation model to deter-
mine effects of project operating principles on reservoir filling under
various hydrological conditions at given water consumption demands.



- 24 -
(c)  Flows from upstream reaching Ramadi reservoir in Iraq in excess of
downstream irrigation requirements, would be diverted and stored
in the Habbaniyah reservoir to the extent possible and the maximum
reservoir level maintained at all times.
2.28      Turkey informed Syria and Iraq in January 1975 of its intention to
construct Karakaya, assured them it had taken special care that the initial
filling of the Karakaya reservoir would not adversely affect the normal river
flow downstream of the dam site, and offered to discuss these assurances.
Following agreement with the Bank on filling and operating criteria for
Karakaya, Turkey informed Syria and Iraq that during the construction, initial
filling and operation of Karakaya it will ensure that the flow of the Euphrates
River as it leaves Turkey at Birecik will average not less than 500 m3/sec,
and that the averaging period would not be greater than one month and any
shortfalls in one period would be made up in the immediately succeeding
period. Furthermore, Turkey invited discussions for evolving a tripartite
monitoring arrangement, which would extend the existing hydrometereological
network and exchange of information concerning the hydrological and hydro-
metrical data collected in the Euphrates basin, and for the better use of
common waters.
2.29      After receiving Turkish agreement on the operational criterion and
monitoring arrangements, the Bank invited the comments of the lower riparians
on the Turkish proposals and the suggested operating principles for the exist-
ing reservoirs on the Euphrates River. Syria expressed its readiness to
cooperate fully in seeking a quick and final solution to all problems concern-
ing Euphrates waters' use, but pointed out some differences between assumptions
used in the study works and its current plan, and objected to the construction
of the Project until agreement has been reached between all the riparians.
The Syrian comments have been studied by the Bank's staff and consultants and
the analysis made it clear that these comments do not represent quantified and
substantiated objections to the proposed basic operational criteria for
reservoirs on the Euphrates River. The Syrian comments and their analysis are
given in detail in Annex 2.6. Iraq has not communicated its comments on the
proposed operational criteria and, though recognizing that Karakaya is not a
water consuming project and could help to improve regulation of the Euphrates
waters, has opposed the Project until an agreement is reached on the long-term
sharing of the Euphrates waters. Iraq is also concerned with adverse operation
of the Euphrates Dam by Syria - a danger which exists irrespective of Karakaya.
In connection with the Balikh project (Loan No. 975 SYR) the Syrian Government
stated in a letter to the Bank that it intends to operate the Euphrates Dam
(Assad reservoir) in a manner which would assure that the requirements of Iraq
are reasonably covered, provided that adequate releases are made from the
Keban reservoir in Turkey. Moreover, Iraq will be able to protect itself
against such risk through the operation of the Haditha Dam project, which has
been started and which would be completed about the same time as Karakaya. In
the meantime no information has been received that either the Syrian and Iraqi
attitude toward the Project riparian issue has changed.
2.30      Based on detailed analyses, it is considered that the proposed
arrangements for the filling and operation of the Karakaya hydropower project



- 25 -
would not adversely affect the lower riparians. Turkey has agreed to follow
the operational criteria for Karakaya and has already communicated this assur-
ance to the lower riparians. It has also invited them to discuss tripartite
monitoring arrangements. In view of the above and the absence of quantified
and substantiated objections by lower riparians, the Bank made the unilateral
determination that the Project would not adversely affect the lower riparians.
Furthermore, the Turkish Energy Minister made a statement in the Turkish
Parliament (see Annex 2.6, Attachment 3) that Turkey would fill and operate
the Karakaya reservoir according to the Rule of 500, and the Government con-
firmed that the Bank could rely on this statement as Turkey's representation
for making the loan. However, to satisfy the Bank, and, if necessary, the
lower riparians that Turkey is filling and operating Karakaya in line with the
Rule of 500 an appropriate reporting system on the actual operation of the
Project and the Euphrates River flows needs to be established so that records
are promptly sent to the Bank. During negotiations, the Government has
agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank by March 31, 1981 a reporting system
satisfactory to the Bank for providing river flows, including criteria and
methods of measurement to be used to determine periodic mean river flows. The
Euphrates River flow data and related information would be furnished to the
Bank regularly.
Project Risks
2.31      Construction of the Project is a high risk job due to the steep
slopes and the instability, especially upon disturbance of the highly jointed
and faulted rock. The risks are manageable providing constant expert geo-
logical supervision is given to the construction process. The Project consul-
tants at site provide the required expert supervision. During the first years
of Project construction, geological conditions of the rock formation have been
found better than expected at the Project design stages. The conducted tests
of modulus of elasticity were found satisfactory for the selected type of
dam. The designs for the Project structures incorporate adequate provision
for earthquake accelerations or ground motion. Despite a high cofferdam and
large by-pass tunnels the recurrence interval of the construction period
flood of 25 years is not conservative. This can be accepted if the large
upstream Keban reservoir is operated during the construction period to help
prevent floods which normally have a return period of once in fifty to one
hundred years. DSI is aware of this and plans to undertake the required
precautionary measures during the construction period. While geophysical
construction risks are within reasonable limits, other risks are more
uncertain, such as availability of cement, construction steel, fuel, etc.
The contract for the main construction works provides that basic materials
(cement and steel) can be imported if they are not locally available. In
the present difficult Turkish economic situation shortages of construction
materials, goods and financial resources are likely. These matters have
been discussed with the relevant Turkish authorities and assurances were
obtained that top priority would be given to the Project in view of its
importance to the national economy. Reasonable precautions would be taken
to ensure the flow of resources and to establish effective Project site
management.



- 26 -
III. FINANCE
Accounting and Auditing
3.01      DSI uses "appropriation accounting"; a budgetary type of accounting
that identifies appropriation of funds by projects. Expenses incurred during
the construction period are charged against the appropriation with the balance
reflecting the funds remaining during the construction period. This account-
ing system is similar to the accounting system used by the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation. Technical assistance and training were provided to DSI by the
U.S. Bureau of Reclamation financed by the U.S. Agency for International
Development. Separate accounts for the Karakaya project are maintained
for budgetary control purposes and will facilitate transfer of assets on
completion to TEK. DSI's accounts are audited annually by the Government's
High Control Board acceptable to the Bank.
3.02      TEK has a satisfactory utility accounting system.  In 1965, the Bank
made a technical assistance grant of US$1.95 million to meet the foreign
exchange costs of studies and the implementation of recommendations for the
reorganization of the Turkish power subsector. In 1969, Stone & Webster
Overseas Consultants (SWOCI) devised for TEK a new system of accounts, budget-
ing and reporting, purchasing and stores procedures. In Phase II during
1970-1972, Arthur 'Young & Co. (AY) worked as consultants to introduce and
implement the proposed utility accounting system and to recommend a scheme for
revaluation of assets. Several key accounting staff were trained in utilities
in the U.S. in 1974-75. TEK's accounting system has improved significantly
though the system has yet to be used adequately for management decisions. The
audit provisions for TEK's accounts in the Loan Agreements of Loans 1023-TU
and 1194-TU are satisfactory to the Bank.
Transfer of Karakaya Assets to TEK
3.03      The TEK law provides for the transfer of the value of hydroelectric
assets constructed by DSI to TEK on their being brought into service; transfer
regulations provide for determination of transfer values by ad hoc transfer
committees. The first three generating units of Karakaya are expected to
be operating in 1985 and the full Project output of 7,762 GWh will be reached
in 1987. The assets of Keban were not transferred to TEK until two years
after operation; TEK benefitted from the revenues from the sales of power but
did not provide for depreciation, thus distorting its financial position. To
facilitate the prompt transfer of the Karakaya assets to TEK it was agreed
that DSI would transfer one-sixth the cost of the Project to TEK for each
successive 1,200 GWh generated by the Project in any year, until the assets
are completely transferred. The present policy of transferring hydroelectric
assets to TEK as government equity holdings in TEK would be reviewed by the
proposed committee of experts (para. 3.21) to determine the effects of
the present policy on TEK's income tax liability and on TEK's capital structure
discussed in para. 3.16, in establishing recommended policies governing the
transfer of these assets.



- 27 -
TEK's Financial Performance
3.04      TEK is the ultimate project beneficiary, when the Project's assets
will be transferred to it by DSI, on completion several years from now; thus
TEK is not immediately concerned with the Project. However, as TEK is the
Project beneficiary and the only source of revenue for financing generation
and transmission facilities, its financial performance is of direct and imme-
diate concern.
3.05      In the past lending operations, the Bank has endeavoured to promote
the concept of "user paying for service" and of securing for TEK an appro-
priate degree of financial autonomy, through a focus on rate of return which
would generate funds internally to finance a reasonable share of TEK's invest-
ments. The loan agreements require TEK to earn a return of 8% on revalued
assets. This is in line with the TEK Law, which requires TEK to earn an 8%
return on net fixed asset after meeting its expenses. However, as the manner
of computing the return and what constitutes expenses were not spelled out
either in the TEK Law or any subsidiary regulations issued under it, these
matters have been covered by provisions in the Loan Agreements with the Bank.
While the Government has accepted the principle of recovering from power users
sufficient resources to finance a portion of the investments in the power
subsector, as reflected in the 8% rate of return on revalued assets, it has
repeatedly urged that this objective should be achieved gradually over a
period of time so that tariff adjustments needed to achieve the agreed return
do not have a disruptive impact on an economy beset with high inflation.
3.06      As a result, ever since its creation in October 1970, TEK's finan-
cial operations have been marked by two features: (i) failure, by a wide
margin except in 1972, to earn the minimum 8% return on net fixed assets
required by the existing loan covenants; and (ii) a chronic shortage of cash
on account of continuing inability to collect its bills for electricity,
mainly from municipalities. The reasons for this state of affairs are
explained below:
(a)  the reluctance of the Government to increase tariffs adequately
and in time, even to keep pace with increasing costs. After
a 50% increase in July 1971 apart from the operation of adjust-
ing the tariffs for fuel costs increases in 1973 and 1974, the
next increase was only for 20% in June 1976. Substantial
increases were made in September 1977 (42%) and again in April
1979 (66%) and January 1980 (128%); these increases were mostly
offset by simultaneous fuel increases, significant increases
in wages and salaries, and the devaluation of the Turkish
lira;
(b)  the expensive generation mix of TEK, with a large dependence on
small, inefficient and fuel-fired plants, distant hydro resources,
and the delay in implementation of projects to harness domestic
energy resources. Owing to the tight power supply situation, which
prevailed during the 1970s, TEK has to resort to large scale combus-
tion turbine generation and generation from old, inefficient steam
plants;



- 28 -
(c)  significant increases in wages and salaries, which have risen from
about 11% of operating expenses in the period through 1975 to 16%
in 1978 (see Annex 3.1); and
(d)  the high level of income taxes payable by TEK (41.7% of taxable
income). Since the return is calculated after income taxes, TEK did
not get the full benefit of tariff increases, and only 58.3% of
TEK's revenues are available for computing the rate of return, the
rest being siphoned off by Government as income taxes.
For reasons explained above, despite substantial periodic tariff increases,
TEK's earnings in 1977 and 1978 resulted in returns of less than 4% for 1977
and 1978. The Bank waived in April 1978 the covenant requiring TEK to earn
the 8% on revalued assets, and agreed that this objective be met gradually
over time. It was agreed that the Government would increase TEK's tariffs
by January 1, 1980 to enable TEK to earn a 5 1/2% rate of return on revalued
assets for 1980 and increase tariffs thereafter to achieve the 8% rate
of return by 1982. On January 25, Government approved increases in TEK's
electricity tariffs, effective February 1, 1980, to an average of 280 kurus
per kWh which is acceptable to achieve the agreed 5 1/2% rate of return for
1980.
3.07      As the high inflation in Turkey and periodic substantial exchange
rate changes affect the revaluation of net fixed assets, and consequently
the extent of tariff increases, the Government requested the Bank to sub-
stitute a cash generation covenant for the rate of return covenant in Loans
1023-TU and 1194-TU. In conjunction with the Bank's consideration of the
Karakaya project, the Bank agreed in October 1979 to consider the request,
provided the Government take action to increase tariffs to achieve the
agreed 5 1/2% return on revalued assets for 1980, and adequate levels of
cash generation could be agreed upon.
Substitution of a Cash Generation Covenant for the Existing Rate of Return
Covenant
3.08      Both the rate of return and the cash generation covenants have as
their objective adequate cost recovery and generation of internal resources
for meeting a part of resources needed for future investments. In principle,
either of these covenants is acceptable. The rate of return concept has
been more commonly used as (i) it provides a standard measure of financial
performance, (ii) it reflects generally accepted principles of costing utility
services, (iii) provides an effective means, with proper revaluation of
assets, for compensation for inflation, (iv) it mirrors the concepts of
tariff regulation which are used in many parts of the world; and (v) it is
an accurate and objective test. The alternative internal cash generation
covenant deals directly with providing cash for financing the investment
program and is easily understood, particularly in terms of the financing plan
for the approved investment program. The major disadvantages of the cash
generation covenant are the normal "lumps" of annual investments that some-
times arise in the investments of large power plant projects which offers
incentive to defer expenditures and could delay needed construction; and the



- 29 -
cash generation covenant does not reflect the capital structure to produce
realistic depreciation to replace plants in the future because inflation has
caused much higher replacement costs. In actual practice, when one type of
revenue covenant is used in the loan agreements the other is also used to
check the adequacy of the covenant and to measure the borrower's performance,
although this practice is not in the covenanted terms.
3.09       The rate of return covenant, as applied in Turkey, has led to many
difficulties. While the principles for revaluation of assets have been
incorporated in the loan documents, the application of these principles has
created problems in regard to the asset base for computing the rate of return.
As tariff adjustments are proposed ex ante, the difficulties of projecting
inflation, and actual events, have led to an ex-post lower rate of return.
Moreover, the legal validity of revaluation has not been accepted by Turkey,
and the TEK law contemplates valuation of DSI assets transferred to TEK only
at the time of commissioning. TEK does not adjust its books as a result of
revaluation since the TEK law does not recognize revaluation; the calculation
of rate of return on revalued assets is only a pro forma exercise. Revalua-
tion of assets would still be necessary to ensure proper annual depreciation
charges under a cash generation covenant. The cash generation covenant would
focus attention on TEK's financial performance measuring directly the internal
resource generation for the expansion of the power facilities.
3.10       During the Karakaya loan negotiations, agreement with the Government
was reached on the principles governing TEK's cash generation. Since TEK's
cash generation is derived from assets constructed by DSI, the cash generation
objective would be applied to the total generation and transmission investments
in the power subsector. In addition, in computing TEK's cash generation, the
total debt service on TEK's loans, as well as the debt service on loans
incurred by the Government for DSI's power subsector investments would be
deducted. TEK's income tax payment to the Government in theory is a source of
financing power subsector investments, therefore it was agreed to compute TEK's
cash generation before income taxes. An initial level of TEK's cash genera-
tion of not less than 20% of the total investments of TEK and DSI in power
projects has been agreed for 1981, and increasing to about 35% in 1986 and
thereafter.
3.11       TEK is required under the existing Loan Agreement to furnish its
financial statements in April, and to submit financial forecasts in November
for the purpose of determining and agreeing on tariff actions to be taken to
meet the rate of return covenants. The forecasts to be submitted to the Bank
each November have not always been forthcoming. For the purpose of monitoring
performance under the cash generation covenant, it was agreed that TEK would
make a forecast of its internal cash generation and the investments of TEK and
DSI and submit the forecast to the Bank by December 31 of each year. The
Government presents its budget in November along with the annual plan to the
Parliament in the same month. Parliamentary approvals are generally completed
by February of the following year. This would enable the Government and TEK
to review the adequacy of the existing tariffs to meet the cash generation
amounts in relation to the planned investments of TEK and DSI in the power
subsector, and to propose and complete needed tariff actions by May 31 of each
year for achieving the financial results in that year. The procedures for
monitoring the cash generation covenant are described in Annex 3.2.



- 30 -
3.12      TEK's tariff increases effective February 1980 are estimated to
provide a return of 5 1/2% on TEK's revalued assets for 1980; if DSI's debt
service is included in the calculations, the rate of return is estimated at
6.2% because the interest on the DSI loans would reduce TEK's income tax
liability. The internal cash generation by TEK is estimated to provide 18% of
the planned investments of TEK and DSI for 1980. An analysis has been made of
the relationship between the rate of return and cash generation ratios, and
the levels of tariffs required to accomplish either objective for the years
1980-1986 in Annex 3.3. Annual tariff increases of about 8% would be required
to increase the internal cash generation of TEK from 20% in 1981 to 35% in
1986, based on the projected investments of TEK and DSI presented in Annex
1.10 and the forecast of TEK's sales in Annex 1.6. In the past, the actual
levels of investments were lower than the approved investments in the annual
program and, as stated in para 1.27, the investment plan for 1979-1986 may be
reduced. Tariff adjustments made to yield a desired level of cash generation
could in fact yield a slightly higher level of cash generation if the actual
investments are less than the planned investments. TEK's internal cash
generation is estimated to provide an acceptable 27% of the total planned
investments of TEK and DSI for the years 1980-1986.
Municipal Overdues and TEK's Liquidity
3.13      In addition to TEK's problem of internal cash generation being
inadequate to finance invetments, TEK has also not been able to collect
for electricity sold to the municipalities amounting to about 35% of TEK's
total sales. Municipal overdues were the result of two inter-related
problems. As municipal retail tariffs were subject to Governmental regula-
tion, delay in increasing retail tariffs, consequent upon TEK's tariff
revision, created a problem for municipalities. In connection with Loan
1194-TU, the Government agreed to adjust municipal tariffs promptly in
amounts commensurate with TEK's tariff increases. In the past few years,
the Government has fulfilled this commitment. The increased retail tariffs
were expected to enable the municipalities to pay TEK its dues and also
allow sufficient funds for their distribution investments. However, as
municipalities also provide other public services like water supply,
transport and gas distribution, the municipalities have diverted their
electricity revenues for meeting the deficits in respect of their other
public services. With only limited resources, municipalities are in turn
dependent on the Government for much of their financing. The Government has
had periodically to consolidate intrapublic sector debts, under which debts
and receivables of TEK were consolidated. Under Loan 1194-TU, the Govern-
ment also agreed to cause its agencies and municipalities to pay the debts
for power and services outstanding to TEK in excess of three months in
accordance with a timetable and a plan of action acceptable to the Bank and
TEK. In line with this undertaking, the Government took over municipal
overdues to TEK, more than three months old, in 1977 and 1978, and under
powers granted to it under the budget law, reimbursed TEK its municipal
dues outstanding for over three months from the taxes which the Government
collects on behalf of municipalities. The Government recognized that this
arrangement could be only a temporary expedient, and the long term solution
was to increase municipal revenues. A law enacted by Parliament in 1979 to
increase municipal revenues was vetoed by the President. Pending further
legislative measures, this problem will continue to be dealt with under the



- 31 -
Budget Law every year. During negotiations the Government agreed to explore
administrative measures to expedite its payment of dues to TEK on behalf of
municipalities to provide a timely flow of funds to TEK for the implemen-
tation of on-going power projects.
Power Subsector Financing
3.14      The financing of investments for generation and transmission facili-
ties in the power subsector is characterized by a lack of coordinated policies
and clear financial goals for the many financial institutions involved. As
is natural in a planned economy like Turkey's, the Government determines the
magnitude of all investments, including power subsector investments, in its
Five-Year Plans. The phasing of the investments and the flow of resources are
again determined by the Government in the annual plans and programs. Apart
from approving all investment plans, the Government has to mobilize the
foreign exchange resources needed, and even local funds, entirely in the case
of DSI and to a large extent in the case of TEK. Until recently, it regulated
the resources generated in the subsector, by controlling wholesale and retail
electricity tariffs. The amount of cash generation in the power subsector
is the end product of a large number of pricing policies and other decisions
of Government covering many institutions and operations. The extent to which
the power subsector really generates internal funds for expansion and is
effectively dependent on the Government budget cannot be precisely determined
amidst the existing welter of price controls, subsidies and taxes.
3.15      The Government also determines to a large extent TEK's expenses,
through its control of fuel prices (coal, lignite, fuel oil, etc.) used
in power generation. Until recently, there were no clear policies to
guide the Government in fixing the controlled prices of coal, lignite, fuel
oil and gas oil. TKI, the SEE responsible for production of coal and
lignite, has operated at a loss for several years. In fixing fuel prices at
uneconomical levels in the past, the Government provided a hidden subsidy to
TEK, and therefore to electricity consumers in the country. Consequently,
TEK's cash generation overstated the internally generated resources. Under
the agreements in Loan 1023-TU prices of fuel used in power generation were
to be established at levels adequate to provide an 8% rate of return for
TKI's investments in the Elbistan Project.
3.16      Another matter which blurs the real extent of cash generation in
the subsector is the transfer of hydroelectric facilities completed by DSI
to TEK as Government's equity (now about 50% of TEK's net assets) without
transferring also the debts associated with these facilities. The Government
remains responsible for the debt service associated with hydroelectric invest-
ments. This benefit is partly counterbalanced by TEK's liability to pay
higher income taxes because TEK does not get the benefit of the associated
interest charges on these debts for computing income taxes.
3.17      Rapid economic growth during 1960-77 resulted in a structural trans-
formation of the economy and the combination of rapid industrialization and
urbanization led to a rapid increase in demand for commercial energy and
electricity. Electricity consumption grew at the rate of over 10% per annum,
and the growth would have been even higher, if supply had not been constrained.



- 32 -
Since 1975, Turkey has suffered serious shortages of electricity, which
have hampered production, despite importation of electricity from Bulgaria and
more recently from USSR. While a part of the reason for this situation was
the absence of measures for energy conservation, and in particular the policy
of keeping domestic prices low, the situation is serious because of slippages
in the construction of generating stations. Presently, though the slowdown in
economic activity has mitigated the electricity shortages this has been more
than offset by the inability to use a third of existing generating capacity
which is based on oil, because of Turkey's inability to meet the soaring oil
bill.
3.18      Actual investments in the power subsector compared with planned
investments amounted to 63% and 92% in the first two 5-Year Plans, and 90% in
the Third 5-Year Plan. However, in recent years, due to high inflation the
achievement at the monetary level has not been equalled on the physical level.
Most of the problems that this sector faces are concerned with investments to
change the adverse mix of its generating capacity. The slippages in invest-
ments have been the result of not being able to secure the necessary local and
foreign resources.
3.19      The broad lines of the Fourth Plan's strategy with regard to energy
are sensible, and the measures taken to switch demand to domestic sources
appear appropriate. The power subsector's investments are being accorded
higher priority in the allocation of resources than was the case in the past.
While the Fourth Plan visualized that 18% of all investments would be in the
power subsector, in the first two years, the actual investments were more than
20%. The Plan targets for electricity production call for a 14.4% increase in
consumption annually. The current economic crisis and the steep rise in
international oil prices makes it unlikely that Turkey can sustain the high
growth it witnessed in the past. The Government recognizes that the Fourth
Plan macro-economic targets, and consequently the electricity consumption
targets are unrealistic, and will need to be significantly modified. It has
in fact done so, through its annual programs for 1979 and 1980. Consequently,
the projected investment program for TEK and DSI for 1980-86, estimated at
US$20 billion, including $2 billion for interest charged to construction,
will be scaled down. However, as the power subsector affects the economy
vitally, and has a profound impact on Turkey's balance of payments, the power
subsector will call for sustained large investments, to augment capacity based
on domestic hydro and lignite resources, not only to meet projected demand,
but also to change the existing generating-mix, heavily dependent on imported
oil. The accomplishment of this objective will be crucially dependent on
mobilizing needed resources to complete speedily on-going priority projects in
the subsector.
3.20      Recognizing the need for the SEEs to generate resources, and not
to be a drain on the Government budget, the Government has made a drastic
change in policy. It has removed many items from the list of "basic
goods", whose prices and services could be increased only by Cabinet approval.
The SEEs are now free to set their own prices depending on market forces,
except for fertilizer, coal/lignite, cargo rates of railways and shipping
lines, and electricity rates only for ferrochrome and aluminum production.
Budgetary support for operating deficits and recourse to Central Bank credits



- 33 -
for investments have been eliminated. The investment projects of the SEEs
would in future be reviewed by SPO for viability and conformity to plan
objectives, and the SEEs are expected to generate their own resources for
investments, even though some budgetary support will be required for invest-
ments in basic infrastructure like power.
Proposed Comprehensive Review of Power Subsector Financing
3.21      These measures are in the right direction and mark a significant
turning point in Turkish economic policy. Together with improvements in their
productivity, they should allow the SEEs to undertake effective resource
generation. However, as many agencies are involved in the power sector, and
their operations and financial policies interact and affect each other's
financial performance, it is appropriate to review the investment program in
the energy and power subsector, its financial needs, the relationship between
various agencies and their pricing policies, so that an integrated view of
subsector financing and policies could emerge. The Government appointed a
committee of experts, satisfactory to the Bank, to review the electricity
supply and demand forecasts, the investment programs of DSI and TEK, the
investment requirements for distribution, fuel pricing policies (including
economic costs of fuels) used in generating electricity, treatment of TEK's
income tax liability, the debt service requirements for hydroelectric proj-
ects, and other related matters. The committee, after reviewing these issues,
would recommend fuel pricing policies and electricity tariff levels sufficient
to provide internal cash generation for financing a reasonable portion of
future investments in the power subsector. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the committee's terms of reference and that an internationally
known pricing expert would be retained, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, to assist the committee in reviewing the methodology and analysis
of its work. The committee would complete its work by June 30, 1981; and the
Government would furnish its recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1981,
and after taking into account Bank's comments, would furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1982 a timetable of actions, acceptable to the Bank, for imple-
mentation of the recommendations no later than December 31, 1983. The terms
of reference for the committee's study are presented in Annex 3.4.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Power Market Growth
4.01      The Karakaya hydropower project will form part of the power develop-
ment program which is designed to meet the continued growth of demand on the
interconnected power system in Turkey. The trend growth rate of sales since
1965 has been 10% p.a., which is projected for appraisal purposes to increase
to 11.2% until 1986 and decline to about 9% thereafter (para. 1.19). The
methods used for the load growth forecast are described in Annex 4. To allow
for the possibility that the load growth might be slower, an alternative
forecast was also made assuming that all the figures in the main forecast are
10% lower.



- 34 -
Alternative Development Strategies
4.02      Even if completed on schedule generating capacity existing or under
construction will not suffice to meet the forecast requirements based on the
main projection through 1983. The analysis of forecast balances of capacities
and energy indicates that new generating capacity will have to be installed
to meet the continued growth of demand after 1984. Turkey's long term devel-
opment strategy is based on progressive exploitation of the country's hydro-
power and lignite resources for meeting future power requirements. The studies
by TEK and consultants of the identified indigenous energy resources in Turkey
have led to the conclusion that the Karakaya hydropower project is the most
promising new power generation development. The alternatives of lignite-fired,
oil-fired and nuclear-fuelled generating plants for base load, combined with
gas turbines for peak loads, were also considered.
Comparison of Alternatives
4.03      Given that Karakaya was the most preferred new power generating
development, the power system development costs of meeting load demand with
and without Karakaya were compared (see Annex 4). Three alternatives to
Karakaya were considered, based respectively on substitution of Karakaya by
the equivalent lignite-fired, oil-fired and nuclear base-load power plants,
supplemented by appropriate gas-turbine peaking units. The economic values
of the cost streams associated with Karakaya and each of the three develop-
ment alternatives were derived, the main variables being equipment, materials
and labor costs, fuel costs and load growth. The development program with
Karakaya was found to have the lowest present value of costs up to a discount
rate of 53.5%. Since the opportunity cost of capital in Turkey is believed
to be around 11%, this indicates that Karakaya represents the least-cost means
of meeting requirements on the main assumptions used for the comparison.
This conclusion was tested for sensitivity to the assumed changes in the main
variables and the obtained results indicated that the choice of the Karakaya
project is not affected by these changes.
Return on Investment
4.04      The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project was esti-
mated by comparing the Project benefits with the costs. The costs are the
attributable financial costs of the Project adjusted for taxes, internal
transfers, and sunk costs and converted into their economic values as shown in
Annex 4. The benefits have been taken as the economic value of TEK's forecast
revenues from incremental power sales attributable to the Project assuming
tariff rates as of April 1980. The IER corresponding to this tariff rates is
estimated to be at least 15.1%. However, the incremental revenues understate
the Project benefits since electricity prices in Turkey have failed to keep
pace with the rate of general inflation and it is considered that they could
be increased significantly without reducing demand. The tariff rate increase
to reach the TEK's 8% rate of return (Financial Covenant under Loan 1194-TU)
would result in an IER of 24.65%. Sensitivity tests showed that the rate
would be about one and one-half percentage points lower if capital costs of
the Project are valued 15% higher.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, the Government has agreed:
(a) (i) to complete, by December 31, 1981, a review of existing arrange-
ments for the coordination of the development and investment plans
in the power subsector, particularly hydroelectric planning and the
development programs of TEK and TKI, (ii) to make recommendations on
strengthening integrated investment planning and coordinating proce-
dures to be used for its power subsector and on measures to be taken
to ensure the timely execution of investment plans, and (iii) after
the Bank's comments, to implement promptly the proposed recommenda-
tions and measures (para. 1.21);
(b) (i) to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for securing the
financing needed to ensure completion by TEK of the 380-kV lines
connecting the Project with the power system in Turkey not later
than October 31, 1989, and (ii) to provide the Bank with a construc-
tion schedule and a financing plan acceptable to the Bank by June 30,
1981 (para. 2.03);
(c) to ensure that DSI continues to employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank for engineering services, procurement and
supervision of construction of the Project (para. 2.05);
(d) to establish a board of experts, whose members and terms of refer-
ence shall be acceptable to the Bank, to advise DSI in the event of
any unforeseen problems arising during construction of the Project
(para 2.06);
(e) to ensure that the Project hydro works, including the dam, shall be
inspected regularly in accordance with sound engineering practices,
and to inform the Bank, not later than December 31, 1980, about the
nature and frequency of, and monitoring procedures for, the
inspection of hydro works and dams in its territory (para 2.07);
(f) to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for financing the
remaining foreign exchange costs of the Project and to provide, in
its annual budgets, local funds needed for the prompt execution of
the Project and to establish a special account with an initial amount
not less than LT 500 million, to be replenished monthly, with a
balance equal to at least three months' local expenditure require-
ments of the Project as determined from time to time by the consul-
tants and from which DSI may draw without restriction on funds to
meet local expenditures. Furthermore, the Government has agreed to
cover all Project cost overruns that may arise in carrying out the
Project and to assume the foreign exchange risks (paras. 2.12 and
2.13);



- 36 -
(g) to establish effective Project management, and to appoint a Project
site manager by December 31, 1980 with such responsibilities,
qualifications, experience and adequate authority for resolving site
problems as shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore, the
Government has agreed to inform the Bank of the qualifications and
experience of the person(s) considered for any new appointment to
the position of Project site manager (para. 2.15);
(h) to maintain in MOE the Central Project Coordinating Committee with
such powers, functions, responsibilities, composition, and terms of
reference as shall be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.16);
(i) to make appropriate arrangements to relocate residents on land
required for the construction and operation of the Project's facili-
ties in accordance with a comprehensive plan of resettlement action
and its implementation program satisfactory to the Bank to be
prepared and furnished to the Bank by February 28, 1981 (para.
2.22);
(j) to prepare and submit to the Bank by March 31, 1981 a reporting
system satisfactory to the Bank for providing river flows, includ-
ing criteria and methods of measurements to be used to determine
periodic mean river flows. Furthermore, the Government has agreed
to furnish regularly to the Bank Euphrates River flow data as
measured at the Birecik gauging station (para. 2.30);
(k) that DSI would transfer to TEK one sixth of the cost of the Project
for each successive 1,200 GWh generated by the Project in any year,
until the assets are completely transferred (para. 3.03);
(1) on the principles governing cash generation and on the initial
level of TEK's cash generation of not less than 20% of the total
investments of TEK and DSI in power projects beginning in 1981 and
increasing to about 35% in 1986, and thereafter (para. 3.10);
(m)  that Government would furnish to the Bank TEK's forecast of its
internal cash generation and the investments of TEK and DSI for the
coming year and complete tariff actions by May 31 of each year for
achieving agreed levels of internal cash generation in that year (para.
3.11); and
(n) on the terms of reference of the committee of experts to recommend
fuel pricing policies and electricity tariff levels sufficient to
provide internal cash generation for financing a reasonable portion
of future investments in the power subsector, and that an inter-
nationally known pricing expert would be retained on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the committee in
reviewing the methodology of its work. The committee would furnish
its recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1981, and after
taking into account the Bank's comments, would furnish to the
Bank by December 31, 1982 a timetable of actions and implement
the recommendations not later than December 31, 1983 (para. 3.21).



- 37 -
5.02      With these agreements the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$120 million equivalent to the Government of Turkey for a term of 17 years
with 4 years grace. Retroactive financing from February 1, 1980 is proposed
in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$10 million equivalent. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness are: (i) the establishment of a board of
experts whose members and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank (para.
5.01(d)); and (ii) the signing of financial arrangements with Italy and the
Abu Dhabi Fund and the establishment of a special account to meet local
expenditures (para. 5.01(f)). The loan is expected to become effective within
three months of its signing.
April 1980



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
National Power Sector Statistical Data (1965-1978)
CONSUMER CATEGORY                         1965      1966      1967       1968      1969      1970      1971       1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
Sales (GWh)
Residential                             560       618       722       820        937     1,010     1,127      1,286     1,390     1,602     1,882       2,353      2,631     2,791
Commercial                              264       281       302       324        364       39(       4e7        5l,7      621       713       86o       1,015      1,129     1,198
Industrial                           3,080      3,470     3,834     4,273      4,860     5,327     6,070     7,005      7,721     8,200     9,781      11,693     13,075    13,885
-overnment                             163        174       206       230        259       302       342       393        491       525       566         616        655       685
Street Lighting                         116       131       147       163        188       193       200       208        217       222       251         296        325       323
Transport                               54         55        58        60         78        80        83         88        90        97       101         112        117       133
Total Sales               4,237      4,729     339       5,2870    6,6386               730       9,527    10,530    11,359    13,441       16,085     17,932    19,015
Losses (GWh)                              716        822       948      1,066     1,152     1,315     1,492      1,7'5     1,895     2,118      2,227      2,536      3,118     3,327
(96)      (338)      (492)     (621
Net Interchange (GWh)
Generation 1'GWh)                       4,953      5,551     6,217     6,936      7,838     8,623     9,781    11,242    12,425    13,477    15,572       18,283     20,558    21,721
Hydro                                2,179      2,338     2,382     3,175      3,445     3,033     2,610      3,204     2,603     3,356      5,887      8,375      8,584     9,360
Thermal                              2,774      3,213     3,835     3,761      4,393     5,590     7,171     8,038      9,822    10,121     9,685       9,908     u,974    12,361
Installed Capacity (MW)                  1,491     1,645     1,959     1,967      1,967     2,235     2,578     2,711      3,192     3,732     4,175       4,364      4,725     4,867
Hydro                                   50,       (g17      702       723        723       725       872        893       985     1,443      1,780      1,873      1,871     1,879
Thermal                                986      1,028     1,257     1,244      1,244     1,510     1,706     1,818      2,207     2,289     2,395       2,491      2,854     2,988
1 '    1 ) Tmport.
December 1979



- 39 -                                                                       ANNEX 1.2
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Interconnected Power System Statistical Data (1971-1978)
19 71        1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978
A. TEE
Sales (0GWh)
IETT                                   1,914         2,147         2,328        2,407         2,919         3,065         3,225         3,077
EO                                      569           692           724           702          745           924         i,oo6         1,029
ESHCT                                    391           499           541           562          639           693           701           687
CEAS                                      -             20            58           105           126          229           203           239
KEPE7:                                    -             29            80            62           98           ;27           169            45
Other Municipalities                   1,197         1,545         1,705        2,114         2,354         3,002         3,112         3,889
Induc'ries                             2,881         3,457         3,781        4,L19         5,OO         6,309         7,389         7,361
Vi' lages                                 60            75           127           162          272           286           408           570
Export                                    -            -             -             -             -               3          -             -
Total Sales               7,012        T1j,W          93           0,233         1283         14,b 14,21 3                16,597
Losses (!GWh)
Network Tossas                           434           483           600           588          606           747           841           923
Station Supply                           449           507           541          639           696           796           985         1,o6o
Total Losses                83            990         1,141         1,227         1,302        1,543         1,826         193
,eneratiori (GWh)
Total Supply                           7,895         9,454        l0,485       11,466        1R.485        16,183        18,039        18,880
Purohases from:
CRAS                                  22'           323           223          276           542           390           26o           _J4
KEPEZ                                   3             6             1          -             -             -             -              39
Oth-rs                                 16             1             3            1             2             1            57            48
Import                                 -            -            -             -               i6          338           49C           62i
Total Purchases             240           330           22977                       6             729 080                    912
Own  ene'ntivl                      7.655         ,1S24       10,258        11,189        12,845        15,454        17,2,0        17,)68
of whioh:
Hlydro                           1,-69        2,291         2,035         2,6o4         4,644         7,200         7,428        8,o0t
The-ma                          5,890         6,833         8,223         8,585         8,201         8,254        9,802         9,9C'
I Hydro                             S3            25           20            23            36            47            43            41
Insta' led Capacit, (Wf)
Hvdro                                    670           690           782         1,190        1,521         1,6l4         1,614         1,622
Thermal                                1 094         1,188         1,568         : 644        1,706         1,771         2,071         2.179
Total                           11 1,78                     2,350         2,834         3,227         3,385         3,685         3,801
, Hydro                             38            37            33            42           47            48            44           41
B. CEAG
Sal es ( V015
TFK                                      221           323           233           276           542          390           260           204
Municipalities and 'illages              226           264           309           336           399          453           531           577
Ir.istry                                 270           357           462          524           6,,i          790           90]           998
Ct-ers                                    50            67            64            46           41            42            5,            54
Total Saes                  77          1,01     1     1,068        1,182         1,763   _,675                        ,833
l.osses ' Wh)
Network 'osses                            24            28            36            46           4o            52            67            78
Station -apply                            25            30            46            44           41            40            46            49
Total Losses      4     9            58                  c2            90                          92         71<13 _         27
;eneratien  llSs)
Total Supply                             816         1,Y9         1,10          1,272        1,724         1,767         1,862         1, Co
Purchases                                 -             20            58           105          144           265           245           2 6
Own leneration                           816         1,049         1,082        1,167         l,580         1,502         1,617         1,7 4
of .'Wish:
hydro                                 392           631           378          544         1,034           954           965         1,0 8
Then al                               424           418          704           623           546           548           652           6 '6
% Hyd "o                               48            60            35            47            65           64            6o       
Installed Copacit'- (MWl)
Hydro                                    130           13.           136           192           192           192          192           1 2-
Thermal                                  106           1o6          io6            106            010         1o6           1o6           1o6
Total                                 23'           242          242        ""2"998          29829                      T 298F      "97
* Pydro                                55            56            5f            64           ( 4           64             -4           64
;/ From TEK and Tzi'ender,n Steel Plant TISD).
2' Include; TEK't luregir Fyiro Plant whicl' is operated by CTAS.
December 1979



_ 40 -
.AmI2 1.2
Page 2 of 2
TEYM
KARAXAYA HMDROPWER PROJECT
Interconnected Power System Statistical Data (1971-1978)
1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978
C. XEPEZ
Sales (GWh)                                  161           197           204           197           233           247           249            191
lotal Losses (h)                               7             7             7            10             11            13            15            10
,eneration (0Wh)
Total Supply                              168           204           211           207           244           260           264           201
Purchases                                  -             29            80            62            98           127           169            45
Own ceneration                            168           175           131           145           146           133            95           156
Installed Capacity (MW)
(Al' Hydro)                               26            26            26            26            26            26            26            26
D. MUNICIPALITIES
^eneration 'GWh)
Hydro                                     242            66            32            34            31            61            59            74
Thermal                                   176            82            98            95            57            92            93            89
Total                        418        *47              130           129            88           153           152         **73
Installed Capacity (MW)
Hydro                                      34            29            29            29            29            29            27            27
Therma)                                   116           115           118           118           118           118           118           118
Total                        150           144        1-7        17                  117           147           145           145
E. SELF-PRODUCERS
^-eneration (GWh)
.fydro                                     43            41            27            29            32            27            37            31
Thermal                                   681           705           797           818           881         1,014         1,427         1,68?
Total                        724           746        -  83, o47                     9           T ,01           4           1,720
-n.stalled Capacity (MW)
'Hydro                                     12            12            1             12            12            12            12            12
Thermal                                   390           4o'           '415          415           465           496           559           585
Total             402                      421       4    27      4     27          077                          571           597
SUMARY FOR TURKEY
.reneration ( GWh)
Hydro                                   2,610         3,204         2,603         3,356         5,887         8,375         8,584         9,360
Thermal                                7,171          8,038         9,822        10,121         9,685         9,908        11 974        12,361
Total                               9,781        11 242        12,425         13,477        15,572        18,23         20,558 21,721
%Hydro                                  27            29            21            25            38            46             42           43
Installed Capacity  MW)
Hydro                                     872           893           985         1,449         1,780         1,873         1,871         1,879
Thermal                                 1,706         1,818         2,207         2,283         2,395         2,491         2,854         2,988
Total                                             2,711          3,192         3,732                    4,17 5 4,       36 4,725       4,867
% Hydro                                 34            33            31            39            43            43            4z            39
mlart Factors
Hydro                                      34            41            30            26            38            51            52             57
Thermal                                    48            50            51            51            46            45            48            47
Overall                                    43            47            44            41            43            48            50            51
Maximum Demand
Interconnected System)                1,684          1,950         2,169         2,366         2,729         3,135         3,290         3,641
Installed Capacity Margin
MWl                                       894           761         1,023         1,366         1,446         1,229         1,435         1,226
3                                          35            28            32            37            35            28            30            25
Specific Consumption
'kWh/capita)                             299           257           276           292           331           389           426           441
December 1979



KARKAY%A   OPy< lE3WpI 2   E1 C
Thcrmal Rower P a,tt Ch-racteris'i-s and Operationa-' C-ts
Ira olled        Energy Capacity                      Fuel Heat Hate    Plant's Heat Rate           Operational Conta (Hen/kim) .      Csnmiaaioning
lopanity  It1I       .iWh lear)       Type of Fuel       (kcal/kg)            l,ral/kWh)           Fuel         Other         Total      Mo_th/Year
A.  LI I  T7_ l  MIIIy
TEK                                                |3
iozii                                    40 30o1                13')         Lignite              3,686              4,28i              94.80        57.60        152.40           l956
Si/ht-ar                                 60                     350          Coal                 6,639              3,998             073.05        74.6i        347.66           I956
Cytrlogei                               129)                    300           ('o1a                ,819.             3,39(             '?9.65         4.20        133.85           1956
Soa-A                                    44                     300           Lignite             3,345              2,874              45.30        28.94         74.24           1957
T-nctlei-A                             i29                    83o            Lignite             3,658              2,6 07              52.02       5.71         77.73        1956-65
Amnar i                                 63o                   4,200           Fmlel Oil           G,(6.5             2,203              169.40       22.13        191.53        1967-71
Hopa                                     50                     35(          Fuel Oil             9.452              2,-07             '74.32        39.48        213.80           1973
torso-Ts    )                            IJ5                    135          ,as )11              0, 300             4,215             405.06        22.94        428.o0        19'72-75
Seolisehlr  iT)                         3'0                     360           no 011              J,3D0              3,851             424.36        40.09        466.45        1972-75
Seyt-omer  -2                           300                   1,800          l,gnite              1,380              2,453              40,52        61.91        102.43           1974
Alia    9-T)                             120                    36O           ian Oil            10,30D0             3,430              330.80       14.90        347.70            1974
Hazar  .T)                               30                      90          Gas Oil             10, 300             3,59T)            420.00        59.06        479.06           1974
Other  T'                                 6                      IC           ,as Oil            10, 30              3,959                 _-                        -               -
Tunobilik B  -'                         3"C                   1,8o0           I ignt e            -,'70              2,349              60.53        25.71         86.24        1977-78
Seyitomer 3                              50                     900           t.igrite            ',8o0              2,453              40o52        61.91        102.43           1978
Tote' TRK             2,153(2,143)          12,421
CEA0
Iersot                                  106                     700          FPo   Oil          '0,000               2,529              170.30       21.80        192.10           1966
'.l1NT3'TPA-.ITlR :S                                                 10           Con' -'li
SRLF- PHCD;'CERS                            g38                   ,791            FIr. Oil
T8TA1 T 'KE           3,01q 3.00             15,02'
TP.I,n)r R C0SoNTRTJCTTON ANT) 
FUTURe' PLANT32 
Soon 21_-                               331                   305            Aignite              2,40o              2,359              68.88        2'.52         98.40         12/8o-4/81
Eibistan A-1                             341                  *,950           Lignl e             t,O50              2,408               69.72       29.88         99.6o            11/81
Yatagan A 1-2                           420                   ,020            Lignite             2,100              2,350              68.88        29.52         98.40          6-9/81
Ieother-r                                                       go 90                              -                   -                  -            - _                         12/81
Aliaga '' >`C                            6o           0         io            Uas Oil            10,000                 -                  -           -             -              9/81
Flhbintn A 2-3                           So0                  3,30 S         Lignite              1,050              2,4o8              69.72        29.88         99.60         5-11/81
Cayirhan 1-2                            300                   1,800           lignite             2,800              2,350               85.68       36.72        12?.40         9-12/82
Orhanei 1                              200                   1,200           Lignite             2,550              2,350               68.88       29.52         98.40            7/82
F'bistan A-4                            340                   1,950          lignite              1,050              2,408              69.72        29.88         99.60            5/83
Kangal 1-2                              300                   _,800          l.ignite             1,300              2,350              68.88        29.52         98.40         6-11/83
Y. Catalagni n                                                  go00          loa                 3,300              2,390              68.83        29.52         98.40            6/83
Yatagan A-3                             '10                   3,060           Lignite             2,100              2,350              68.88        29.52         98.40            1/83
Somn B 3-4                              330                   1,980          Lignite              2,400              2,359              68.88        29.52         98.40         7-10/83
Yatagan 2 1-2                           420                   3,531           Lign ite            2,100              2,350              68.88        ?9.52         98.40         6-12/83
Seyitomer B                              50                   g0!           Lignite              1,800              2,453              52.92        22.68         75.60           12/83
Orhaneli 2                              200                   1,200           .ignite             2,550              2,350              68.88        29.52         98.40           12/83
Can 1-3                                 6oo                   3,OO           lTgnitc              2,700              2,350              68.88        29.52         98.40         1-7-12/84
Saray 1                                 150                    900           Lignite              2,500              2,400              68.88        29.52         98.40            i/85
E'bistan B 1                            340                   1,950           Lignite             1,050              2,408              69.72        29.88         99.6o            7/86
Subtatan              5,53'                 32,580
Self-Produners                          149                     84o          Fuel Oal            10,OO0                -                   -           -             -              19-iC
TITA T-               072                   33,423
%/  As of rDecember 1979.
2/ Available.
3/ 1956 or before.
Reduced from 86 to 60 M11'.
53 MW added in 1979.
Source of Information: TEK and Mtinistry of Energy and Natural Resources.
GT . Gas (Combustion) Turbine
ITC = Combined Oycle
April 1980



-42 -                                                                     ANEx 1. 4
KARKAYA HYDROPOWE} PROJICT
Hydropower Plant Characteristics and Operational Costa
Installed      Annaul  Production (G         Type of      Operaticnal        Commissioning
Capacity (MW)    Average             Firm        Plant     Cost (Krs/kWh)       Month/Year
A.  EXISTING PLANTS
TEK
Almus                                   27            80                40         S             55.32              1966
Demirkopru                              69           190               100         S            23.77               1960
flokcekaya                             278           650               430         S            28.82            1973-76
Hirfanli                                96           300               180         S            43.31               1960
Keban 1-4                              630         4,600             3,800         S            21.99               1971
Kemer                                   48           135                65         s            34.32               1958
Kesikkopru                              76           180               110         S            25.49               1967
Sariyar                                160           500               330         5            37.80            1956-66
Hazar 1-2                               30           188               130         S            130.88              1967
Kovada 1-2                              60           261               190         S            30.00               1971
Tortum                                  25            85                68         5            35.75               1972
Cildir                                  15            30                30         S           181.93               1975
Dogankent                               33           152               115         R            38.97             1971-78
Caq-Caq                                 14            42                42         R            42.06               1968
Ooksu                                   11            65                55         R            42.14               1963
Ikizdere                                15           100                80        R             26.51              1969
Small Plants                            35            64                53                        -
Total TEK                 1,622         7,622             5,616
CEAS
Seyhan                                  60           350               343         5               -                1964
Kadincik 1-2                           126           622               390         R               -                1971
Yuregir                                  6            21               -           S               -
Total CEAS                  192           993               733
KEPEZ
Kepez                                   26           160               130         S
MUNICIPALITIES
Iaterconnected                          27            35                17
SELF-PRODUCERS
Interconnected                          12            30                20
TOTAL TURIEY              1,879         8,840             6,718
B. UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND
FUTURE PLANTS
Hasan Ugurlu 1-2                       250           900               820         S              |              9-12/1979
Dogankant B                             40           157               -           R                                12/1980
Suat USurlu                             46           273               206        S                               1-3/1981
Keban 5 2'                             157.5         621.5             305         5                                10/1981
Keban 6                                157.5         621.5             306         5                                 1/1982
Yokluce 1-2                             90           584               576         5                               1-4/1982
Keban 7-8                              315           435               -           S                              4-7/1982
Adiguzel 1-2                            60           280               150         S                               1-4/1982
Aslantas 1-3                           138           569               360         S                            1-3-7/1982
Oymapinar 1-4                          540         1,620               412         5                             1-10/1982
Hasan Ugurlu 3-4                       250           300               -           5                                 1/1983
Karacaoren                              30           142                84         S                                 1/1983
Tohma                                   12            67                50        S                                  1/1985
Kapulukaya                              51           190               100         S                                 1/1985
Catalan                                150           484               300         S                                 1/1985
Karakaya 1-6                         1,800         7,353             6,060         S                            1-4-9/1985&2-7-12/1986
Altinkaya                              700         1,632             1,236         S                              1-10/1986
Ataturk 1-4                          1,200         8,010             6,800         S                              1-10/1986
Camligoze                               16            88                60         S                                 1/1986
Derbert                                 56           257               200         S                                 1/1986
Gezende                                150            28               130         S                                11/1986
TOTAL                     6,209        25,3              1,1-55
As of December 1979.
2/  Assmed operation costs: 0.3% of civil works and 1.5% of equipment.
Keban units 5-8 would be capable of delivering up to 180 MW.
;  Exluding gain due to Karakaya (409 Gwh) in Keban generation
S - Storage hydropower plant.   R = Rune-of-River hydropower plant.
April 1980



- 43 -                          ANNEX 1.5
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Transmission Network Data
Additions by:
Existing              1979-1984         1985-1986
A.  TRANSMISSION LINES (km)
Voltage (kV)
30                                20,277                  29,126           10,066
154 (and 60)                       14,103                   4,768               868
380                                 2,855                  4,551             1,118
Total               37,235                 38,445            12,052
B. SUBSTATION CAPACITIES (MVA)
Voltage Ratio (kV/kV)
154/30                              6,453                   7,283            5,400
380/154                             1,890                   6,380            3,300
(220/154)
Total                8,343                 13,663             8,700
December 1979



Isge 1 f 3
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER FROJECT
Forecast Balances of Capacities and EnrgY
1979        198C         1981        1982         1983         1984        1985         1986
Sales (Wl)
TEK                                       18,282      19,500       23,o86      30,000       36,ooo       4o,966      46,4172      52,518
CFA. and Others                            3,523       3,583        4,339       4,339        4,339        4,339       4,339        4,339
Total Sales               21,80~/    23,D83        27,4257      1 9         U 4-0,339    45,305      50,511       56,857
tosses '1GWh)
Network looses                             1,000       1,083        1,313       1,677        2,075        2,385       2,674        2,993
Station Supply                             1,015       1,108        4,400       1,783        2,196        2,510       2 815        3,150
Tota' Losses               2,015       2       ,191  2,713       3           4,2718        7955       T5t97    6,143
Import (sWh)                                  1,05       '1,600)      '2,000)     (2,000)
Required Beneration (12h5)-                  22,765      23,674       28,138      35,799       44,61o       50,200      56,300       63,000
Macio  De-and (MW)                            4,o60       5,280        5,96o       6,960        7,960        8,950      1O,040       11,240
Plant Capacities (MW)
Hydro
aT7xisting Plants
TEK                                1,622        -,622       1,622        ' ,622       1,622       i_622        1,622       1,622
others                               257          257         257          257          257         257          257         257
Subtotal                   I,879       1,879        1,879        1,879       1,879        l,879        1, 8799
s(5 Fut-ure Plonto
HSsan lJgurlu 1-2                    250          250         250          250          250         250          250         250
Dog-nkent 3                           -            40           4o          40           40          40           Lo          40
S-at Jgarl                            -            _           46           46           46          46           48          46
Keban 5                               -            -          157.5        157.5        157.5       157.5        157.5       157.5
Keban 6                               -            -            -          157.5        157.5       157.5        157.5       157.5
Kokluce 1-2                           -            -            -           90           90          90           90          90
Keban 7-8                             -            -            -          315          315         315          315         315
Adiguzel 1-2                          -            -            -           60           60          60           6o           60
Aslantas 1-3                          -            -            -          138          138         138          138          138
Oymapinar 1-4                         _            _            -          54o          540         540          540         54o
Hasan Ugurlu 3-4                      -            -            -           -           250         250          250         250
Karacsoren                            -            _           _            -            30          30           30          30
Tohma                                 -            -           -            -            -           -            12          12
KapuluXaya                            -                         -                                                 51          51
Catalan                               -            -            -           -                                    150         150
Karakaya 1-3                          -            -            -           -            -           -           900         90o
Karakaya 4-6                          -            -            -           -            -           -            _          9oo
Altinkaya                             -            -            -           -            -           -            -          700
Ataturk 1-4                           -            -            -           -            -           -                     1,200
Ca=ligoze                             -            -            -           -            -           -            -            16
Debrent                               -            -            -           -            -           -            -56
Gezende                                            -           -            -            -           -            -          150
Subtotal                     250         290          493.5     179          2,074        2,074       3,187        6,0
Total Bydro                2,129       2,169        2,372.5      3,673       3,953        3,953       5,o66        8,o88
Thermal
Exhisting Plants
TEK                                2,143        2,143       2,143        2,143        2,143       2,143        2,143       2,143
Others                               862          862         862          862          862         862          862         862
Subtotal                   3,005       3,005        3,005       3,005        3,005        3,005       3,025        3,005
b) Future Plants
Sca B 1-2                             -           165         330          330          330         330          330         330
Elbistan A-1                          -                       34-          340          340         340          340         340
Yatagan A 1-2                         -            -          420          420          420         420          420         420
Geothermal                            -            -            15          15           15          15           15           15
Aliaga, GTC                           -            -            60          6o           6o          63           60           6o
Elbistan A 2-3                        -            -           -           680          680         683          680         680
Cayirhan 1-2                          -            -           -           300          300         300          300         300
Orhaneli 1                            -            -           -           200          200         200          200         200
Elbistan A-4                          _-                                    -           340         340          340         340
Kangal 1-2                            _            _           _            -           300         300          300         300
Y. Catalagzi B                        -            -            -           -           150         150          450         150
Yatagen A-3                           -            -           -            -          210          210          210         210
Soma B 3-4                            -            -           -            -           330         330          330         330
Yatagan B 1_2                         -            -           -            -           420         420          420         420
Seyitoser B                           _-                                    -           150         150          150         150
Orhane'i 2                            -            -           -            -           200         200          200         200
Can l-2                               -            -            -           -            -          600          60o         600
Saray 1                               -            -           -            -            -           -           150         150
Elbistan S-1                          -            -            -           -            -           -            -          340
Self-Producers                        -            -          140          140          140         14           14o         140
Subtotal                     _- 1435                                                      5 ,4,55 W5,15 W7
Retired Thermal                       _            _           _            -          (189)3/     (792)        (792)        (792)
Total Thermal              3,005       3,170        4,310        5,490       7,401        7,398       7,548        7,888
Total Installed Capacity (MW)                 5,134        5,339       6,682        9,163      11,354       11,351      L2,614       15,976
Installed Capacity Margin
PB                                        l,074           50          772       2,203        3,394       2,401        2,574        4,736
21           1           11          24           30           21          20           30
1/  Sales and losses reflect actual values for the first nine month. of 1979.
7'  Required energy for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981 are 25,320 GWh, 27,120 GWh and 33,400 GWh respectively (TEK's estimates).
3/ Petired Plants:  Catalag2i  129 Kg   1j/1983            Tlntbilclr A       64 MW   l/1984
Silahtar    6o MW   1/2983           {'s Tirbineo       32 MW   1/1984
1Tmir       60 lw  1/L984             Mmnloipalities   1l8 MW   1/2984
Self-lyoducers   329 121  1/1984
Dc--bter 1979



000010    or-0000000Y2 000000-00000000000000.-..-o               coo'    0  cc..o.z   00.'.  oocom..-oamo'oo.o..00 0-                000
'100      001.100    001'0O00O00Oo 00CoOo 0000000,000- - 00-00-0000        .,0 --    0.000- -.0-000..,,'.  0044000000000-00>0'.!               00                            '000 0-0' 0' 000.00
00'       0-014                        00          '$0                                                             ..
0000(00    04000000000   tOO,.0   .40000'.0  ->  000              000'0-    00                         .0.-.0-0   .-.  0.0             fL                         0.00&00-50000000
000010    00-000.00>0000000 0004'0.00-0'            ('00        00flbC    000.Z.or   000-'   00040-                                                         0000000000    0,0
004      0000-0000000000000M000.000000.                          OJO     0-0000.'0- 0000.. 000.40 0000 000                       404>                          0'.- 000-000040000-
H         0000      0000000000000000-00000000010>0-            K                                    .'.0,                      'K>                     00                             -<      K
0000010    000-000000400.0000000                     0'0-       00014     0  .0.00.0000  0000.  00                  (.0000        CC       000 000 00000000040000                000'
00.114    000.0-00000000000000-JO   00000000                     00014     0000..0- 000'-c00 00000000000                          .00004    00.0' 0'00 000000000,00040000>, 0 0--.
         0017      00  0-o00L0000J00000-                     fl          000017         0000000           00                  K                                                     <      K
00000     00-00,0.-.000000000 000-0                 I            0t 0000       00000'-  '-0-40-  0                    >0          .of0.      21?92Z20#t00>00.0Q
0000                                                0.4                    0000.
000001    0000      00 -'00 oO 0000000000400-                  000                    00    0004   --0000                         ..         cfr       r{L...K'-.o.i0.ot'.o>.,o00           000
000                                                            I"                                                                               .0                                                          00
000      0-.        00000-000000000-000000000  000000  00                   '0L               -.00 040000 000 0000000000-7                                                  .00.0000400. 0 0 0o.00
00                     0.000                                                             00          000000'                                          0'00         00
I                                                I.-                                                                                                                           ..0-           00
0   00000000  .00-0.0.                    100.-       -         -  0 0-0 00000                        10-00
0000      00000000000.00000,  00000000000                                  00                                                               00                                     000.
000       00000     00-00000-000000000                         22          000V0        '000000  0000  0000000                               000-        00-00-0-0-0000  00000000
00                C00                                                                                                                  0                                                            000           00
0000      00.000 010000000, 0000                    j7.1        90017          0-000.00  -'000                                                  0  0000000                       L.
2                                                                                                                                       I                                                            10
0   10                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
00000  00004                                         22.         22   2.72                                           V             00-   0 00 000000000000000000-
000000000000000000000000                                                  00000000000000
000    00"00"                                        K           0000017.04                                                        0-00                                                           2
4                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
000010  0                                            2>2.    .-.oo.--.-o ooooooooooooooooo                                                       00000000000000000
0000    0  00000000000000000 00                                    00000-                                                         00000-   0                                                     01
000                   00t    00                                            L           0000001700                                           K            00-00                                            IA
fl           I        0'                                                                                                                                                                                                0001
10                                                                                                                                                                                                                  000
001                                                                                                                                                 001
o                 00000                                                  2                                                                           &SI2                                                           100
14                                               0                                                                  00                                                            0           000
00                0000   00000000000000000000                                            .000000000000 000000000000                                             00000000 0000000000000                              010
2.1          t                                                 [00                                                                          00040                                              -           1000
000      0000                                                  100         OOf-0)                                                 0-        '00-j&                                             6              0
0-o-4oo                                                                                                                 00                                                           00          410
(.00
2
00    00                  -0                      000            .     00
00    00                  00                                                               00
0000000        00           -0-0000  00                         ('0000          00
010   .000   .00000    0-000000         0022            .0                        00    00000-              0
0000          -       '"'                       00     0  0000  000  00         0                                                 00000    0-    00.000         2
>      2   ooJ-+'1,    .0100000000
00   000000    00000.,  00                1.   0000    00,000  0-   00--                                                    00000-0.
000.        000000100000000-0000000   .0000.004.                                   000000000-00100004.00-004.                                        000.  0000000  0000  1000o.0000
00        0000000        0-001000.  10  100.  0                                   00      00001000000  00  000-                                                    00  0'  00-01
00  0000.00   10001010400                                  0     0   0001   0  000000000                                    00000000000.00000000000  0
0000000100000 1000-.4.0 00-                   000  00      010101000001000000000 00o-.0000000                                   ''000  ooo0000000o00   0.0   00
101000100010101000   00001000>                 10  00      1000000001o.010000000000 0000000-0000                                0-00 '.'00 00.'.000o1000000000   00-
000400    0010001040000.0.000010010,000000000001                 0100104.    100000-0000000.400100000400.000-000                  00004      0...  000001000000000  .-0000.00000
010.00      0000000000000000 00000-0009000000                   0-             0000000000  .00000o.000000                                       >00000-00-00
00000     00001000000000012>001000000000000                    [00              00000000002.00100000000  01-                                    000  -0000   00.00000-000000                     0000    0-
    01'(.2'                                               0



ANC 1. 6
- 46                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 3
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Forecast Balances of Capacities and Energy
1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
.verage Hydro Year ('Wh)
Hydro                                       8,840        9,495       10,192      13,179       15,055       15,343       18,709       30,931
Thermal                                    15,022       15,072      17,024       21,924       29,083       36,319       4, 436       43,061
Total                     23,862       24,567       27,216       35,103       441937       51,662        o,15        73,992
'."agin
'4Wh                                        1,097          893         (922)        (696)       (472)       1,462        3,845       10,992
5           4           (3)          (2)          (1)           3            6           15
--y Year ''i'm)
Hydro                                       6,718        7,2(5       7,752        9,201        9,890        9,974       13,076       21,947
Thermal                                    15 022       15,072      17 024       21,924       29,083       36,319       L1,436       43 061
Total                     21,740       22,337      52776         31,125       3,973        46,293       54,512       6
'argin
C.Wh                                       !1,025)     (1,337)      (3,362)      (4,674)      '5,637)      (3,907)       1,788)       2,008
(5)         (6)         (14)         '15)         p14)          (8)          (3)           3
-AR's Estimates -
TEK's sales                                18,282       19,500      22,164       26,400       30,800       34,500       38,300       42,500
-, , r1ns
Average Year
'(4h                                    1,097          893         ( 0)        2,904        4,728        7,928       12,017      21,010
<0                                           5            4           (0)           8           11          15           20           28
2ry Year
4Wh                                    '1,025)      '1,337)      (2,440)      (1,074)      ( 437)        2,559        6,384       12,026
5,                                          '5)          '6)         (10)          (3)         (1)           6           12           18
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates in view of the current Turkish economy situation and its
near-term prospects.
-,nember 1979



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Forecast of TEK's Electricity Sales
1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984          1985         1986
MUNICIPALITIES                     9,092        9,326        11,782       13,400        14,900       16,100        17,500        18,900
IETT                         4,000         4,100        4,700         5,350         5,900        6,400         6,900        7,400
EGO                           1,100        1,150         1,250        1,450         1,600        1,750         1,900        2,100
ESHOT                           90o          950         1,100        1,200         1,350        1,450         1,550         1,650
Others                       3,092         3,126         4,732        5,400         6,050        6,500         7,150        7,750
VILLAG ES                            600          724         1,043        1,320         1,660        2,030         2,450         2,940
I/                                                                     2
INDUSTRY -                         7,500        8,150         8,800       13,483-/      16,900       19,696        22,802       26,348
Small                           850          900         1,000        1,200         1,500        1,700         i,850        2,040
Large                         6,650        7,250         7,800       12,283        15,400       17,996        20,952       24,308
IRRIGATION                           190          200           261          297           340           390          440           480
CONCESSIONARY POWER
COMPANIES                          9oo        1,100         1,200        1,500         2,200         2,750        3,280         3,850
TOTAL          18,282        19,500       23,086        30,000       36,ooo        40,966        46,472       52,518
/ The appraisal mission estimated lower increases in municipal and industrial consumption
after 1980 (see Annex 1.6, page 3).
|  Expected industrial production recovery.
SOURCE: TEK's Planning Department
December 1979



'!'URKI
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Existing and Projected Major Industrial Loads
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984       1985        1986
A, EXISTING MAJOR INDUSTRIAL
LOADS (in GWh)
Nuh Cimento (Cement Plant), Istanbul                    50          50          50         50          50          50          50
Metallurli (Metal Industry), Izmir                     125         125         125        125         125         125         125
MKE tHeavy Machine Plant), Krikkale                    150         250        835         835         835         835        835
Alsan 'Aluminum), Seyclisehir                          500         500         500      1,000       1,200       1,200      1,200
TKI 'Coal), Zonguldak                                   50          50          50         50          50          50          50
Erdemir !Iron Works), Zonguldak                        325         325        325         325         325         325        325
T.D.C. (Iron and Steel), Zonguldak                     270         270        560         560         560         560        560
'.L.I. 'Lignite), Tuncbilek                             80          80         80          80          80          80         80
Azotsan 'Fertilizer), Kutahya                          160         16o         565        565         565         565         565
T. Cimento San (Cement Plant), Ankara                   60         115        115         115         115         115         115
Dogu Insaat 'Tunnel Construction), Urfa                 50          50          50         50          50          50          50
Aliaga (Petrochemical), Izmir                          200         200        200         200         200         200        200
Cinkur 'Zinc and Lead), Kayseri                        183         183        183         183         183         183         183
Ferro-Crom (Ferro-Chrome), Elazig                      150         150         150        150         150         150         150
Cimento (Cement), Canakkale                             40          4o          40         40          40          40          40
Others                                                 850         850        850         850         850         850        850 s
Total                                     3,243       34,367                 5,176       57B         5,378       5,378
B. PROJECTED MAJOR INDUSTRIAL
LOADS (in CWh)
Pendik 'Ship Yard), Istanbul                           361         397        427         436         441         445        450
D. Palet (Construction Equip.), Elazig                  80         160        160         160         160         160         160
D.A. Celik (Steel), Ankara                             280         300         380        45o         450         450         450
Filyos (Ferro-Silicone), Zanguldak                      90          90         90          90          90          go          90
Tumosan (Motor industry)                                70          70          70         70          70          70          70
Ferrokrom((Ferro-Chrome), Elazig                       400         400        400         600         6oo         600         600
Igsas (Fertilizer), Istanbul                            55          55         55          55          55          55         55
Peteter (Chemical), Canakkale                          110         110        110         110         110         110        110
Temsan (Electromechanic), Aak                           30         120        120         120         120         120         120
Cimento (Cement), Canakkale                             56          56          56         56          56          56          56
Petlas (Plastic)                                        70          70          70         70          70          70          70
Cukuroua Lesikend AS (Steel), Aliaga                    -          210         240        300         420         48o         48o
Bilecik Organize San                                    -           -         200         200         200         200        200
Aksaz 'Military, NATO), Mugla                           -           -           20         40          50          50          50
Taksan 'Takimtergablars), Kayseri                       -           -           4o         60          go          90         go
Temsan 'Electromechanic), Diyarbakii                    -           -           30        120         120         120         120
Aliaca 'Petrochemical), Izmir                          240         610         770        770         770         770         770
Adiyaman Cimento 'Cement)                               20          20          40         50          80          80          80
Sandeli Dogmefab 'Iron Plant)                           -           -          6o          60         120         180        200
Keskin Kalip Fab                                        _           _           20         40          60          60         100
Corun Agirmak FB (Heavy Machinery)                      -           -           l'         30          60          60         120
Kayseri Kesici Takim FB                                 -           -           10         20          50          50         60
qaziantep Macina (Machines)                             -           -           10         20          40          40          60
Kulu is Makinalari 'Machine Construction)               -           -           30         60         120         120         150
Total                                     1,662        268        3,43       3,987          0        4,526       4,711
De- m,.-a&-  1972



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Rural Electrification Program, Performance and Plans
Actual
Number of Villages         Estimated Cost         Funds Provided         Expenditure         Number of Villages         Approximate Cost
Year                  Programmed                LT million             LT million            LT milliDn             Connected            oer village LT lOOOs
1964                       147                      16.60                  14.039                 8.16                    2                         _
1965                       165                      20.30                  22.005                14.70                  105                     138.8
1966                       250                      23.10                  30.266                23.06                  123                     187.4
1967                       261                      32.40                  30,266                28.27                  161                     175.7
1968                    1,112                      202.32                 200.406                72.29                  315                     229.4
1969                     1,442                     302.20                 126.000               143.24                  374                     382.9
1970                       227                      45.4o                 115.406               222.17                  667                     330.0
1971                       319                      60.70                 150.778               127.00                  510                     249.o
1972                     1,646                     398.87                 237.393               229.10                  965                     237.4
1973                     1,747                     466.06                 270.304               332.98                  880                     378.3
1974                     1,507                     500.05                 421.488               403.70                1,237                     326.3
1975                     1,515                     935.00                 895.957                843.13               1,515                      556.5
1976                    2,734                    1.568.00               1.484.416              1.591.30               1,632                     975.0
1977                    2,669                    2.289.33               2.152.662              1.575.06               1,980                     795.4
1978                     3,664                   3,169.00               2.000.000              2.062.00               1,747                   1,177.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
(in 1979 LT millions)
Village                                                               Cost
Year              Number of Villages          Estimated Cost          State Budget          Contribution         1 Krs. Sales Tax           Other Sources          per Village
1979                     3,049                    4.ooo                  4. ooo                   -                   150.00                       -                  1.311
1980                    2,500                     5.000                  4.830                    -                   170.00                       -                  2.000
1981                    2,500                     6.225                  5.975                    -                   250.00                       -                  2.500
1982                    2,500                     6.225                  5.925                    -                   300.00                       _                  2.500
1983                    2,500                     7.500                  7.150                    -                   350.00                       -                  3.000
1984                     2,500                    8.750                  8.350                    -                   400.00                       -                  3.500
1985                     1,151                    4.028                  3.528                    -                   500.00                       -                  3.500
December 1979



K-NOBSm  10
-22-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pge l oP 
TURBIS
KMAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Developsent Progr-T Costs (LT Million)
Total
1979         1980          1981          1982          1983          1984          1985          1986              1979-1986
DSI - HydropooOO ProjeCts
Hason UOrol1 1-0                LC                 700                         -             -                                  -                    -                    7C
FC                  80                                                                                                                    j8c
00      -m   - 5-F
79              1,0                            -            -                           - 
Dganket B                       LC                  15            1o0          -                           -                                                               25
FC                  95            95         -g -                                 -        _                                              190
T                 110          l15            -                    -        _                         - _                                o25
Soot Ugurl                     LC                 300           175           100           -             -             -
FC                  88           588           189           --5
T  -7-3  2139~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                -                      .
rba- 5-8                        LC                  20            20           -                                                                                           40
FC               18_0            94,0          -                           --9
Kokl... l-2                     LC                 220           500           710           235           _             -             _                                :.6' 
FC                 -             400           235           500           -                                                            - :1,35
T                ;-~ -900                    945           735           -             -                           -                  2,830
Adigoorl 1-2                    LC                   2            10            35           200           103           -             -             -                    35
FC                 _ -           329           470           141           lo                         _5 _                                33"
T9                  2          739            503          3790            1                                                              0
Aslanta- 1-3                    LC                 120           140           100           100           -             -4
FC                 470           800          470           470           -             -                    -         _213
T                 590           940           570           570           -            _             _             _                  27^
Oysapi-ar 1-4-                  LC               1,090           840           840           180          -             -             -             -                   2,950
Pa                 520         1,790        2,165           860            -            -             -             -                  5,333
T               1,610        2,630         3,005         -.0o             -            -             -                                H,285
Hssat Ugurlo 3-4                LC                 -              10            45            45           -            -
Pa                  95          615           330           370                                                                         1,410
T          95       _7~~25-          3757          O9            -                           -                                 131
KaracaorenoLC                                                     10            32            20           10            -            -             -                      70
FC                 _             -             8888          :89          189           -             _                                   565
1 _!0       210           2088          199           -             -             _ 235
Tohmo                           C                   10            10            20            35           25             30          -             _                     130
7b-                         FC                                 27           43             35           25            10           -                                   140
79      381           37           89            to           Th9~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  '91.8    -2 70
-l                                 -- :g63           73            50            4                                                7
Kapulkaya                      LC                    6            14           120           40            30            90           -             -                    330
PC                 -             -              45           190          190            50           -                                   473
-T                       4 1       5                         230          220           140           -                                   775
Ctols-                         1C                   25            30            so            80           60            50           -             -                     925
Pa                                                          235           470           470           -                                 ,1 75
T9                 89            30           59            315         Th9                          -                                 1,5300 520
Altinkaya                       LC                 310           529           600           650          700           778           800           230                4,568
P'C                -             -            940         1 410         1,830         2,350         1,410         1,4 0                9,403
T                 ;i3           500        1,500         7t8            ,50          3,1260        2,210         1,647 78
At.tOk                          LC                 400         1,000         3,690        3,690         4,500         6,200        12,257         8,762               40,499
PC             _               1,000         2,360         2,300        4,240         4,240         4,710         3,335               28,248
T        4        O3          9002         79799         9,090         0,749        10,119         1697         13,100                5817
Ca=ligoze                     0IC                    5            15          200            350          350           950           240                               2,o
FC                 -             -             _            236           23e.          707           471           -                  1,653
T                   5              2          0C 586    '7 9             399         1,657                         -                  3,723
Debr-nt                         1C                   2           100           -40          365            48           26o           135           -                  1,050
e   FC             -             -105                        135          370           140           100           -                    85C
T                    2           100          24865 .        500          418           403           235           -                   1,302
O-desed                        l,C                 150           300          500           6oc           28o           -             -             _                  1,830
PC       T         -              95          235           470           470           -             -             -                  1,270
79         '.899~~~~~~-5   3$             8           ,00            70            -                                               ,0
Subtotal                  IC               3,375         3,684         7,210         6,590         6,1o6         8,358        13,432         3,992               57,747
(Mass Cost -ad PFsoieal Co-t.)  FC                  3,628        6,279         7,775         7,600         8,080         7 967         6,691        'O,748               58,768
7T               7, 03                     11 985        14,190                                                   9,740                  5
In U0$  illioba           LC                  71.66         78.22        153.08        139.92        129.64        177.45        285.18        590.91             1,226.06
FC                  77.03        133.31        165.07        161.36        171.55       169.13        142.o6        228.20             1,247.73
T '512179                     211.53          318.5         301.0         321.19      T1376.60       427.24        s19.11              2, 473.79
Sobtotal  ost$ millio .   LC                   7,1.66        82.37        176.81       175.32        174.50        255.71        439.46        313.28             1,689.11
isoloding Physical and   FC                    77.03        14.38            66        202.18        832 62        24375         2138.9        374.48             1,680 01
Pales Costisg-nols)                   .        8.9      "''-t 67'7                     3750       "'1               99.48        65837        '35577              3,369.12
KOs-aky                         IsC                 2-1.62        54.85         80.10         93.21         82.83        83.36         45.29         15.58               466.84
'us$ oiillon -                    F_                   70.37        111.39         41.50         95.52        94.9          34.73         28.48         2                   502.02
total cost)                       -T                 15f6 i.                  "" 521775       "1573 177.12                 118.18     ".77                 77
Totol DSI                 LC                . 83.58         037.22       256.91        263.53        257.33        339,.07       4894.75       328.66             2,155.95
Hyd02 p-il                PC o14),4o                         252.27      232.16                      3269 1        278.53        247  39       399.67             2,182.03
u illi-                T30.~                        --   7 230.68  99..07          566.23        52            617.6         7 1           718.53             4,337.93
1/  Costs  d  eosge  rates as of Decetber 1979.
A] Direst 9oreIgn 6oats.
Apr81 1930



- 51 -                                                                         AIOCT  1.10
Page 2 cf 3
KARAXAYA EYDHOPOWER PROJECT
L-erelor-ent Pro-rs  Costs (LT Million)
Total
1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985         1986            1979-1986
TEX Projects
a) Thermal Po-er Planta
Soia B 1-2            LC              1,100          427            50          _            _            _            _                              1,577
FC              1779          980            50          -            -            -            -            -                 2 929
T             975           1,407          120          _            _            -            _            _
Elbistan 1-4          LC              2,272         3,415          500          155          200          -            -            -                 6,542
FC             10,417       4,780         3,624        2,327          500          -            -            -                21,648
T87588        57195       57755         25,4   70 0                -            -            -                23,130
Yatagan A 1-2         LC               1,034          608          472          -            _            -            _            -                 2,114
90              2,976        1,137        1,445          -----5 8s8
T               4,010       2,245        1,917          _--77
'leotlernal           LC                 50          118           30           -            -            -            -            -                   198
PC               256          299            20          -            -            -            -            -                   575
T                306          417           50          -            -            -            -            -                   773
Alinga  O,TC)         LC                 131          123           20          -            -            -            -            -                   274
FC               247          474            50          -            -            -            -            -                   771
T                378m         597         -70           ____                                               -1,045
Coyirhan 1-2          1C                600          900           255          200 2        -            -            -                               ,955
FtC             1,312        2249         1,89           300          -                                      -3951
1,912                     2,43           700          -            _            _            _                 7,96
Orha-eli              LC                150          900          482          200           -            -            -            -                 1,732
FC               750         1,875        1 363          300          -            _            _            -                 4,288
T               900         2,775        14,5           500                       -            - _                             ,
K.nga1                LC                500          810          700          423          200           -            -            -                 2,633
FC               935        1 815            ? 687     1,233          300          -            -            -                  3970
T              1,135                        2t        1625          38500    _                  
Y. Catalagoi          LC                350          400          300          215           100                                                      - _  _  1,36S
FC               748          937          750          793           100          _           -            _                  3328
T       1       ,7 0        1,337        1,050        1200                        -            -            -
Yatagan A-3           LC                 50           500       1,000          500          450          _             _            _                 2,500
FC                50         1,000        1,000        1,000         950           -            -            -                 4 Oo_
1T0       1,504         2,000        1,502        1,400          -            -            -                 6`500
Son B 3-4             LC                 30          251        1,170          449          700          200          -             -                2,800
FC                37          300        2,587         1 500       2,031          200           -            -                 6,655
T                   67 591              3,757                     2,731    00                 -            -                 9,15
Yatngas B 1-2         1C                 50          350        1,200        1,100          500           -           -             _                 3,200
FC                94          937         3 280       2,749         1,0009         _            _            _                 9,60
--71          T l 4    4     77F:18    717448        1,500          -            -            -                11,260
seyitoner B                              4.0  10     130          500          750          380          200          -            -                 2,00
FC                -           206         1,406        1,875        1,100          100                                         4 _  , 687
Tr               40          336       T1,0          2,6295       1,482          300          -                              6.6
C-n 1-3                LC                50          600         1,900        1,142         950          210           i6o          -                4,610
FC                94          262         1,749       4,299       41675           902           90           -                12,069
T                144         862        3,249         5,739        5,625        1,110         250           _                1,79
Snary 1               LC                 10          200          420          650           90          200          200          -                  1,750
FC       2        19           75          637        1.375           545         700          400                             3,751
29         073       17,037        2,925           08r5-       90-0         358           -                 57, 521
Elbiot-n P            LC                 10        1,000        4,890        4,450        3,000          500          400          400               i4,650
FC                75          686        5,579       12,247       il 498          500          300          300               36 185
T             85 =1,8 1948                                                                            l700  700
-F55        78          10,469       16,697       3385          1000           70            8               5:57
Other The-nol &       LC                775          627        1,750        1,449        3,600       17,268       13,270       25,850              64,589
Re..calo              FC               1,363       2,586        4,623        7,666       16,183       25,632       35 o8o       35 250             128,383
2,139        3,213        6,373        9,115       19,793       42:900       48,350       61,100             192,972
Totol Thercl      LC              7,202       11,359       15,219       11,680       10,170       18,578       14,030       26,250              11n,489
FC            21,152       20,898       31,740        37,864      43,882       28 032        35,870       35 5S0             254 988
T            29,354        32,257      46,959        19,345        46,610 T19,00                            8r
b) T -noi-ion  nod           LC              3,479        2,750        3,574        4,o89        4,761        5,500        6,CO        7,000               37,153
DiOtribotion           FC              2,188        4,740        5,o61        5,624        6,092        7,500        9,000       10,500              50 703
5,667       7,190        8,635        9,713  10,653             13,000       15,000       17,500             59595
o) Villago Fl-trlifio-tion   LC                127        3,802        1,725        4,725        5,750        6,750        2,928        3,750              32,537
FC               323        1,198        1 500        1 500         1,750       2 000         1 100        1,250              10 621
- .    50        5,000        6t225        6.22         7,500        9,750        4      02    5,000              43,178
d) Other I-yestn-nt3         TC              1,285        1,147        1,514        1,614        1,774        1,850        2,000        2,202              13,384
FC               6oo        2 538          656          750          750          900         1,002        1,172              8,294
T   1,885     3,685        2,170          45         0,521        0,750        3,000        3,300              21,678
(Sobtotal TOK      LC             12,093       19,058       25,032       22,109       22,455       32,678       24,958       39,200             097,583
B(ane Coot and      FC             24,263       29 374       38 957       45 738       52,474       38,432       46,970       48 4oo             324 608
Thynical Coot.)      T             36,356       48432   6       *7  ,        84 7      74 929       71,110       71,928       87,600             322,191
in us$ cillioo     LC                256.75       104.63       531.46       469.41i      476.75       693.80       529.89       832.27            4,194.96
PC                51s1.4      623.65        827.11      971.28      1 1141 1      815.97       997.24      1,027.60            6,891.80
T 771.90   1,228.29     1,359.57     1,4 O        1,590.85     1,509.77        7.3       1,c59.97           11,08685
Total TEl          1C                256.75       426,08       613.84       588.17       641.71       921.55       816.56     1,365.76            5.630.42
nrlading ontinngencieo,  FC                515.14       720.32       955.31     1.216.76 11.499.58        1 17.81      1,536.75     1.686.29 .5679530 196
in us9 nillion)        T                771.89     1,146.40     t3589.15    15804.93      2,141.29     2,097.36     2,353.31     3,052.05           14,936338
April 1980



AXiEX 1. 10
- 52-page 3 ni'3
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER R0J30JCT
Development Progr- m Costs (LT Million)
Total
9579         1980          1981          1982           1983          1984          1985           1986             1979-1986
Elbiitan A                      LC                1,345         1,197         3,415            -             -              -             -             -                   5,950
Ft               3,296             6          2  19                         -              -             - 
T- T r3                      T79              --                                         -             - ,    ~           14,329
Beynzr-i                        LC                  100            -6           200            010           100             30            20           -                     736
Fc                 569            579           690         1,496         1,000            500           400           -5226
T       6 q _             7     '35      1    3            0,596         0,000            530                      4       2 0 -          5,932
vatogmo                          ..                1.0            163            330           463           -              -             -             -                  1,056
Ft                 -              692           692           -                                                                            i       ,384
T                 150 '005                   1,022                         -              -
K-ngal                         Lt                    co           :17           289            577           -             _              -                                 1,062
Fr                 -             273          1,346            85           -              _             -             _                   2 204
T0               '100           374         1,630C         1,-7'2          -                                                              3 -
Orh-neli                        LC                  100            22           287            292           -              -             -             -                     701
FC                               146            26?           266                          -
T          iOO           16            554            558           _             _             _              _ 67                  679
00     755            T19 ~~~~~~~~~~93~5 5         10-- 55                      -             -             -l, F
Can                             LC                  100            45            294           452          413             199           20            -                   1,693
FC                 -             385            578           803           395            101                         -2,262
T0                !00           432          272           1,255           793              0           200           -                   3,955
Milas                           LC                   50           20C            200           400           850            181           200           -2,0
FC                _-             lC             253           600           650            103           -             -
T                  50           300           45C         ,0050           ,500           2              200                     - 9,79
2]bistan  0                                         -              40             50         1,200         2,300         1,000         1,200          1,4100 ,coo
--              -___                0-           50           400         2 500         5,000          6,000         1,0.s0      
T -                       5 0                  100        T793o              ,6         007384       7,000    2 7,57                     22,00C
eoyitoer                        LC                  -5                          100            100           260            81           210            -86
FC                 -                            300           200            40             39           -             -
T                 -              DI            4005          3 00          300           120            210                               i,43-
esa                             toLC                -             1^            1507           157           150            20           155            13                    J.S
2C                         -                    40 1          2C0           200             3C            45            23                   6 35
T                 -             150            ?50           357           310            50            2000          2^                    5>
r-nno                           TC                  -             250           300           300            soc            60            50           -
rC                _                50           123           300           300            90            _             -                     21>
T5                _   ~ ~ "~35300             0Lo            00            oOO        T150               50           _0
Hussolas                       oLC                  _             170           150           10            100            Bo             87                                 07
Ft                 -               30           150           10O           100                          100 12        -8
T              _                207            30             O            200    ;     075            T                                   70 26
Oto                            oLC                  _             -             3CC            2C0           502           200           565           }11                  1,8,5
FC                 -              -             100           300           500           500            135           _                   1,335
T   -         -             400           500         1,000            700           700            120
nIbiotno. 7                     LC                  -             _             _              -              40           300         3,500         2,500                 6,340
FC                 -             _              _             _              10           200          2,500         4,022                6,710
T                 -             -              -             -              50           500          000           6,50C                13.-5)
Sobtotal             tC                1,895         2,482         6,_60         4,334          5,003         2,151         9,987          4,?22               32,132
(PEaso Coot anc           FC               3,357         6,634          7.4L2        53250          5,695         6,663          9,180         5,060                49,781
Phyosial Cost.)          0T               5,752         9,126         13,502         9,            L08           814           156            9,232 7'
In 0S$ Million       1C                   40.23          2.70        128..66         92.02        126.22         45.67        127.11         89.60                682.21
FC                  6'.89        240.86        '58.00         101.46        120.91        14i.46         194.90        107.43              1,256.90
T                 122.02        193.55        286,F6         203.19        027.13        197.13         322.01        197.03              1,735.0l
Totol  TKI           LC                   4o.23         55.49         148.60        115.30        142.97         65.81        195.88         147.03               911.31
a_lr i     hysionl        FC                  81.89        148.33         182.49        139.66      162.74          2o3.84         300.34        176.29              1 395.58
nA   los Coot.) ng   y     T122.12                         203.92         331.09        254.96        305.7i        2              4962          323.32             2,306.89
Grand Total          IC                                                                                                                                         8,697.68
(DSI, TK and TKT'         Ft  2
in u0$ ailliot           T                                                                                                                                       21,5
Distribution 2/
,Totals TOly)
IETT <10t1mb0l                                      FOoo        1,565         1,000         1,D,O 1,002 1,000                          1,000                               9,o  8 185
E00 'Ankara)                                        313           025           350            375           40o           430           460            500                3,155
ESHOT (1TirS                                        '7"           195           210            230           250           275           300            330                1,965
TIler Bsokami                                                   2,0C 0 2, F3 3,602          1,950          6,000         7 200         8,500         9,6c0                44,300
Total_                                 3,20          4,775         5,160          6,125        97,650           0590       11,260         11,437               57,605
I Tn 00.0 MOilionC                        65.61          99.          179.55        135.59        162.42        189.07        217.83         242.68             1,223.04
Total Tlotribnti-n                        65.61        115.18         126.53        170.40        2i8.62        272.45        335.68         398.24             1,702.71
2 inoluding contingonci-s)
in us$ nillioo
Total Power Sobosotor                                                                                                                                          23,283.96
1/ Caste eDd emchng*e rates me o Dfeber 1979.
' Direct TereBlg  ocet.
|/  Cly ajer dittrtibhtin areas, fteige e-dge  -aste in oride of 40%.
April 1980



(DSI) GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF STATE HYDRAULIC WORKS OF TURKEY
ORGANIZATION CHART
CSST. DIRECTOR GENERAL                                 ASST. DIRECTOR GENERAL                                       ASST DIRECTOR GENERAL                                 ASSI. DIRECTOR GENERAL
- Ge-IepErteIDCeWan dO        w tet dPTI
-DRIgr E C an d c AntutoepEO   Dams and            -Ope o ad  T eae ,,IP EAEO                                       -IneA'IIgOIaTonnd pOTIltTg dOD.                            -Cene Ia   e
RHy'dCIIC e E COrie     DeTS p eRs                 - Adrs ICEE DrErEP dePt A                                         M= -h-rery end eupply dept
-Planr  I   d  ,eId  ed- Orge--rTt-                                  rddrrn drttrtn,lAltpEl deer                   -Rrr-_d drv-lEpr     en drr.
-Lold,Are.eeLrro AIArrt dellrr                    D,IeE, BoardPRE ne,APAePAA.SISPempAoIEEC                      -C   mtEAeP,Mrd CAEttI sCAECEeAre
-AtEErrE ETtEse.a HerRepdAofDSIGIle -A--rE Pf P--IC ons                                                              AtIREBANGAM
CRIER OFROARD              LEATRF                  ALCREAIS                   AE   IS5                OEG    RDT                              RAXNIGATION           PRITATE A-SIOROF         PROJECT DIRECTOS          ACCODNTING OlECIC           SECRETARY OF
OP AD11ORISOSAD              AOSTCIFAOSR                                     CIPC SR                    ADFRINTAN ANANDTENRALSE  ENEALl                                                                                                              C-CL DEFENSE
SAPERVISORS                                                                                         RELATIONS COIEF                           AlCTNOOGYCE            DIRECTORATEO D                  EIRECTRATEL
ADVISOR                                    'oFCO T                                       IETRT
INSESTIGATION AND               DESIGN AND                                   EARS AND R.E. POWER           GOENCLMACEINERE AND                                            OPERATION AND             GRESEARCII AND.LNIGADAMNSRTS
LAI ING E 1RT.NT _ CONSTRUCION DEPT                  WATER SO ILY AND        PLANTS DEPARTMENT         SERVSDPP LI DEPT                                           _    M EANORIAION DEPT.                                                                    GERVICES OEPT
NEWAGO DISPOSAL
--Pet,rdAAAt              CrEC-AE.r t-Er                   DEPT              De--t &EE  EPA                ATER DEPT                     -MCEeoerprrrODOrIEd--o                                  -GeiIeE,r
GO.IWdEEIE  -                                                              d-ErIA                                                      -NP,tTErt,Ar               -eneere,A'pre                  MI,IAEOES                .PArrrsrd,rrrrrrr              erEA     AE
-NIEDDttrSdAtErrtr11 -S,rI,'5CTeErC                                  eCEE_rer derIp,r IEEO........E&pl   _tr                         M--Malrt  Apr-E            A,,-Ao Iu,Eeltt.A, -dAGGEt                              dAt,=-rtrtEE
F--EErPDAPbErA              tCCIDtP                                          IEoadEE.II --,r            AErAA                              dAtEEr_                  -F..AtOtIdEt.                -,PEAIE,OeOE --hCCArI,,rt                                G--AI -E-C.E......
- Energy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.-di-d-
E 1                                                                                  d-h-SEIEr,ECAAee                                                                                                                       -AdrERrAeCAD
16
WAtIA Derrk-IYy3yA|



TURKEY
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
TEK's Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
l         I            ~~~~~~~Purchasing andllllj
Technical Advisers                       Adjudication Cornesigation                                                                                            Legal Department
Comittee                                                                          un il
OFDEFENSE    | | ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER|   ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                          ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER               ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER|   ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                           REGIONAL
| SECRETARIAT  | L    PLANNING AND FINANCE                    DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION                 VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION                        OPERATIONS                            ADMINISTRATION                  HEAD OFFICE
- Planning and Coordination             - Transmission Lines Project              Village Electrification              - Transmission Networks                   Personnel Division
Division                               Division                               Group Head                              Operation Dinision                     Administration Division
-  Accounting Division                   _ Sub-Stations Project                                                        - Power Plants Survey                     Training Division
- Participations Division                   Division                                -   Survey and Project                 Division                              Machinery Supply Division
- Research Divinion                     - Network Construction                            Division                     - Power Plants Project                  _ Purchasing Division
Nuclear Power Plants                    Division                                     Construction Control and          Division                               Land Acquisition, Mapping and
Division                              Civil Engineering Division                     Operations Division          - Thermal Power Plants                     Survey Department
_..           Supply                  Operation Division
Equipment SupplY              - Hydraulic Power Planes
Dinision                         Operations Division
-System Operanion and
Distribution Networks                   Customers Division
Project Division                   - Load Dinpotchirt y Centers
Distribution Networks                   Project Department
Operations Division                   Fuel Supply Departmentn
World Bank -21215



- 55 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 10
TURKEY
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Description of the Project
Background
1.        Studies of the Karakaya dam and power plant were begun in 1962.
This was one of the first steps towards the development of the water resources
of the Lower Firat basin. These studies have continued ever since, as the
Karakaya project assumed the first priority, after Keban, as a major hydro
power source in Turkey. Complying with the objectives of the overall river
basin planning criteria, Karakaya has taken its present form and status as the
result of the extensive studies. The development of the 310 m of available
head between the Keban and Karababa dam sites over the stretch of the river
known as the Lower Firat has been the subject of many investigations. The
studies that have covered various schemes were incorporated by Stone and
Webster Inc. in a Power Resources Priority study, dated December 1967. In
1968, further studies of the Lower Firat basin, at the feasibility level,
were promoted by DSI who engaged the group of consulting engineers comprising
Electrowatt Engineering Services Ltd., Tipton and Kalmbach Inc., Societe
Generale Pour l'Industrie and Gizbili Consulting Engineers to carry them out.
This work was completed in 1970 and a firm recommendation was submitted to
DSI for realization of one particular development named the Karakaya-Golkoy-
Karababa scheme.  The results of the studies showed that the Lower Firat
project is more economical for power generation than alternative programs
featuring oil-fired thermal plants or nuclear plants of the same capacity and
that it offers a satisfactory internal rate of return. In 1970, a feasibility
report on the Karakaya project alone was prepared by the same group of con-
sulting engineers on request of DSI. Karakaya lies immediately downstream of
Keban, and, from the point of view of size and cost of power and energy pro-
duction, it is the most attractive hydroelectric project not only on the Firat
River but in Turkey as a whole. In 1972, DSI engaged the joint venture of
Electrowatt Engineering Services Ltd., Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton,
Societe Generale pour l'Industrie and Dolsar Engineering Ltd. to prepare the
final plant design. This work is now being completed.
2.        The results of the Karakaya studies were presented in the following
reports:
(i) Lower Firat (Euphrates) Project, Feasibility Report, April
1970;
(ii) Karakaya Dam and Hydroelectric Project, Feasibility Report,
June 1970;
(iii) Karakaya Hydroelectric Power Development, Loan Application
Report, July 1974;



- 56 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 10
(iv) Karakaya Dam and Hydroelectric Plant, Design Report, Novem-
ber 1975; and
(v) Karakaya Hydroelectric Development, Supplementary Informa-
tion, May 1976.
Several other studies and documents are available, particularly those dealing
with the reservoir filling and operation for projects on the Euphrates River,
prepared either by the Bank's consulEants and/or DSI consultants.
3.        Karakaya would chronologically, constitute the second step in the
long range development of the Euphrates River power resources in Turkey. The
first step in the development of the Euphrates River basin was the Keban
scheme, which utilizes a 152 m head. This scheme provides the basic regula-
tion of the Euphrates River. Ultimately, Keban will attain an installed
capacity of 1,260 MW, with an average annual generation of 6,252 GWh. The
total capacity of the Keban reservoir is 30.7 km3. The rated discharge of
Keban is 1,080 m3/sec and spillway discharge capability 16,200 m3/sec.
4.        Downstream from Karakaya two other power plants are planned for
future development; Karababa (Ataturk) and Findikli. The hydropower plant
Karababa will be a multipurpose power plant with an installed capacity of
2,400 MW and an average annual generation of 8,800 GWh before irrigation
development. The total storage of the Karababa reservoir will be 48.5 km3;
its useful part 12.0 km3. The Findikli hydropower project is at the prelim-
inary design stage. Its installed capacity would be about 1,000 MW. Con-
struction of Karababa is planned to start soon.
5.        Karakaya is conceived for power generation only and in order to
obtain its maximum benefits, it must be operated in conjunction with Keban.
All the hydro plants on the Euphrates will operate in cascade. For the
optimum operation of the chain, the river system as a whole was studied by
DSI and its consultants. A computer model has been developed to simulate
the operation of the Euphrates River chain of hydro plants. An additional
study has been prepared for the Keban and Karakaya plants, as a special case
of the overall model which looks at all the Euphrates River plants. Being
non-water consuming plants Keban and Karakaya were considered to achieve the
optimum energy output. The aim of the optimization was to maximize the firm
energy produced in the critical dry period with a given pattern of energy gen-
eration. This can be accomplished by keeping the water levels behind both
dams at a maximum and reducing spillage to a minimum. The results of the
operational study which were obtained from an analysis of the river flow
data for the period July 1938 to June 1973 are summarized below:



- 57 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 10
Average Annual Generation
Installed           Firm         Secondary         Total
Scheme                Capacity (MW)         (GWh)          (GWh)           (GWh)
Keban (with
Karakaya)              1,260             4,770           1,482          6,252
Karakaya                 1,800              6,060          1,293           7,353
3,060            10,830          2,775          13,605
Keban (alone)           (1,260)            (4,411)        (1,432)         (5,843)
Gain due to
Karakaya Project       1,800             6,419           1,343          7,762
DSI and the consultants have concluded that Karakaya should have an installed
capacity of 1,800 MW. Several installed capacities were considered but 1,800
MW was found as the most appropriate solution taking into consideration future
Turkish power demand and available energy resources. The change of the in-
stalled capacity of the Project from 1,500 MW to 1,800 MW (i.e. 20%) has
increased the total capital costs of the Project by only 4%. The Project
feasibility report contains comparison of costs and benefits for the alterna-
tive installed capacities. The results indicate that the 1,800 MW solution
is the most favorable even if its advantage over the smaller installations
is almost marginal. System stability and reserve considerations also have
led to the conclusion that 300 MW is a reasonable unit size for the Karakaya
installation. Furthermore, DSI has adopted the principle to develop the
available project site to the full economically permissible capacity. The
generating unit size of 300 MW would be among the largest ever built. The
Project designs and technical specifications have been prepared assuming an
installed capacity of 1,800 MW.
Site Selection
6.        Karakaya will be located 160 km downstream from the recently com-
pleted Keban Project. Like Keban it is a single-purpose power project
although the regulation effect on the flow of the river will be useful at
future downstream dams which are planned for irrigation in addition to power.
The site location was selected because: (i) of a superior rock foundation
and (ii) a dam of reasonable height (173 m) would back water up to the Keban
tailwater. The site selection was made in 1969 by a Turkish government bureau,
EIE, assisted by Stone and Webster of the U.S.A. Five sites were investi-
gated here and the one with the best rock was selected. Downstream of the
site there is karstic (cavernous) limestone which caused so many problems at
Keban and upstream the rock is mica gneiss which is weak in shear on account
of the lubricating qualities of the mica. Unfortunately the better hornblende
gneiss at the site occurs at the narrowest reach of the river which illus-
trates the problems which arise at a narrow (often considered the most eco-
nomical) dam site. In this case much sound rock must be excavated to make
room for the power house, a cofferdam 38 m high and two fully lined diversion



- 58 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 4 of 10
tunnels with an excavated diameter of 13.5 m must be constructed to pass a
construction-period flood of 3,500 m3/sec with a return occurrence of 25
years, and the spillway must discharge over the roof of the powerhouse.
Despite these disadvantages it is concluded that the best site for the
Karakaya Project has been selected.
Geological Investigations
7.        Investigations at the dam site and in the reservoir area have been
unusually thorough. Borings with water and grout tests therein have been made
at the dam site by both EIE (1962-1970) and DSI (1970-1974). Borings in the
past in Turkey have not been the best, but these have been well logged in great
detail and appear to represent conditions accurately. In addition, 27 adits
(2 m high and 1.8 m wide) were excavated deep into the abutments. These are
much better for geological explorations than borings and they demonstrate good
rock quality; they all have stood several years without support except the
portals, and without deterioration. They also served for six in situ tests
for moduli of elasticity and deformation - essential parameters for arch dam
design. Despite good quality the rock is seriously jointed and faulted. It
is significant that when the consultants reviewed the choice of the type of
dam they asked for further site explorations which were carried out; these
were principally to explore further the joint and fault patterns. The total
exploratory program shows convincingly that the dam will be founded nearly
100% on hornblende gneiss and that the tunnels will be mostly in hornblende
but partly in mica gneiss; and that the explorations are adequate for the
design of the structures involved.
8.        The geology of the reservoir area is significant as regards leakage
and landslides. Both phenomena have been investigated by EIE assisted by
many consultants. Karstic formations which created leakage problems at Keban
have been located and examined. In all cases they were found to be backed up
by impervious formations and leakage would consist of filling a limited number
of cavities with no continuous flow into them. No faults have been found
which could cause leakage to other watersheds. The risk of significant leak-
age from the reservoir area may be considered small.
9.        There are likely to be landslides or perhaps more properly termed
rockslides since there is normally little overburden. The possibilities
have been located and studied. There is little possiblity of large massive
slides on account of the extensive jointing and faulting of the rock. Small
slides are to be expected - most of them in tributary valleys where their
effect will be negligible. In one instance a few families will be moved from
an area which may move as the reservoir is filled and in another area survey
markers will be set to check on movement. There is no way to prevent slides
since much of the topography is on the verge of instability now, but the
circumstances indicate they will not be of great consequence. It is concluded
that the geological exploration of the dam and reservoir sites are adequate.
The experience from the first years of Project construction has also confirmed
this conclusion.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 5 of 10
Geology of the Dam Site
10.       The river is 50 m wide without banks; the valley walls rise from
stream bed: on a 1:1 slope on the left side for 110 m with some vertical
cliffs and then flattening to 1:2 slopes; and on a 2:1 slope on the right side
for 110 m with vertical cliffs and overhangs and flattening to 1:1 above that.
Ravines drain both abutments upstream and downstream of the site. There is
little or no vegetation and erosion may occur on the recently cleared 1:2
slopes high on the left side.
11.       The dam and powerhouse will be located almost entirely in hornblende
gneiss - a rock which is mineralogically massive with the gneissic foliations
discernable, but indicating little movement upon themselves (schistosity), e.g.
even though the predominate dip of the foliations is 200 to 300 toward the
river in the left abutment, the latter still shows steep to vertical walls
indicating little development of foliation or schistosity. There are faults
up to 50 cm thick which will have to be excavated and backfilled with concrete
along the thrust line of the arch dam and the many joints will dictate the use
of many rock anchors. Many of the joints and faults are clean and will con-
solidate with grouting. The other major rock type at the site is mica gneiss
which is a weaker rock. It occurs above a fault 1 to 3 m thick about 15 m
below the crest of the dam on the left side. The fault is filled with rock
fragments, sand and silty clay. This material and the mica gneiss above it
will be removed and replaced with a concrete thrust block. The mica gneiss
occurs at the upstream end of the diversion tunnels but in this location it
will not be important.
12.       The tests for modulus of elasticity in the abutments were satisfac-
tory for an arch dam; they averaged 298 tons/cm2 and 228 tons/cm2 in the right
and left abutments respectively.
Earthquakes
13.       Since 1936 six earthquakes have occurred within 150 km of the site
varying in intensity from 5.5 to 8 on the Richter scale. There is a record
of a severe earthquake within 45 km in 1893 which levelled towns and caused
many deaths. The designs for the Karakaya structures therefore, incorporate
provisions for earthquake accelerations or ground motion. Computations on
generally accepted bases indicate that static coefficients expressed as a
fraction of the force of gravity, of 0.15 g for the dam and 0.10 g for the
powerhouse should be applied and this has been done.
Dam Design
14.       During the long period of study by Turkish Government entities and
consulting firms many types of dams have been considered; according to the



- 60 -                            ANNEX 2.1
Page 6 of 10
reports available final selection was on the basis of lowest cost. Upon
review it appears that the final selection perhaps would be the only type of
dam that could be built in this geological environment. Types considered
are:
(a)  Arch gravity dam with spillway over powerhouse.
(b)  Thin arch dams with spillway tunnels or spillway chutes.
The site is too jointed and faulted for these types; and
a tunnel spillway is hydraulically undesirable.
(c)  Rockfill dam.  This would required a chute spillway.
(d)  Underground powerhouse.  The span of the underground openings
would be long and in this jointed rock it is not a prudent choice.
15.       The arch-gravity dam in the selected design is 173 m high with a
fixed radius of curvature of 225 m. The crest length is 462 m and thickness
vary from 10 m to 52 m. The design has also been put through the U.S. Bureau
of Reclamation computer program in order to verify obtained results. The dam
contains the intakes and penstocks leading to the powerhouse. The powerhouse
is approximately fitted to the curvature of the dam, the maximum space between
them at the highest part of the dam is 5 m - a desirable feature to avoid at
least some transfer of foundation deformations between the structures and pro-
vide flexibility space for penstock connections. The powerhouse will have
three principal spaces: for main valves, for six 300-MW turbine/generator
units, and for main transformers.
16.       The gated spillway at the top of the arch-gravity dam has nine
14.5 x 15.5 m tainter gates. The spillway flow converges between training
walls and discharges from a flip bucket about 110 m wide on the powerhouse
roof and plunges into the river about 150 m downstream. This type of spillway
is not unique; there is one in Japan and several in France, but none of the
existing ones discharge as large a volume of water as is required here. The
final plans of this feature have been model tested and satisfactory results
have been obtained.
17.       Where the spillway discharge plunges back into the river it will
dig a hole in the rock of the river bed. The extent of the hole cannot be
reliably model tested and consequently the effect on the stability of the
steep side slopes of the gorge is difficult to predict. The geologists have
decided that the close jointing and faulting of the rock will in this case
be advantageous in that rock will fall into the plunge pool in small pieces
and possibly be washed away. There is likely to be more to it than this, but
it is unpredictable and therefore reasonable to defer any stabilizing measures
until some experience develops.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 7 of 10
Construction Risks
18.       This is a high risk job on account of the high steep slopes and the
instability, especially upon disturbance of the highly jointed and faulted
rock. The risks are manageable providing constant expert supervision in-
cluding expert geological supervision is given to the construction process.
The level of expertise required for this is not available in Turkey and was
obtained through consultants selected for construction supervision.
19.       A large amount of difficult excavation is required. There are
several reasons: to reach acceptable rock 25 to 30 m of weathered rock or
containing weathered joints and faults may have to be excavated; to make room
for the powerhouse sound rock must also be excavated; and access roads on
tortuous alignments must be excavated from elevations up to some 800 m above
river bed. The excavations at the dam site will be in steep hillsides; the
road excavations will be in somewhat flatter average slopes (except on the dam
site itself) but even with present progress still 300 m above river bed the
risks of falling rock are abundantly evident. The plunge pool of the spillway
may cause rock falls but this is likely to be a deferred risk.
20.       The excavations for the dam, powerhouse, and tunnel portal structures
will have to be done from the top down. As the work progresses much of the rock
will have to be anchored with rods estimated to be 20 to 30 m long and stressed
to 100 tons each.  In general the pattern of excavation for the powerhouse is
foreseen to be with slopes in the valley walls of 5 vertical to I horizontal
with terraces 5 m wide at intervals with wire fences to catch falling rocks.
There will be faults in the excavated trenches for the ends of the dam; these
are usually of the order of 10 cm thick but they go up to 50 cm and they will
have to be cleaned out and backfilled with concrete. It is to be expected
that some negative slopes will be produced inadvertently and these will be
backfilled with concrete and anchored. It is significant that the consultants
review resulted in a shift of the dam deeper into the left abutment since any
difficulties in the end-of-dam trench on this side would be minimized by
flatter ground at a lower elevation. Some loose rock on the road cuts can be
tolerated and DSI is planning to erect barriers to catch falling rock at some
locations. There are small rock masses high on the hills above the dam site
which have been known to slide or roll into the valley during heavy rains (and
possibly during earthquakes) and these will be searched for and blown up,
anchored or otherwise supported.
21.       Despite a high cofferdam and large bypass tunnels the return period
of the construction period flood of 25 years is not conservative. It can be
accepted if Keban is operated during the construction period to help prevent
floods which normally have a return period of say once in 50 to 100 years.
22.       The diversion tunnel design was considered to have some deficien-
cies. DSI and its consultants reconsidered the Bank comments on the diversion



- 62 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 8 of 10
tunnel design and adopted suggested modifications. One suggestion was to use
shotcrete, wire mesh and anchor bolts for initial support, provided that shot-
crete will be used immediately after shooting in the arch. Special equipment
to safeguard personnel will be secured. The portals will be stabilized with
pre-stressed anchors. The portal sections will be of thick concrete with
relatively light reinforcing steel; for conservative design they will contain
supporting beams at least for the crown section. The tunnel has a cast
in place lining throughout which is desirable both for support and efficient
passage of water.
Outlet Facilities
23.       The diversion outlets are two concrete lined tunnels with a diamater
of 11.5 m. The length of the tunnels is 568 and 698 m and the tunnel nearest
the river will be used as a bottom outlet after the completion of the Project.
The proposed cofferdam at elevation 575 will put a head of 29.5 m (allowing
for freeboard) on the center line of the tunnels and the outlet capacity of
both will be 3,500 m3/sec. The shorter of these tunnels is to be completely
plugged and the other is to be plugged with a gated opening of about 5 m
square in the plug. When completed the intake of this tunnel will be at
elevation 575 m.a.s.l. and it could pass 600 m3/sec with an elevation of 589
m.a.s.l. and 760 m3/sec, or somewhat above average river flow of 738 m3/sec,
with a pool elevation of 600 m.a.s.l. At minimum operating pool for the power-
house at elevation 670 m.a.s.l. the gated opening could pass 1,250 m3/sec.
24.       Since the proposed gated opening is about 5 m square in a tunnel with
a diameter of 11.5 m it could be enlarged substantially to pass more water.
The passage of water through the gated outlet at and considerably below minimum
operating heads raised questions of cavitation. These questions were studied
by consultants and a more reliable design solution has been adopted.
25.       The outlet capacity appears adequate and adjustable upward if needed.
The plans for plugging the tunnels when diversion requirements are satisfac-
tory; they can be accomplished so that sufficient water can be passed at any
time without powerhouse operation. Most of the plugging operations must be
done in the low water seasons and that will be arranged.
Power Facilities
26.       The powerhouse will be statically independent of the dam itself
and will contain six Francis-type turbines, arranged vertically, with unit
capacity of 300 MW under 144.5 m head rated discharge of 233 m3/sec and speed
of 136.4 rpm. One penstock for each turbine will be located in the dam be-
tween the intake structure and the turbine spiral case. Each penstock will
have an upper bend, a vertical section approximately 61 m in length, a lower
bend and a horizontal section about 15 m in length. Inside diameter of the
penstocks is 7 m between intake and lower bend and reduces from 7 to 6 m at



- 63 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 9 of 10
the lower bend. Intakes will be provided with trash racks. Stoplogs will be
installed for maintenance and repair. The powerhouse structure will be divided
into six independent unit blocks each containing one turbine/generator unit
together with the main transformer and auxilliary equipment. The generators
will be rated 315 MVA, 50 Hz, 15.75 kV and 0.95 power factor. They will be
unit-connected to banks of three monophase main transformers, each rated 105
MVA. The generators and main transformers will be connected with a set of
screened conductors, having a length of about 35 m and operating under rated
voltage of 24 kV. The transformers will be located in the transformer hall,
which is a part of the powerhouse. A set of three monophase underground
cables, oil insulated, rated at 380 kV and 480 A/phase, will be installed
between the main transformers and the cable terminal on the dam crest. The
average length of this cable connection will be about 260 m.
27.       Electric energy will be transferred from the cable terminal to the
switchyard through three 380-kV overhead lines covering a distance of about
2.5 km. The switchyard will occupy an area of 389 x 147 m2 and consist of 380
kV, 154 kv and 31.5 kV sections. The 380-kV section will include two main and
one transfer bus. The 154-kV section of the switchyard will be fed from the
380-kV section through one 380/154 kV, 120 MVA autotransformer. A service
bulding in the switchyard will provide the necessary control and relay pro-
tection.
28.       The 380-kV transmission lines which will be required for the connec-
tion of Karakaya to the interconnected power system of Turkey are not included
in the Project. They will be constructed separately by TEK. These lines
will have a route length of about 1,300 km and will connect Karakaya with
substations in Keban, Osmaniye and Ankara (via Kayabasi).
Environmental Impact
29.       The Euphrates River Valley between Keban and Karakaya has three dis-
tinct topographical sections. First, the narrow, sinuous section over 40 km
downstream of Keban; this steep sided valley trends to south-west and is
bounded by mountains which rise to over 1,500 m. This section is followed by
a great sweep of the river to the south-east, here the left bank remains
steep but to the west the flat Malatya Plain extends up to 50 km to the foot
of the Taurus mountains. Fifty kilometers east of Malatya, the river enters
its deep and forbidding gorge through the Taurus, which extends for about
120 km. It is in this narrow cleft that the Karakaya dam will be situated.
The Karakaya reservoir will be formed in this valley, with the surface area
about 300 km2 and the total volume of 9.6 km3.
30.       The number of people to be relocated from villages which wil be sub-
merged has been estimated to be 17,000. At present they live in 34 villages
of which only three have a population of more than 1,000 persons. The Karakaya
project area is one of the most conservative regions in Turkey, both socially



- 64 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 10 of 10
and economically. Within and around the project area there is a low level
economy based almost on primitive subsistence agriculture. This area has a
low population density and local people are moving to other parts of Turkey
or abroad.
31.       The legal basis for expropriation of land of relocated families are
the Turkish Expropriation laws. The aim of fair indemnification is to provide
a former owner with about the same (or better) economic situation he had prior
to flooding of his property. DSI just started solving resettlement problems.
32.       The section of roads and railways, which will be flooded by the
Karakaya reservoir, will be relocated. About 35 km of new roads and two
bridges have to be constructed to replace the existing roads and bridges.
The railway line in the length of 33 km has to also be relocated. The State
Highway Administration and State Railways are responsible for the relocation
of their facilities.
April 1980



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(in '000O
1979 &                                                                                                                                        Total
'efore          1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985           1986            1987              1980-1987
1.  Preliminary and               LT         1,648,196        477,661       477,661        477,661        477,661        477,662                                                          2,388,306
Related Works                US$            -             2,075          2,075          2,075          2,075          2,082          -               -              -                   10,382
2.  Civil & Hydraulic             LT         1,058,729      1,201,599     1,201,599      1,201,599        757,765        757,765        757,765         541,261         420,503           6,839,856
Works (Contract 1t 1)        u5s$          19,077         35,438        27,169         24,806         24,425         22,444         20,081          19,898          14,766             188,977
3.  Turbines & Cenerators         LT             4,ooo          8,000        62,462         84,237          5,500          2,500          2,500           2,500           -                 167,699
(Contract I 2)               SFR         114,120         71,325          3,170         64,985         63,400          -             -               -               -                 202,880
4, Electromechanical              LT             -              5,400         35,834        41,386         13,400         10,000         10,000           7,500           2,500             126,020
Equipment (Contract 1/ 3)    SFR           53,280         33,300         1,480         30,340         29,600          -              -               -              -                  94,720
5.  Engineering Services          LT           113,407         52,556         52,556        52,556         52,557         52,556         52,556          52,556          52,557             420,450
us$              100           185            185           i15             185            ,85           185             185             190               1,485
SFR           6,523          1,702          1,702          1,702          1,702         1,702          1,702           1,702           1,706              13,620
6.  Land Appropriation            IT            72,509      1,391,312     1,391,312        695,656        463,771        252,714          -               -               -               4,194,765              0
7.  Human Resettlement            LT             -              -           994,500      1,089,000      1,989,000      1,989,000        994,500           -                               7,956,000
Base Costs                LT        2,716,836      3,136,528      4,215,924      4,542,095      3,759,654     3,542,197      1,817,321         603,817         475,560          22,093,096
Us$          19,177         37,698         29,429         27,066        26,685         24,711         20,266          20,033          14,956             200,844
SFR         173,923        106,327          6,352         97,027        94,702          1,702          1,702           1,702           1,706             311,220
1'
Physical Contingencies-  LT              -           523,964        677,384        723,576        594,691       562,712        303,981         111,380          86,8S4           3,584,542
US$           -              7,908          5,754          5,281          5,205         4,810          4,025           3,979           2,963              39,425
SFR           -              5,316            318          4,851          4,735             85            85              85              85              15,560
Subtotals          Local'US$ eq.)    120,000          52,293         69,904         75,224         62,205         58,642        30,304          10,217           8,o34             366,823
Foreign (us$)      19,177        45,106         35,183         32,347         31,890         29,521        24,291          24,012          17,919             240,269
Foreign (SFR)    173,923        111,643          6,670        101,878         99,437          1,787          1,787          1,787           1,791             326,780
Price Cont'n-      Local(US$ eq.)        -             2,552         10,195         17,989         20,625         24,716        14,989           5,359           4,879             101,304
gencies 2/          Foreign (us$)       -              1,114         2,389          3,243          3,912          4,212          3,141             124            144               18,279
Foreign (SFR)       -              -             -              -              -              -              -              -               -
TOTALS              Local(UJS$ eq.)   120,000         54,845         80,099         93,213         82,830         83,358         45,293         15,576          12,913             468,127
Foreign (us$)      19,177        46,220         37,572         35,590         35,802         33,733         27,432         24,136          18,063             258,548
Foreign (SFR)    173,923        111,643          6,670        101,878         99,435          1,787          1,787           1,787          1,791              326,780
TOTAL PROJCFrT           Local         120,000         54,845        80,099         93,213         82,830         83,358         45,293          15,576         12,913              468,127
COSTS 'in US$)          Foreign       121 484       111 892         41,496         95 513-        94,294         34 784         28 483         25 187          19 117              450 771
Total   2      T4        4  84 1 667       121,595                       177,124 1t7k7l                730,7763                        32,930
1'  Physical contingencies assumed are: 20fo for item 2; 158 for items 1, 6 and 7; 5%  for items 3, 4 and 5.
Price contingencies were applied in accordance with the following annual rates: 1980 - 10.5%; 1981 - 9%;
1982 - PK; 1983/85 - 7% and 1986/87 - 6_.  Due to contract terms only 80% of Contract (Jo. 1 local costs                                                                                                
are subject to priceincrease.  Furthermore, this contract specifies fixed foreign exchange unit prices                                                                                                 H
and includes in its base costs 6% annual cost increases.  Therefore, price contingencies were calculated as
a difference between the expected price increases and the included 6%.  Prices in SFP are fixed.                                                                                                       0
Local costs in LT and foreign costs in SFR are converted in US$ equivalents using the following exchange rates:
us$1 = LT 70 and US$1 = SFR 1.70.
April 1980



- 66 -                                              ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(US$ Thousand Equivalent)
-LOCAL-       -------------FOREIGN------------            -TOTAL-
Direct      Indirect         Total
1. Preliminary and
Related Works                      32,072        10,382         2,047         12,429        44,501
2. Civil & Hydraulic
Works (Contract # 1)                81,101      188,977        16,611        205,588       286,689
3.  Turbines & Generators
(Contract # 2)                      2,280       119,341           116       119,457        121,737
4. Electromechanical Equip-
ment (Contract # 3)                  1,600       55,718           200         55,918         57,518
5.  Engineering Services                  6,oo6        9,497           -            9,497         15,503
6.  Land Appropriation                   59,925           _      -                    -           59,925
7.  Resettlement                        113,657           -            -              -          113,657
Base Costs                     296,641       383,915        18,974       402,889        699,530
Physical
Contingencies                  47,563        48,577         3,645        52,222         99,785
Price
Contingencies                  94,305        18,279         6,999        25,278        119,583
TOTAL                          438,509       450,771        29,618       480,389        918,898
Sunk Costs (1979 & before)    120,000        121,484           -         121,484        241,484
TOTAL PLUS SUNK COSTS          558,509       572,255        29,618       601,873      1,160,382
April 1980



5- __-T_  [JiZi=
CI -- - - - - - - -






- 68 -                     ANNEX 2.4
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Central Coordinating Committee
1.        A Central Coordinating Committee for the Karakaya project was
established in 1974 by the Government to secure coordination between
various engineering and administrative functions. The Chairman of the
Committee is the Under Secretary of the Ministry of Power and Natural
Resources which has jurisdiction over DSI and TEK.
2.        The following Ministries are permanent members of the Committee:
(a) Ministry of Power and Natural Resources
(b) Ministry of Transportation and Communication
(c) Ministry of Public Works
(d) Ministry of Finance
(e) Ministry of Village (Rural) Affairs
(f) Ministry of Industry
(g) Ministry of Customs
(h) State Planning Organization of Prime Ministers Office
3.        The following agencies or organizations are also permanent members
of the Committee:
(a) DSI
(b) TEK
(c) EIE
(d) Turkish State Railways
(e) State Highways
(f) Iller Bank
(g) Mapping Administration
When necessary, the Chairman of the Committee may invite other Government
agencies as temporary members.
December 1979






ANNEX 2.5
- 69 -                         Page l of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                                at end of Quarter
-----US$ Million-------
1981
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980                                                   12
March 31, 1981                                                      17
June 30, 1981                                                       23
1982
September 30, 1981                                                  27
December 31, 1981                                                   31
March 31, 1982                                                      35
June 30, 1982                                                       39
1983
September 30, 1982                                                  44
December 31, 1982                                                   49
March 31, 1983                                                      53
June 30, 1983                                                       57
1984
September 30, 1983                                                  62
December 31, 1983                                                   66
March 31, 1984                                                      70
June 30, 1984                                                       74
1985
September 30, 1984                                                  78
December 31, 1984                                                   82
March 31, 1985                                                      85
June 30, 1985                                                       89
1986
September 30, 1985                                                  93
December 31, 1985                                                   96
March 31, 1986                                                      99
June 30, 1986                                                      102
April 1980



ANNEX 2.5
-70 -                          Page 2 of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                           at end of Quarter
-----US$ Million--
1987
September 30, 1986                                           104
December 31, 1986                                             108
March 31, 1987                                                111
June 30, 1987                                                 114
1988
September 30, 1987                                            117
December 31, 1987                                             120
April 1980



- 71 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 1 of 18
TURKEY
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Studies of Reservoir Filling and Operation
For Projects on the Euphrates River
Introduction
1.        The use of the Euphrates River waters is a vital factor in the life
and economy of the riparian states of Turkey, Syria and Iraq, whether the
waters are used for domestic purposes, irrigation, power generation or the
abatement of salinity. Discussions between the three riparians on the sharing
of the Euphrates River waters have taken place intermittently since 1962. The
Bank has actively encouraged the riparians to discuss a long-term water sharing
agreement. At the request of a number of financing institutions interested in
the Keban hydropower project, which created a very large reservoir on the
Euphrates River in Turkey, the Bank undertook, in 1965, a study of interna-
tional water problems of the Euphrates River. The aim of the study was to
reach an independent and objective determination of acceptable passing water
rates during reservoir filling, also to identify long-term problems and suggest
means of solving them. In order to resolve the numerous problems already
identified and due to the continuing need for riparian cooperation, the estab-
lishment of an international tripartite commission for the Euphrates River was
proposed; however, this commission has never been established. In 1974 the
Bank Group made the loan/credit for the Balikh Irrigation Project, which
would require at its full development in 1986 the total net diversion of about
0.5 km3 of water from the Euphrates River, equivalent to two percent of the
average river flow at the Syrian-Iraq boundary. The Bank was satisfied that
this project was not harmful to the interests of the other riparians, since
the volume of water used by the Project was small and well within the allot-
ment to Syria under any equitable apportionment of the Euphrates waters, if
ever achieved. At that time, the Syrian Government advised the Bank Group
that it intends to operate the reservoir at Thawra in such a manner as to
assure that Iraq's requirements are reasonably covered, provided that needed
releases are made from the Keban reservoir.
2.        In late 1974, Bank Group staff, assisted by consultants, designed
and tested a simulation model of the Euphrates River which incorporated major
existing water storage structures in the Euphrates River system (Keban,
Thawra and Habbaniyah reservoirs) and the possibility of including major
planned projects (Karakaya, Karababa and Haditha). The purpose of the
model was to provide an instrument for investigating the operation of the
various water control facilities under different hydrological and water
demand conditions in the three riparian countries.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 2 of 18
3.        For the purpose of designing and testing the model, the input data
available to the Bank was used and where no information was available, reason-
able assumptions were made. The nature of the model and the details of the
input data used to test it are described in a draft report "Preliminary Study
of Reservoir Filling and Operation for Projects on the Euphrates River" dated
January 24, 1975. This report was transmitted to the Governments of Turkey,
Syria and Iraq in February 1975.
4.        In its present form, the simulation model is a useful tool for
investigating options for the management of the different water control
facilities in the river system. With more detailed input data and more
development work on the model, it could be of value in assisting in the
development of optimum rule curves for reservoirs within the river system
and for the real time operation of projects. The achievement of this longer
term aim would require detailed field investigations to provide the necessary
input data.
A. Preliminary Study of Reservoir Filling and Operation
for Projects on the Euphrates River
Basic Data and Assumptions
1.        The data base for this preliminary study has been derived from
information available and much of the information is indicative, rather than
precisely representative of actual conditions. However, the simulation model
developed in the study has been designed to accept revised or updated informa-
tion if and when it becomes available. Basic information contains hydro-
logical data, water demands for power and irrigation, projects data and
related assumptions. The schematic layout of developments in the Euphrates
River basin is given in Attachment 1 to this Annex.
Hydrological Data
2.        The Euphrates River drains portions of Turkey, Syria and Iraq.  The
principal gauging stations on the Euphrates River are Keban and Birecik in
Turkey, Thawra (formerly Tabqa) in Syria and Hit in Iraq. Average annual
recorded flow volumes at these stations are summarized below:



- 73 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 3 of 18
Average
Annual Recorded
Flow Volume
31 Year Average
Gauging             Catchment            Period of                  1938 - 1968
Station             Area km2              Record                        km3
Keban, Turkey         69,100             From August 1936              20.9
Birecik, Turkey      108,000             From March 1959               28.4
Thawra, Syria        120,650             From 1958                     28.1
Hit, Iraq            264,100             From 1924                     30.9
The average recorded flow data do not take account of any irrigation abstrac-
tions. For the purposes of the study, natural flows were estimated by making
allowances for historical irrigation uses of water. The estimated rates of
gross demand and return flow, indicative of present condition, used in the
analyses were as follows:
Turkey                            Syria
Return                           Return
Gross      Flow         Net       Gross      Flow        Net
Month              Demand   (m3/sec)    Demand        Demand  (m3/sec)    Demand
October              38         53          -15         73        70          3
November              -         30          -30         48        48         -
December              -         11          -11         29        22          7
January               -         -            -          29        14         15
February              -         -            -          42         9        33
March                 -         -            -         130         9       121
April                39         -            39        134        13        121
May                  90         -            90        197        39       158
June                168         12          156        256       40        216
July                198         27          171        278        59       219
August              176         50          126        235        77        158
September           101         59           42        161       83         78
Totals km3            2.14       0.64         1.50       4.25      1.25       3.00
Return flows were assumed to be at the rate of 30% delayed by two months.
3.        To assist in the selection of suitable periods of flow data, a
residual mass analysis was made of the natural flows at Keban for the period
1937 to 1968, from which the following hydrological sequences were selected
for simulation:



- 74 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 4 of 18
Mean Annual Discharge - km3
Sequence                      Keban      Birecik    "Khabour"      Hit
i)   Driest 10-year period         18.21       24.46         6.35       30.81
ii)   Driest  8-year period         16.76       22.80         5.63       28.43
iii)   Driest  5-year period         15.85       21.59         5.87       27.46
iv)   Driest year                   11.46       16.26         4.35       20.61
v)   10-year "average"
sequences - a)      21.56       28.69         3.97       32.66
b)     21.14       28.86         5.23       34.09
Long-term mean (1937-1968)          21.91       29.39         4.78       34.17
4.        Estimated average reservoir evaporations were taken into account;
but the introduction of other factors (valley and reservoir bank storages)
was not considered necessary at this stage of the study.
Power Demand
5.        A series of four hydropowerplants were planned in Turkey for devel-
opment on the Euphrates River. The most upstream of them, Keban, is in
operation with the first four generating units, while the remaining four units
are under construction. Each of these generating units has an output capacity
of 157.5 MW, making a total plant output of 1,260 MW. The next plant down-
stream, Karakaya, is currently under construction, with an installed capacity
of 1,800 MW in six units. The Golkoy project, next downstream of Karakaya,
was proposed as a 700 MW scheme, but in view of its insignificant storage
it has not been included in these evaluations, which have been developed
primarily to establish the effects of storage and regulation on water use
patterns. Downstream of Golkoy, the last projected Turkish hydropower project
was Karababa. This project was proposed as a multipurpose development with
an 800 MW installed capacity and provision for pumping of irrigation water
from the reservoir to the plains of the Southeastern Anatolian Region. In
the simulations it has been assumed that all the Turkish projects will be
operated, as far as possible, to provide long-term firm energy both during
initial filling and in subsequent operation. Secondary energy is generated
whenever the reservoirs would otherwise be spilling. The Preliminary Study
of Reservoir Filling and operation for projects on the Euphrates river does
not include the new Ataturk multipurpose hydropower project, which would
replace the previous Golkoy and Karababa projects. The total and useful
storage capacity of the Ataturk reservoir would be much larger than capacities
of Golkoy and Karababa; combined total and useful storage capacities of Golkoy
and Karababa were 16.27 km3 and 3.64 km3 -- respectively, the newly proposed
Ataturk reservoir would have the total storage capacity of 48.5 km3 with its
useful storage of 12.0 km3. Therefore, it would be necessary to test the new
Ataturk scheme in the computer simulation model, which investigates different
project operating principles in order to determine their effects on reservoir
filling under different hydrological situations, while satisfying the existing
and expected water consumption demands.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 5 of 18
6.        The Euphrates Dam project (Thawra) in Syria is intended to provide
additional regulation capacity to meet the requirements for irrigation and
supplement those for the Syrian power system.  Simulation runs considered
the proposed installation of eight units, each having a 103 MW capacity,
making a total plant output of 823 IP.  In the simulation runs, the Euphrates
Dam project was operated to guarantee at least irrigation demand, both in
Syria and Iraq, and to maximize the generation output without specific con-
straints requiring the plant to provide any minimum firm capacity.
7.        The Haditha project in Iraq, currently under construction, was not
simulated in detail, due to lack of project details. Therefore, the simula-
tion runs have assessed the energy portential of the project in terms of the
actual flows released to meet the selected irrigation demands and assumed
that the discharges, plus any spill flows, could be passed through turbines.
Lake Habbaniyah was operated in accordance with the irrigation requirements.
Irrigation Demand
8.        The current levels of extraction for irrigation and plans for devel-
opment in the riparian countries, are not precisely known. However, for the
purposes of the study, various assumptions were made on the basis of available
information. For assumptions used on current extractions for irrigation in
Turkey and Syria, estimates of area under irrigation, cropping intensities and
water diversion per hectare have been consolidated into the two variables of
area and depth of irrigation; for Iraq, actual intensities have been intro-
duced. The simulation model developed has been designed to illustrate any
constraints likely to arise through growth in irrigation abstraction, con-
current with the development of the series of 5 or 6 major storage regulation
projects along the main stem of the Euphrates River, over a period of ten
years. For this purpose, two rates of irrigation growth in each country have
been utilized in the simulations, representing full commissioning rates of
irrigated perimeters. The first, referred to as Rate 1, was proposed as one
estimate representative of a "probable" level of activity. Rate 2, irrigation
growth, proposed as "possible" level of activity, involves a doubli g of the
incremental irrigation in each of the riparian countries from that assumed in
Rate 1 throughout the simulation period. These rates of development have been
introduced solely for the purpose of testing the sensitivity of the simulation
runs to irrigation abstractions. In addition, subsequent tests have been made
at other rates of irrigation growth.
9.        The irrigation demands for each of the riparians for years one, ten
and twelve of simulations were as follows:



- 76 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 6 of 13
in km3
1974/75            1983/84              1985/86
Rate 1   Rate 2   Rate 1   Rate 2    Rate 1   Rate 2
Turkey /1                    1.50      1.50     1.72      1.95       1.77      2.04
Syria /2
U/S Euphrates Dam            0.0       0.0       1.57     2.39/3    1.75       2.39
D/S Euphrates Dam            3.03 /4  3.03      2.44      2.39       2.51      3.05
TOTAL             3.03      3.03     4.01      4.78       4.26      5.44
Iraq /1                     14.00    14.00    14.80    15.60        15.00    16.00
Euphrates Basin /2          18.53    18.53    20.53    22.24        21.03    23.48
/1   Demands in Turkey and Syria are net requirements:  demands in Iraq are
gross.
/2   For LTA /5 available flow of 34.17 km3 (natural flow) at Hit, allowing
for evaporation losses of 4.5 km3 (Keban + Karakaya + Karababa + Euphrates
+ Haditha = 4.5 km3/year; in Habbaniyah loss accounted for in irrigation
demand) water utilization is 75% by 1985/86 at Rate 1 growth and 82% at
Rate 2 growth.
/3   At Rate 2, ultimate development up-stream (U/S) of Euphrates Dam achieved
in year 9 of simulation.
/4   It may be noted that the apparent anomalies in irrigation demand down-
stream (D/S) of the Euphrates Dam arise from assumptions regarding the
transfer of demand from the lower Balikh basin, in year 2 of the simula-
tion, and the concentration of development U/S until Phase I of the
Balikh project has been completed. As a consequence, U/S abstractions
continue to increase (at gross rates) until ultimate development is
achieved, and return flows from this area are taken into account in
determining net D/S demands.
/5   LTA = long term average natural flows estimated from records covering
the period 1937/1968.
It may be noted that total irrigation abstractions from the basin would have
grown by 2.5 km3 for Rate 1 development and by some 5 km3 under Rate 2 by
1986/87. The riparian plans in some cases exceeded the assumptions for
irrigation requirements used in this study.
Project Data
10.       The program logic was prepared, using available data, to concen-
trate only on those factors of importance to the filling schedules. As
detailed rating of the turbine capacity and discharge under varying head



- 77 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 7 of 18
were1ngt available for projlces, simplifying assumptions that capacity varies
by H    and discharges by H    were adopted for all developments.  For the
purpose of these studies, these assumptions do not affect the conclusions
regarding water distribution throughout the system. With respect to energy
generation, although moderately underestimated for lower test conditions, the
differences between the various simulations would be little affected.
Operational Studies
11.       A mathematical model of the Euphrates River system with its in-
stalled and proposed develpment has been set up. In essence, the model
permits the simulated operation of all developments on the river, in accord-
ance with predetermined rules, under the influence of a variety of selected
hydrological sequences. Since the study has been aimed at a review of poten-
tial filling constraints, the model keeps a careful check of flow volume
movements, irrigation uses, evaporation losses and spilled water, but pro-
vides only an approximate assessment of power generation from the hydropower
developments. The model simulates one year at a time, thus facilitating the
input of physical and procedural changes on an annual basis and allowing for
the introduction of any  .equence of historical or synthetic hydrological data
that may be generated fur analysis.
12.       The several sequences of years from the historic record which were
selected from simulation in the mathematical model are specified in para 3.
Testing of the model was initiated with a sequence of synthetic average years
in order to gain insight into the modification of the natural flow regimen
accomplished by each addition to the system storage capacity. Attention was
focussed upon system constraints during the initial years of filling of each
of the major storage developments.
13.       The sequences represented a series of refinements made to the model
to enable a detailed investigation of system operation options. For power
operations, it has been assumed that the Turkish hydropower developments would
be operated to maximize energy generation, since this would be in accordance
with the known requirements of the Turkish power system. This model is also
satisfactory for the downstream riparians, since generation results in release
of water downstream. For Syria, operation under both firm capacity and maximum
energy modes have been simulated, since it was not known which mode would be
preferred. The most critical period for the river system was found to be the
initial years of reservoir filling. On the basis of the data used, it was
found that downstream demands were satisfied if the flow passing Birecik
was not allowed to fall below 350 m.3/sec in any one month, unless the average
inflows to Keban during the month were less than 350 m3/sec.  In that instance,
releases in addition to those for power generation would be needed, so that
the total monthly release from the Turkish power plants would not be less
than the actual inflows for the month. In practice, this mode of operation
would have tc be acb;-ved through a series of supplemental releases in the
month following, to make up any deficits.



- 78 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 8 of 18
14.       For the Syrian Euphrates Dam, a number of operational modes were
studied. It has been found that the most suitable operation of this project
is if reservoir releases meet irrigation demands downstream in Syria and Iraq,
reduced by the Khabour River flows and the return flows from upstream irriga-
tion, as well as adjustments for the filling and drafting of Habbaniyah
Reservoir. The Habbaniyah Reservoir has a limited available storage (2.9 km3)
and this is required to accomplish its necessary re-regulation; it appeared
that the Euphrates Dam project could assist in this re-regulation. In order
to supplement re-regulation at Habbaniyah, it was necessary to store 60 m3/sec
of the required outflows in the Euphrates Dam project during the first six
months of the water year, and to release an additional 60 m3/sec during the
second six months. This adjustment to the operational mode for the Euphrates
River project was referred to as the "Rule of + 60".
15.       On the basis of data used in this study, the simulation has demon-
strated that it is possible to sustain the current level of abstractions for
irrigation in each of the riparian countries, as well as meet an increase in
these demands during the studied ten years, while concurrently meeting Turkish
and Syrian requirements for power generation, provided certain principles of
operation are adhered to. It has been found that during the ten years, the
storage projects Karakaya and Karababa in Turkey and the Haditha project in
Iraq could proceed without constraint upon growth in irrigation demands. Syria
would benefit in most years, both in terms of increased power generatior. and
through flood abatement, from the regulation imposed upon the flows in Turkey
by the storage projects on the Euphrates River.
16.       The study revealed that, if the various interests of the riparians
are to be satisfied materially under all conditons which can reasonably be
anticipated, these major developments cannot proceed without some basic
principles governing their operation, with a common understanding of these
principles and their importance among the riparians. The simulation model has
been made to conform to current understanding of the various interests of each
of the riparians during the ten year period. Thus, for Turkey, it is under-
stood that the objective is to maximize energy generation for the sequence of
the projects along the main stem of the Firat River, until diversion for the
Lower Firat irrigation program begins; for Syria, it is essential to meet
irrigation demands and at the same time generate maximum hydroelectric energy,
to replace more costly thermal energy within the Syrian power system; and for
Iraq, the essential interest is to obtain sufficient flows, distributed over
the year, in a pattern which will satisfy extensive irrigation demands.
17.       It is apparent from the various conditions simulated that the first
years will be the most difficult, should unusually low flow conditions occur.
Nevertheless, in this event, provided appropriate minimum releases are made
from the Turkish projects, in combination with specific arrangements for
maximum energy operation under prescribed minimum plant load factors, suffi-
cient flows will be provided to meet the needs of the downstream riparians.
In addition, Turkey will obtain the maximum energy contribution possible
under the prevailing conditions. Similarly, a predetermined mode for the



- 79 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 9 of 18
opration of the Syrian Euphrates project needs to be established. Several
possible modes of operation have been assessed and it would appear to be
possible to approach yearly averaged releases to meet downstream demands
relying on Habbaniyah, in Iraq, for re-regulation. On this basis, Syria can
adopt either a maximum-energy mode or a firm-capacity mode, whichever better
suits her system power requirements, and Iraq will continue to receive ade-
quate water supplies to meet its irrigation demands. The Habbaniyah Reservoir
in Iraq, supported by a semi-annual re-regulation at the Assad Reservoir in
Syria, appears to provide adequate re-regulation capacity to meet Iraq's irri-
gation requirements, except under conditions relating to extreme low yield
from the Khabour tributaries. It has been found that during the initial years
of the studied decade, should the Khabour tributaries yield less than 60%
of their long-term average, Iraq would need to obtain, on an ad hoc basis,
supplemental releases from storage in Syria. Several simulations runs have
been made which included the proposed Haditha project. These indicated that
the project would provide Iraq with a substantial energy generation capability,
although, at the same time, it would increase the total annual evaporation
losses from the Euphrates system. The projected storage re-regulation capab-
ility does not appear to be necessary to support irrigation during the period
covered, as is borne out by the simulation of the Habbaniyah capacity to
achieve this purpose.
18.       Tentative principles for operation of the Turkish, Syrian and Iraqi
reservoir storage projects were developed, using the model, to overcome
failure of the system, simulated by the model. They have been simulated
to meet operational requirements and demonstrate the practical application
of the model, and are formulated on the basis of data input described pre-
viously. The operation of the Turkish projects would need to conform to a
schedule of minimum load factors and planned installation schedules which,
in combination with minimum releases rule, will ensure that adequate water
supplies are passed to the downstream riparians. At present Iraq has a
limited re-regulation capability in the existing Habbaniyah Reservoir.
Nevertheless, except under abnormally low yields from the "Khabour" tribu-
taries, it has been found adequate for re-regulation of the flows passed
by Syria through the Euphrates Dam, in accordance with certain operating
principles, which at the same time ensure that Syria will obtain maximum
energy benefits as well as meeting downstream irrigation requirements.
B. Study of Reservoir Filling of the Karakaya Hydropower Project
Scope of Study
1.        As a part of the evaluation of the Karakaya hydropower project,
a more detailed assessment is required of the effects on the downstream
riparians of alternative reservoir filling schedules at Karakaya. In this
study, appropriate analyses have been completed and procedures to be fol-
lowed by both Turkey and Syria during the filling period of the Karakaya
reservoir have been recommended. The simulation model, as developed for the



- 8O -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 10 of 18
previous study, was also used in this study. Changes to the model were
limited to those essential to the specific requirements of the study. All
newly available information has been incorporated into this study, particu-
larly the hydrological data presented in the Aide-Memoire entitled "Plan
of Karakaya Reservoir Filling Operation" prepared by the Government of
Turkey and submitted to the Bank in September 1975.
Study Assumptions
2.         The main assumptions examined in the study were:
(a) The minimum monthly mean flow at Birecik should not fall below
500 m3/sec;
(b) Assessments should consider both low and average water years;
(c) The study should consider both the intended closure dates
for Karakaya, in March and September, to allow for possible
slippage in the construction schedule;
(d) Assessment should be made of the effects of regulating
discharges for Keban at both 600 and 900 m3/sec; and
(e) Initial reservoir conditions at both Keban and Assad should
be based upon interpretations of available data.
In the study, specific determination of the following has been made:
(a) The effect on Syria if releases from the Euphrates Dam were
maintained to meet the indicated needs in Iraq;
(b) The effects on Iraq if Syria operate normally for power
and energy;
(c) The time required to fill the Karakaya reservoir; and
(d) Suggested operating criteria modification that would be
required to mitigate undesirable effects of (a), (b) and
(c) above.
Operational Studies
3.         In accordance with the information provided in the Aide-Memoire,
all Turkish hydrological data for the period 1936/37 to 1971/72 have been
amended to conform with the newly prepared data base. No changes in power
and irrigation demand data have been made with the exeption that, for Turkey,
no growth has been assumed beyond the status estimated for 1974/75. The
analysis has demonstrated that, without detriment to the overall interest
of Turkey or either of the downstream riparians, Karakaya can be filled
to minimum generating level (670 m.a.s.l.), in accordance with the rules



- 81 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 11 of 18
recommended, within a period of three to seven months. Thereafter, without
significantly affecting the downstream riparians, Turkey could operate
Karakaya either to fill as rapidly as possible or for maximum energy output,
as best suits her interests, provided such operation is effected subject to
the limit of a minimum discharge of 500 m3/sec at Birecik. During the filling
of the Karakaya reservoir, monthly flows entering the Euphrates Dam reservoir
in Syria will be less than would otherwise occur. While this retention of
water by Turkey is taking place, a drawdown of the Euphrates Dam reservoir
should occur if Syria continues to meet the needs of Iraq, as well as her own
requirements for irrigation and power. Nevertheless, on the basis of the
comparisons made, it was estimated that the maximum drawdown of the Euphrates
Dam reservoir during this period would be less than 1.5 km3 and would depend
on the specific option selected by Turkey for operation at Karakaya after the
level in that reservoir has risen above the minimum generating elevation. If
Syria attempts to retain water in her reservoir while Karakaya is filling,
she will forego power generation benefits that are available without risk to
her future interests. Once Karakaya has been filled, it will be in Turkey's
best interests to operate both Keban and Karakaya for maximum power generation.
The Euphrates Dam reservoir would then be filled rapidly, as a consequence of
the improved regulation of all upstream flows. During the somewhat increased
drawdown period, Syria will benefit from normal energy output by continuing
to release water according to the maximum energy "Rule of + 60 m3/sec". If
Syria operates her Euphrates project in accordance with this rule, Iraq's
interests would be safeguarded. Retaining water because of temporarily
reduced inflows from Turkey would only reduce Syria's immediate energy
benefits and result in larger volumes of spill once Karakaya has been filled.
Operating Rules
4.        Using the estimates available to the Bank (which could not be veri-
fied) of present water diversions and their projected growth, described in
the January 1975 Report, the model has been used to investigate different
options for water management during the period of construction, filling and
operation of the proposed Karakaya hydropower dam in Turkey between 1975/76
and 1984/85. On the basis of the investigation, tentative principles for
the operation of the Turkish, Syrian and Iraqi reservoir storage projects
were developed and tested, which would ensure that the interests of each
of the riparians were safeguarded. Basically, the operation of the Turkish
projects was tested according to the schedule of planned power units' in-
stallation and operating schedules which, in combination with minimum release
arrangements, would ensure adequate water supplies being passed to the down-
stream riparians. This was done in conjunction with the assumption of
specific operational procedures in Syria and Iraq during the construction,
initial filling and operation of the Karakaya Dam. The operating principles
developed using the model are summarized below.
5.        Turkey.  During construction, filling and operation of the Karakaya
Dam, the Keban and Karakaya projects would need to be operated in such a



- 82 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 12 of 18
manner as to ensure that the flow of the Euphrates River as it leaves Turkey
at Birecik will average not less than 500 cubic meter per second. The aver-
aging period would be not greater than one month and any shortfalls in one
period would be made up in the immediately succeeding period. This criterion
has been called the "Rule of 500".
6.        Syria.  On the basis of the assumptions of present irrigation
diversion demands, of hydrological data and the January 1975 Report, water
availability downstream of the Thawra Dam would consistently exceed demand in
Syria and Iraq over the ten-year period covered by the model. In order to
guarantee such availability, during the months October through March, the
average outflow from the Thawra Dam in any one month would need to be equal
to, or greater than, the result of (a) the predetermined average net irriga-
tion demand for the water year in Syria below the Thawra Dam, plus (b) the
predetermined average gross irrigation demand for the water year in Iraq,
less (c) the long-term mean natural "Khabour" flow, which is estimated at
140 cubic meters per second, less (d) 60 cubic meter per second. During
the months April through September, the average outflow from the Thawra Dam
in any one month would need to be equal to, or greater than, the result of
(a) the predetermined average net irrigation demand for the water year in
Syria below the Thawra Dam, plus (b) the predetermined average gross irriga-
tion demand for the water year in Iraq, less (c) the long term natural
"Khabour" flow plus (d) 60 cubic meters per second.
7.        On the basis of the assumptions used in the January 1975 Report,
the minimum monthly releases required from the Thawra Dam in 1976/77 would
be as follows:
October through March                310 m3/sec
April through September              430 m3/sec
These minimum releases would need to be increased over time to take account
of the actual growth in water use in Syria and Iraq downstream of the Syrian
Euphrates Project. Typical projected values for required minimum flows in
1984/85 would be as follows:
October through March                360 m3/sec
April through September              480 m3/sec
These flows would be augmented by inflows from tributaries to the Euphrates
River joining the river downstream of the Syrian Euphrates Project (such as
the Khabour River).
8.        Actual average flows at Hit over the period covered are shown by
the model to be substantially in excess of the above discharges, except
during the four to seven months initial filling period of Karakaya, when
the minima are required to be applied in successive months.



- 83 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 13 of 18
9.         Iraq.  Flows reaching Ramadi Barrage from upstream which are in
excess of downstream irrigation requirements, would need to be diverted into
the Habbaniyah reservoir to the extent such excess flows can be stored there.
This reservoir should at all times be maintained as full as possible. Water
would be drafted from the Habbaniyah reservoir via the Dibban Canal only in
such amounts as are needed whenever the flows passing the Ramadi Barrage are
less than the irrigation requirements.
Monitoring Arrangements
10.       In order to ensure that the operating principles described above
are effectively coordinated, it would be essential for river flows at
critical points in the river system, as well as reservoir levels and dis-
charges, to be continuously monitored and for the recorded information to
be made available to each of the riparian countries. Such an exchange of
data is, to a large extent, already allowed for under existing arrangements
between the three countries. Monthly Euphrates River flows in 1977-1979 are
given in Attachment 2 to this Annex.
Applicability of the "Rule of 500"
11.       The time period that has been simulated by the model is the ten year
period 1975/76 through 1984/85. The expected increases in water demands, due
to the expansion of irrigation in all countries, and the filling and operation
of the Karakaya Dam, have been allowed for and are adequately covered by the
application of the proposed operating principles. However, the implementation
of any new large consumptive projects on the river system, such as the Haditha
Dam in Iraq, the Khabour Dam in Syria or the Karababa (Ataturk) Dam and irri-
gation system in Turkey, may require an amendment to the principles in order
to take account of the new situation created by such new projects. These
amendments would have to be the subject of further discussions and agreement
between the riparian countries.
C. Syrian Comments on the Proposed Operating Rules
for Projects on the Euphrates River
After receiving Turkish agreement on the operational criteria
and monitoring arrangements, the Bank informed the lower riparians of the
Turkish proposal and invited their comments. Syria, in a letter dated
October 16, 1976, made in essence the following remarks on the proposed
operating rules of the Karakaya hydropower project:
1.        The proposed "Rule of 500" and the related conditions may signify
that out of the 28 km3 average yearly flow of the Euphrates River reaching
the Syrian boundaries during construction and after operation of the Karakaya
Dam, only 15.7 km3 (or nearly only 55%) of the flow will be for the use of
the two downstream (Syria and Iraq), and the rest, or 45%, of the flow will
be for the exclusive use of Turkey. Taking into consideration all relevant
factors on the subject and remembering that rainfall in the Turkish region



- 84 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 14 of 18
is more than double that in the Syrian and Iraq regions, Syria believes that
any rule involving such highly unfair rates of distribution cannot be consid-
ered acceptable.
2.        The filling period of the Karakaya reservoir to the operating level
should be studied on the basis of one or more flood seasons, depending on the
prevailing conditions of the hydrological years, and not on the basis of three
to seven months during one single season, as proposed. Syria believes that
agreement on a special time filling program should be reached between the
three riparian countries before allowing any storage in the Karakaya Reservoir,
to ensure that no harm is caused to any side during the filling period.
3.        The need for maximum power generation from the Thawra power station
has, strangely, been overlooked in the analysis of the proposal submitted and
in the Bank's draft report. While admitting that priority in the use of the
Euphrates River waters should be given to irrigation, Syria cannot see why
her right to utilize fully the available flow of the River in maximum power
generation, until the land reclamation projects of Turkey and those of the
upstream areas of Syria are completed, should be overlooked.
4.         Syria finds that many of the assumptions and data used in the
analysis of the proposal and the draft report, need to be reconsidered and
corrected. As examples, Syria cited the following points:
(a) The long term mean natural flow of the Khabour River was
estimated in the Aide-Memoire to be 140 m3/sec. This
figure is highly exaggerated and is nearly three times
the actual mean discharge of the River. It should be
remembered also that this discharge will be greatly
reduced in the future, when the Turks will gradually
exploit some of the water resources in their region.
(b) It is assumed in the Bank's report that the return flow
in Turkey and Syria will be taken as 30%, and in Iraq
as 0%. Such an assumed percentage in the Syrian reach
is unreasonably high, taking into consideration that
irrigation canals will all be lined with concrete and
that special measures for raising efficiency in the use
of irrigation waters on farm levels would be sought and
adopted.
(c) In the estimate of the volume of flow of tributaries in
the Syrian reach of the Euphrates Basin, the surface
runoff of Wadi Hauran (which is in the range of nearly
1 km3/year) is wrongly added to Syrian water resources;
it should be added to Iraqi resources and deleted from
Syrian.



- 85 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 15 of 18
(d) The assumption that the average areas to be reclaimed annually
in Syria until 1986 shall run between the limits of 10,000-20,000
hectares, seems to contradict greatly the present state policies
in Syria. The current five-year plan requires the reclamation of
240,000 hectares. Even if practical difficulties and obstruc-
tions make this goal hard to attain, with the great importance
and priority given by the state to land reclamation projects,
Syria feels that the rate of land development realized will be
higher than the low rates assumed in the Bank's analysis, and
the consequent water requirements will, therefore, be much
higher.
5.        With the proposal presented in the Bank's letter of July 12, and
the attached Aide-Memoire, two further obligations on the Syrian side were
implied:
(a) That Syria should store in the Assad reservoir about 1 km3/year
for the exclusive benefit of Iraq.
(b) That no modification of the criteria proposed in the "Rule of 500",
necessitated by projects to be implemented in the Euphrates Basin,
could be made, nor could any such projects be started, until
agreement of all riparian countries was attained.
6.        The Syrian side considers the imposition of such unilateral obliga-
tions, before reaching full agreement between the three riparian countries
on all matters concerning the long range distribution of water rights in the
river, unacceptable. Syria expressed its readiness to cooperate fully with
all sides in seeking a quick and final solution to all problems concerning
the Euphrates waters, with due consideration to the interests and welfare of
all people of the riparian countries. Furthermore, Syria indicated that no
fair and equitable solution could ever be reached unless specialists from
the three riparian countries could meet to establish the coordinated data,
the agreed upon assumptions, and methods of approach on the basis of which
a scientific study of the subject is to be made. They further believe that
only after such essential data and basic assumptions are agreed upon among
the specialists of the riparians, will the assistance and the valuable
efforts of the Bank be of real value, and may yield positive results.
7.        Finally, Syria pointed out that the degree of dependence of the
future growth of the Syrian national economy on the proper and full utiliza-
tion of her legitimate share of the Euphrates waters is, in fact, by far
higher in Syria than in the other riparian countries. It would be difficult
for Syria, therefore, to tolerate the exposure of all her future development
to any probable uncertainties.



- 86 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 16 of 18
D. Analysis of Concerns Expressed by Syria Related to the Proposed
Operating Rules for Projects on the Euphrates River
Syria's comments on the operating rules for projects on the Euphrates
River were analyzed in detail by the Bank staff and consultants. The Bank's
observations on these remarks were forwarded to Syria and no further responses
have been received. The analysis of the Syrian comments has revealed the
following:
1.        "Rule of 500".  Apparently, Syria did not realize fully the real
meaning of the "Rule of 500". The proposed "Rule of 500" and the suggested
operating rules do not imply any long-term water sharing agreement between
riparians of the average yearly flow reaching the Turkish-Syrian border, as
indicated in the Syrian comments. Although Karakaya is not a water consump-
tive project, its filling and operation under the "Rule of 500" is designed
to assure the lower riparians that, at any time during construction, filling
and operation of this project, the flows of the Euphrates River as it leaves
Turkey at Birecik - whether in dry or wet water years - will average no less
than 500 m3/sec. Thus, it will ensure that present and forecast irrigation
needs in Syria and Iraq are fully met, and benefit from the regulation pro-
vided by the upstream Turkish reservoirs. Water consumptive requirements
in the three riparian countries over the coming decade do not reflect the
longer-term needs at full development of the economically irrigable area.
This is also the reason why the "Rule of 500" would have to be renegotiated
by the riparians before the start of any new large water consumptive projects
on the Euphrates River.
2.        Filling of Karakaya Reservoir.  With regard to Syria's proposal that
an agreement on a filling program be reached among the riparians before allow-
ing any storage in the Karakaya reservoir, attention again must be drawn to
the fact that under the "Rule of 500", Turkey would be obligated to ensure
that the flow at Birecik would average no less than 500 m3/sec. The filling
time for Karakaya to reach an operating level has been estimated at 3 to 7
months, depending on actual water flows at the time of closure. The obliga-
tion under the "Rule of 500" to release no less than 500 m3/sec at Birecik
clearly implies that, if actual conditions would not permit filling within
this time period, the necessary adjustments must be made and the filling
period extended as required.
3.        Thawra Power Plant Generation.  The need for maximum power genera-
tion from the Thawra power plant has not been overlooked, as stated in Syria's
comments. In the analysis it has been assumed that the Thawra (the Euphrates
Dam Project) would be operated to generate maximum energy, which is consis-
tent with the needs of the Syrian power system. Operations of Thawra have
been studied in order to achieve maximum power generation, but it has been
found that the "maximum energy" criterion was a more conservative assumption,
and this was therefore adopted for the model runs.



- 87 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 17 of 18
4.         Assumptions and Data Used in Studies
(a) Khabour River Flows. Hydrological data regarding the Khabour river
at Sour are not comparable to what the January 1975 Report called the "natural
Khabour flows". The latter, as explained in paras 2.10 and 2.11 of that
report, have been derived, because of lack of data on the inflows between
Thawra and Hit, from the historical data at the Birecik and Hit stations.
Thus, the "natural Khabour flows", as used in the report, include not only
the Khabour proper, but also all other tributary flows between Thawra and Hit,
including the runoff from the Balikh River as well as other minor perennial
and ephemeral streams - such as the Wadi Hauran - or resurgent inflows between
Thawra and Hit. They also include estimates of historical net irrigation ab-
stractions that have been added to the recorded discharges. It is not implied
in the model that these flows should be added to Syrian water resources, but
merely that they should be taken into account for the purposes of evaluating
water balance within the Euphrates System. Until better data are available,
especially clarification of the poor correlation of the recorded monthly dis-
charges at Birecik and Hit, it is believed that these "natural Khabour flows"
are reasonable estimates for the purposes of the simulation model.
(b) Return Flows. Regarding Syria's comment that the assumed return
flows at a rate of 30%, delayed by two months, are unreasonably high in view
of the proposed concrete lining of irrigation canals and measures to improve
water efficiency at the farm level in Syria. In the absence of specific data
on return flows, the original assumption of a 30% return flow, which is con-
sistent with the data collected in connection with the Balikh project, is
still considered realistic. From experience elsewhere, it has been concluded
that rates of much less than the assumed 30% would indicate either an ex-
tremely efficient utilization or a water deficiency situation. Any reasonable
changes in the return flow data are likely to show only a marginal change in
the resulting flow, since in deriving the "Khabour flows" used in the model,
the return flow assumption is used on both sides of the equation - that is,
if a lower return flow is used, then the derived Khabour flow would also be
reduced. For example, the change in the resulting downstream flow by assuming,
say, a 15% return flow (instead of 30%), would be something less than 20 m3/
sec, which is negligible considering the quality of the input data.
(c) Rate of Land Development. The model in the preliminary study had
assumed a rate of land development of 10,000 ha per year as "possible" in
the Euphrates Valley in Syria. Although development of about 240,000 by
the end of 1980, as indicated in the Syrian comments, would be difficult
to achieve given the existing constraints, it certainly would be possible
to review in the model the possible effects of higher land development rates
than had been assumed, if details of the proposed Project 5 for the devel-
opment of 240,000 ha can be made available. A Bank
mission to Syria was informed that the target for the Plan period would be
reduced to 120,000 ha, and that irrigated land in the Euphrates area was
going out of cultivation because of the increasing rate of salinity.



- 88 -
ANNEX 2.6
Page 18 of 18
5.        "Unilateral Obligations".  Syria has expressed concern that new
obligations would be unilaterally imposed on her side if the proposed rule
is applied. These are basically related to the operational mode of the Assad
reservoir in Syria. With the release of water from the Karakaya reservoir by
Turkey in accordance with the "Rule of 500", water availability downstream of
the Thawra dam is expected consistently to exceed demand in Syria and Iraq
over the ten-year period covered by the model, provided the Assad reservoir
is operated in accordance with the proposed "Rule of + 60". As long as Turkey
releases an average discharge of 500 m3/sec at Birecik (which it would be ob-
ligated to do under the proposed "Rule of 500"), Syria would not have to meet
a flow deficiency from its Assad Reservoir storage resources. On the other
hand, Syria would be expected, under the proposed rules, to utilize its storage
reservoir to re-regulate the available water supply in its own interests and
those of Iraq. The need for storage in the Assad reservoir under the proposed
rules would cause Syria to reduce neither energy production nor water use for
irrigation, and in fact, appears to be an optimum or near optimumn operating
rule for the reservoir. Under the proposed "Rule of 500" and related pro-
posals (including the "Rule of + 60"), it is believed that Syria would have
ample water availability and more flexibility than either of its riparian
neighbors to meet unusual situations and still operate within the rules.
6.        In summary, the analysis of Syria's comments has revealed that the
operating rules for Karakaya meet the needs of the riparians without adversely
affecting the interests of any of them, although there would always be scope
for further optimization. Since Turkey has formally conveyed to Syria and
Iraq its proposal to operate Karakaya under the "Rule of 500", and also
invited both Governments to initiate tripartite discussions on monitoring
arrangements and on the better use of common waters, it is expected that
Syria will also clarify her comments with Turkey. Therefore, in view of the
above explanations, it is clear that Syria's comments do not contain valid
quantified or substantiated objections to the proposed operational rules.



- 89 -                                              ANNEX 2.6
Attachment 1
TURKEY
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Schematic Layout of Developments in the Euphrates River Basin
KEBAN RESERVOIR &
POWER PLANT
G*         <  ATATURK RESERVOIRK
Y   & POWER PLANT           KARAKAYA RESERVOIR
POWEREPHTS\ DAN & POWER PLANT
t   ^   *      *KOMURHAN  G . S   KEBAN  G . S  ...............................~~~~~~. ................ ....
THAWRA G.s. ~ ~      ~      K                      KEANG..::
I       NFUTURE IRRIGATION
SR  IRRIGATION
HADITHA RASSAD RESERVOIR
EUPHRATES DAM & POWER PLANT
J THEWRA GPS.
S IRRIGATION
TIGABOUR" INFLOWS
SYIRIA        D       I  GATION
IRAQ                                                                                     2
jXHADITHA RESERVOIR                   LEGEND:
/ \& POWER PI-ANT
/  \                               h   ~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING PROJECTS
LAE     HIT G.S.                                   D    FUTURE PROJECTS
HABBANIYAH
; ;                                  *     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAUGING STATIONS (G.S.)
L*-         TIGRIS LINK CANAL
IRRIGATION DEMANDS IN IRAQ
World Bank -21 216



ANNEX 2.6
- 90 -                                  Attachment 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Recorded Monthly Euphrates River Flows
(m3/sec.)
1977             1978           1979
GAUGING STATION
Keban
October                   475               464            518
November                  492               478            545
December                  508               477            561
January                   635               483            533
February                  644               498            531
March                      787              502            563
April                   1,201               906            549
May                     1,412             1,974            546
June                    1,368            1,146
July                      517              413
August                     343              633
September                 371              522
Birecik
October                   771               639            696
November                   794              680            707
December                1,032               788            832
January                 1,060            1,015          1,114
February                1,175            1,272             988
March                   1,477            1,137             980
April                   1,839            1,410             953
May                     2,145             2,598            794
June                    1,843            1,603
July                      737               677
August                    499               792
September                 507              682
December 1979



- 91 -                    ANNEX 2.6
Attachment 3
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Verbatim Excerpt of Proceedings of the Budgetary Session of
General Assembly of the Parliament During Which
His Excellency the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources
Mr. Deniz Baykal Made a Speech in Connection with Karakaya Project
on February 23, 1979
"As you know, the Karakaya Project is an energy-purpose project,
capable of producing 1,800 MW, and it will contribute considerably both in
our country and other riparian countries and increase the welfare of our
countries by further regulating the Euphrates River as was the case in the
realization of the Keban Dam. Undoubtedly, the initial filling stage of
the reservoir has significant important in the construction of dams of this
size. Being conscious of this phenomenon, regulating of Euphrates River
waters during the initial filling in accordance with the needs has been
decided. Therefore, during the construction, initial filling and operation
stages of the Karakaya Project, the monthly average amount of flow of the
Euphrates River waters will not fall below 500 cubic meters of water per
second as measured at the city of Birecik; any shortfall in such flow,
will be made up during the next following month by releasing an additional
volume of water. The above measures will be applied unless very abnormal
hydrometeorological conditions exist and as long as Turkey has not developed
a project causing a level of consumptive use of the River's waters in its
territories."
January 1980



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
TFK's Tncome Statements for the Vears
Ended December 31, 1973-1979
(LT Millions)
A C T U A L                                            ESTIMATED
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978               1979
TEK'S SALES                                                                                __
Sales - GWh                                                     9,344        10,239      12,183       14,640       16,213       16,897            18,282
Average Revenue per kWh (kurus)                                    26.05         39.39        40.07       42.19        56.39        83.12             123.42
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales                                                           2,435        4,033        4,882        6,178        9,144       14,044            22,564
Other                                                             -            -             -           459          873        1,472             1,757
TOTAL REVENUES                                   2.435         4,033       4.882        6,637       10.017       15 516            24,321
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel - Coal                                                       187           193          207         219          400          769               819
- Lignite                                                   102           101          206          151          225          784             3,141
- Fuel Oil                                                  588         1,377        1,203        1,142        1,622        2,429             5,880
- Gas Oil                                                   233           562          550          460        1,542        1,474             1,380
Purchased Power                                                    71           221          519         480          376          997             1,795
Materials                                                          34            39           49          185         139          247                267
Wages and Salaries                                                220           357          486          851       1,197        1,980             3,063
Miscellaneous Expenses                                             50            66           74           59         102          146                256
Depreciation                                                      590           668        1,059       1,251        1,581        3,045             5,000      1
Taxes other than Income Taxes                                       5             6            8           38          13           14                 19     %
Income Taxes                                                       63            54           35         510          825          495               -
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                         2,143         3,644        4,346                    8,022       12,380            21, 620
NET OPERATING INCOME                                                292           389          486        1,291       1,995        3,136              2,701
OTHER INCOME (LOSS)                                                   9           (55)         (67)         (91)        (520)     (1,345)              (888)
GROSS INCOME                                       301           334          419       1,200        1.475        1,791              1,813
INCOME DEDUCTIONS
Total Interest Expense                                            295           470          708          980       1,323        1,886             2,715
Less Interest Charged to Construction                              82           212          337         492          735          787              1,365
NET INTEREST EXPENSE                               213           258          371         488          588        1 099              1.350
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                                    88            76           48          712          887         692                463     LO
AVERAGE REVALUED NET FIXED ASSETS IN SERVICE                     10,645        17,132       20,817       31,465      56,116       80,766            103,500
RATE OF RETURN                                                        2.7           2.3          2.3          4.1          3.6          3.9               2.6
January 1980



- 93 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Objectives and Method of Monitoring TEK's Cash Generation
Objectives of a Cash Generation Covenant
Electric utilities require very large investments in plant for the
generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity. In order to
achieve the desired financing of investments in the electric power subsector
of Turkey the investments of DSI for hydroelectric power should be added to
TEK's investments to obtain the total power subsector investments in generation
facilities. During discussions with the negotiations for Loan 1194-TU the
policy of transferring assets from DSI to TEK was discussed including the
transfer of the associated debts for the assets transferred from DSI to
TEK. It would therefore be necessary to transfer the associated debts with
the assets to TEK.
The objectives of attaining, in a given time, the desired 35% of
the total electric investments of TEK and DSI could be achieved through the
application of a cash generation covenant. However, the achievement of the
desired investment mix would require realistic financial planning and close
coordination between the Ministry of Finance, SPO, TEK, and DSI to establish
annual investment programs of TEK and DSI based on the planned financial
performance of TEK. TEK should have the overall responsibility of preparing
the proposed investment program for the next fiscal year, and should prepare
a statement for the proposal and recommendations to Government exhibiting in
a financial format TEK's sales, revenues, and operating expenses to produce
the agreed cash generation required to meet the investment needs for the
fiscal year.
Method of Monitoring the Cash Generation Covenant
To monitor TEK's financial performance under a cash generation
covenant it would be necessary for Government to:
1.   Submit to the Bank by December 31, 1980 (and by December 31 each
year thereafter) the following:
(a) the total planned power subsector investments, including
interest charged during construction, for TEK and DSI for the
next year;
(b) TEK's financial forecasts for the next year; and
(c) proposals of actions required for meeting the agreed amounts of
the internal cash generation requirement based on the above
investment program and the financial forecasts of TEK.



- 94 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page lof 2
2.   After the end of TEK's fiscal year, but not later than May 31 of
1981 (and each subsequent year) submit to the Bank TEK's actual
financial performance as compared to the plan in 1. above in achiev-
ing the internal cash generation as agreed. Any shortfall would be
required to be made up within the next fiscal year; or any surplus
would be applied to the next fiscal year. The 1980-1986 investment
plan as presented indicates a rather level investment plan. But
should the annual investments become "lumpy" (excessively high) in a
given year, then an averaging method of calculating the investments
over three years would be considered to prevent very high tariff
increases in a given year to meet the desired cash generation amount.
April 1980



- 95 -
T U R K E Y
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT                                            ANNF- ,.
TEK'S CASH GENERATION AND POWER
SUBSECTOR INVESTMENTS OF TEK AND DSI
US$ Millions
Exchange Rate TL70=US$1.00
E S T I M A T E D                                            TOTAL
1980        1981         1982         1983        1984         1985         1986           1980-1986
TEK's SALES
Sales - Gl-                                                     19,500 2  22,164         26,400       30,800       34,500       38,300      42,500
Average Sales Price per kWh c                                        4.0 -        6.0          7.0          7.5          7.8         8.0          8.0
TEK's INCOME AND EXPENSES
Operating Revenues
Sales                                                            780        1,330        1,848       2,300        2,690        3,064       3,400
Other                                                             30           35           40          45           45           45           45
Total Revenues                                  810        1,365        1,888       2,345        2,735        3,109        3,445
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                                             318          429          500         700          685          595         410
Purchased Power                                                   32           68           75          -            -            -            -
Materials                                                          8           21           35          64           95          141          148
Wages and Salaries                                                60          120          P55         225          307          360          375
Misceelaneous a7d Other                                            8           23           55          92          125          165          180
Depreciation  3                                                  145          195          285         390          500          680         800
Total Operating Expenses                        571          856        1.105       1.471        1,71         1,94i        1,913
Operating Income                                                 239          509          783         874        1,023        1,168        1,532
Incooe Tao                                                        53          150         300          275          220          185         212
Net Operating Income                            186          359         483          599          803          983        1,320
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS Al                                        3,300        4,700        6,100       8,200       10,500       13,500       16,500
RATE OF RETURN - After Iscome T.a                                       5.6         7.6          7.9          7.3         7.4          7.3          8.0
- Before Insome Tas                                     7.2        10.8         12.8         10.7         9.7          8.7          9.3
INVESTMENTS
TEK                                                                1,146      1,569        1,805       2,141        2,097        2,353        3,052         14,163
DSI                                                                  389        489         566          584          618          732          729          4,107
Total Invest-ests                               1,535      2,058        2,371       2,725        2,715        3,085        3,781         18,270
INTEREST CHARGED TO CONSTRUCTION                                        60        120          243         315          360          425          500          2.023
Total                                           1,595      2,178       2,614        3,040        3,075        3,510       4,281          20,293
TEg'S CASH GENERATION
Operating Incoe  /                                                   239        509          783         874        1,023        1,168        1,532          6,128
Depreciation                                                         145        195          285         390          500          680         800           2.995
Total                                             384        704        1,068       1,264        1,523        1,848       2,332           9,123
Less:  Debt Service 7/                                                97        269         493          504          631          725         834           3553
TOTAL CASH GENERATION               8/287                                         435          575         760          892        1,123        1,498          5,570
CASH GENERATION AS 7 OF INVESTMENT _                                     18        20           22          25           29           32           35             27
1/  Eales estimate Annex 1.6.
2/ Tariff increase effective February 1, 1980.
3/ Depreciation caleualted on revalued assets.
4/ Average revalued net fined assets is service.
5/ Investments estimate Annex 1.10.
/ Operating income before TEE's income tax liability.
/ Includes DSI's debt service for all loans associated with power projects.
8/  Inclsdes interest charged to construction.
April 1980



- 96 -                                ANNEX 3.4
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Comprehensive Review
of the Power Subsector Financing
A. Background
Power System Facilities
The electric power subsector in Turkey is controlled by the Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources. Under Law 1312 establishing the Turkish
Electricity Authority (TEK) in 1970, TEK is responsible for planning the
general electrification of Turkey and for constructing thermal power plants
and transmission facilities. The State Hydraulic Works (DSI) is responsible
for the development of the hydro potential of the country taking into con-
sideration TEK's power demands. The hydropower installations constructed
by DSI are transferred to TEK as Government's equity contribution on their
being brought into service without the transfer of the associated debts;
transfer regulations provide for determination of transfer values by ad hoc
transfer committees.
At present TEK owns about 90% of the generating facilities of the
country, the balance being owned by concessionary companies, municipalities
and private industrial interests. Among the private utility companies, by
far the largest is the Cukurova Electric Company which operates in the Adana
area and provides 9% of the interconnected system's generating capacity.
TEK is the main supplier of electrical energy in bulk to the distributors,
villages and major industrial users not served by the distributors.
The distributors are municipal authorities and concessionary com-
panies. The largest municipal distributors are Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir;
Istanbul and Izmir buy energy from TEK but Ankara still generates part of
its requirements. Except for a small and dwindling number of municipalities
isolated from the interconnected system, other municipal authorities buy
energy from TEK or Cukurova.
Village electrification is financed from the Village Electrification
Fund managed by TEK separately from its other activities and built up from
village contributions (25% of capital costs), a levy of 1 krs/kWh on non-
village consumers of electricity excluding large industrial consumers and
contributions from the Government budget. The capital and other costs not
funded by direct village contributions are recoverable by way of tariffs over
a period of 30 years.



- 97 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 4
Tariffs
Under the TEK law, TEK's tariffs are to be so fixed as to enable it
to earn, after meeting its expenses, an 8% rate of return on net fixed assets.
However, neither the manner of computing the return nor what constitutes
expenses has been spelled out in the law or in any regulations issued there-
under. TEK's covenants with the Bank under existing loans require TEK to
earn a rate of return of 8% on realistically valued assets. The method of
calculating the return and the principles for revaluation of assets have also
been spelled out clearly in the loan covenants. TEK has consistently failed
to earn the required return by a wide margin except in 1972. TEK's tariffs
are established by the Government under a 1967 decree, the latest revision
being effective from February 1, 1980. These tariffs provide for a fuel cost
surcharge, to be applied each time with the approval of the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources, in order to recover fuel cost increases occurring after
October 1, 1977. A revision of TEK's tariffs would normally necessitate
corresponding revision of municipal tariffs in order to maintain the financial
position of municipalities. In view of this and with a view to avoiding a
recurrence of the problem of non-payment of TEK's bills by municipalities,
Government has agreed to ensure that municipal retail tariffs are promptly
adjusted in a manner and in amounts commensurate with adjustments TEK makes
from time to time in its tariffs.
TEK's tariff structure does not reflect directly the cost to the
economy of meeting the demand for electricity supply. The same is true
of other tariff systems in the country. Therefore in connection with Loan
1194-TU, TEK has prepared a comprehensive tariff study covering the whole
country with a view to establishing appropriate pricing policies and tariff
structures at the bulk supply level and at the distribution level, including
the financing needs of the power sector. Government had undertaken to review
the results of the study with the Bank and to propPse measures for revised
tariff systems in the country.
Fuel Prices
No clear guidelines exist for determining the prices of fuel charged
by the Turkish Coal Authority (TKI) for its coal and lignite supplies to TEK.
These prices were traditionally fixed by Government with reference to prices
of oil, the competing energy resource, and not related to costs. But even
this method of fixing coal and lignite prices was not followed by Government
after the world oil price increases in 1973-74 nor were prices adjusted for
increases in TKI's operating costs with the result that TKI's operating losses
rose continuously in the years through 1977. However, revised coal and
lignite prices have been fixed by Government with effect from October 1, 1979
until January 1980, the effect of these prices on TKI's earnings is not known
at present. By fixing fuel prices at uneconomical levels in the past, Govern-
ment has provided a hidden subsidy to TEK and electricity consumers in the
country.



- 98 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 4
TEK's Liability for Income Taxes
TEK pays income taxes at 41.7% of taxable income which is computed
after interest expenses. TEK's loan capitalization therefore directly affects
its income tax liabilities. The Tax Law recognizes only the normal deprecia-
tion charges and not depreciation based on revalued assets.
B.   Objective of Proposed Comprehensive Review
The committee of experts appointed to conduct the proposed compre-
hensive review of power subsector financing would:
1.   (a)  prepare a comprehensive review of the financing requirements
of the electric power sub-sector in Turkey, including retail
municipal distribution until 1988; and
(b) a review of the extent of internal resource generation, taking
into account:
(i)  the present electricity pricing policies;
(ii)  the impact of pricing policies for fuel used in power
generation on electricity prices and internal resources
in the electric power sub-sector;
(iii) taxation policies on TEK's internal resource generation;
(iv)  impact of present methods of financing hydro investment
and their transfer to TEK as equity; and
(v)  the implications on TEK's financial situation of the terms
on which loans are made to TEK; and
2.   make recommendations for:
(a) appropriate level of capitalization required for TEK;
(b) policies for internal resource generation by the institutions
concerned with a view to finance a reasonable portion of the
investment requirements for future expansion; and
(c) measures to ensure that resources generated are in fact avail-
able to the institutions concerned, particularly with reference
to prompt payments by municipalities to TEK;
3.   In making its recommendations, the Committee will have regard to:
(i) recommendations of the overall tariff study done under Loan
1194-TU;



- 99 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 4
(ii) the investment requirements of the electric power sub-sector
and their impact on the budget;
(iii)  economic costs of fuel; and
(iv)  a reasonable return on capital.
C.   Scope and Timing of the Review
In order to achieve the above objectives, the committee should
carry out a comprehensive review of the entire power subsector including
related institutions such as TKI and the Government agencies supplying fuel
and gas oil, and municipalities, the financing needs of the subsector and the
financial relationship between the various agencies operating in the subsector.
The committee would complete its work by June 30, 1981.



- 100 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Justification of the Project
Load Forecast
1.        The Karakaya hydropower project forms part of the 1980-1986 power
development program, which is designed to meet the continued growth of demand
on the interconnected power system in Turkey. The trend growth rate of sales
since 1965 has been 10% p.a. (para. 1.12). For forecasting purposes, TEK has
used various techniques of forecasting including simple extrapolation and
econometric methods. Its present method is based on establishing the past
trend of kWh sales to each customer served (excluding major industrial con-
sumers) and making ten-year projections for each customer based on these
trends. Customers are grouped by substations and the substations by geo-
graphical regions. The resulting figures are aggregated for each region.
Separate projections are made for major industrial consumers including
projected new industries, using information supplied by the Ministries on
State Economic Enterprises concerned, supplemented by TEK's own contacts with
industry. To the resulting projection of total TEK sales are added projected
sales by the two concessionary companies (CEAS and KEPEZ), municipal under-
takings and auto-producers to give a forecast of total sales for Turkey. The
corresponding projection of total production is obtained by adding estimated
own consumption by power stations and transmission losses. The projected
totals are finally checked, and revised as necessary, in the light of other
Government plans and projections related to the development of the various
sectors of the economy and the regions.
2.        TEK's current projection of the load growth to 1986, covering the
period of the two five-year economic plans for Turkey, is shown in Annex
1.7.  For the subsequent  six years, covering the long-term plan of economic
development, an indicative (Appraisal mission's estimate) is as follows:
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Required electricity
generation, GWh          59,300  65,500  73,300  77,700  84,600  92,200
3.        The forecast implies an average annual growth rate of 11.2% up
to 1986, falling to 9% in 1987-92. This relatively high rate of increase of
power demand assumes the recovery of the Turkish economy and its projected
future growth. Given the expected fairly rapid rate of population increase of
about 2.4% p.a., it implies a rise in electricity consumption per capita from
the 1978 level of 441 kWh to 1,600 kWh in 1992. This would mean that at the
latter date Turkey would reach the level achieved by Italy in 1966, which does
not seem unreasonable.



- 101 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
4.        There are clearly many uncertainties in making projection for long-
term periods. To allow for these, TEK makes alternative projections for the
purpose of the economic analysis, assuming future demand 10% higher and 10%
lower than that used for the basic forecast.
Power System Planning
5.        TEK has qualified staff with appropriate experience in power system
planning. Starting from 1972 TEK has been using a computer model based on the
linear programming technique for the optimum development of the electric power
sector in Turkey. The model uses linear programming to search for an optimum
investment program over a 20-30 year period and the associated optimum load
dispatching schedules of the plant during this period. The output of the
model therefore includes the least-cost investment program, the load dispatch-
ing schedules and present worth of total capital and operating costs. The
search for the optimum investment program has to satisfy a number of con-
straints which need to be stated explicitly in the model. The more important
constraints are:
(a) the available capacity must be sufficient to meet the
expected peak demand plus a reserve for contingency;
(b) the total instantaneous power output of all plants must
be sufficient to meet the instantaneous power demand at
all times;
(c) the instantaneous power output of each plant must not
be greater than its available capacity;
(d) the energy output of a hydro plant cannot be greater
than the potential energy corrected for losses;
(e) the capacity installed of a given type of plant,
particularly hydro and lignite, must not be greater
than resources permit; and
(f) the plant initially on the system is fixed to certain
planned capacity levels.
There are also a number of special purpose constraints in the model:
(g) the hydro-thermal balance must not exceed a certain ratio;
and
(h) the total capacity of a certain type of plant must not
be above (or below) a certain maximum (or minimum).
Other appropriate constraints can be incorporated in the model. Furthermore,
the model is very suitable for various sensitivity tests of all input data.
The main limitation of the model is its inabilty to examine discrete alter-
natives. This problem can be overcome by additional use of the standard



- 102 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
least-cost evaluation methods. TEK has also started to use new computer
models for the power system development planning based on mathematical
simulation methods.
6.        Generally, it may be concluded that the power system planning
methods and procedures in Turkey provide a sound basis for determining the
least-cost development program for the sector using a reasonable range of
discount rates (up to 16%).
Alternative Development Strategies
7.        Generating capacity existing or under construction can hardly meet
the forecast requirements on the main projection through 1983. The total
installed capacity at that time will amount to 11,354 MW, comprising 3,953 MW
hydro and 7,401 MW thermal. Firm hydro capacity assuming 85% availability for
all existing hydropower plants (as confirmed by past experience) will be 3,360
MW, and firm thermal capacity, assuming 70% availability, 5,181 MW. System
firm capacity, therefore, will be 8,541 MW, compared with forecast peak demand
in 1983 of 7,960 MW. The corresponding hydro generation capability is 15,055
GWh, assuming an average hydrological year, or 9,890 GWh in the critical dry
year. For the thermal plant, the corresponding figure is 29,083 GWh. This
gives a total firm system capability of 38,973 GWh, which is not sufficient to
cover the TEK forecast requirement of 40,710 GWh.
8.        Between 1983 and 1986, the additional generation reouirement is
14,242 GWh and the corresponding increase in peak demand is 3,280 MW. New
generating capacity will have to be installed to meet these additional power
system requirements. The feasible technical options for this purpose cover
hydro plants, conventional steam plants (lignite and oil-fired), nuclear
plants ( only hypothetically due to the long lead times) and gas-turbines.
9.        Past power development in Turkey has been based primarily on the
utilization of the country's resources of hydropower and lignite. Only 30%
of the hydropower potential of Turkey has been developed or is under con-
struction. The Euphrates River basin with usable hydropower potential of
31,000 GWh is the most promising part of the country's remaining hydropower
resources. Lignite reserves, particularly those at Elbistan, offer the
greatest possibility for the construction of new thermal power plants.
Since domestic oil fuel reserves are very small, Turkey is trying to reduce
its dependence on imported fuel oil, especially in the power sector, where
the utilization of hydropower and lignite reserves could be further developed.
10.       Turkey's long-term development strategy is based on progressive
exploitation of the country's hydropower and lignite resources, supplemented
by the introduction of the first nuclear power plant after 1987 and further
nuclear power capacity on a growing scale from 1990 onwards. The development
programs envisage that the economic hydropower potential will be developed
by the year 2000 and that to meet the projected growth of demand of installed
capacity and power generation, the system will grow as follows:



-103 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
Hydro               Thermal                Total
Year          MW         GWh        MW         GWh        MW         GWh
1983        3,953      15,055      7,401    29,083    11,354        44,138
1986        8,088      30,931      7,888    43,061    15,976        73,992
1988        9,996      35,885      9,224    53,179    19,220        89,064
1990       13,488      47,469    10,424    60,919    23,912    108,388
1992       14,544      51,798    13,824    79,924    28,368    131,722
10.       The TEK studies confirmed that, on the basic load forecast adopted,
further generating capacities would be needed after 1983. The TEK study 1/
investigated least-cost investments in the power sector for the period
1982-2002. All hydropower potential grouped in 26 basins and available
fossil fuel resources were considered. The study evaluated the alternative
investment programs using the linear programming method. The objective of
this study was to choose an investment program and its associated optimum load
dispatching schedule by minimizing the discounted total of capital and opera-
tion costs over the specified period. In this study particular attention was
given to a balanced use of hydro and thermal resources. In addition to the
constraints regularly used in the previous studies two other constraints (or
criteria) common to all the alternatives considered were the assumptions that
(i) Turkey will utilize firstly her main domestic indigenous energy resources
(hydropower and lignite) before turning to imported resources (fuel oil and
nuclear) and (ii) the first nuclear power plant (600 MW) will be commissioned
in 1988 regardless of its economy. In regard to hydro and thermal balance two
cases were studied: (a) when the ratio of hydro/thermal capacity is restricted
to 50% hydro and 50% thermal; and (b) when this restriction is not applied.
The plant installed capacity was assumed to be on average about 33% over peak
demand (but not less than 30%) in order to cover all unexpected conditions,
such as dry seasons, delays in commissioning, forced and scheduled outages
in generating and transmission facilities and uncertainties in the applied
assumptions. In the sensitivity analysis the discount rates of 11.5%, 14%
and 16% were used. The discount rate of 11.5% is the officially used rate
in Turkey for public utilities projects. This rate is determined by the State
Planning Organization and recommended to be used for economic evaluation of
various public projects. Capital costs and fuel costs were also increased by
15% in order to test the sensitivity of the study results. Furthermore, the
results were tested in the case of reduced load demand values by 10%. The
study divided investments over the whole period 1982-2002 into five sub-
periods, using as average representative years: 1983, 1985, 1987, 1990, 1991
and 1997. The plant already in operation and under construction is expected
to meet requirements through 1982. Existing and future power generating
plants were classified into nine groups according to their capital costs and
load factors. Practically all identified hydro and thermal plants were
included, although it is obvious that they have not all been elaborated
1/   "Long-Term Optimum Investment Program using Linear Programming
(1982-2002)".



- 104 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
to the same extent, and many of them lack essential technical documentation,
feasibility studies, engineering designs, etc. The Karakaya hydropower plant
was treated individually in order to indicate its specific merits and justify
its choice. In all cases considered, including the sensitivity tests, the
Karakaya project was found to be a part of the least-cost investment program
for the power sector. In the studies the Karakaya project was shown to be
the most promising new hydropower generation development. The consultant's
studies, based on the same data, confirmed this conclusion.
11.       The TEK study (para 10) gave the following results regarding the
Karakaya project: (i) in the case based on non-restricted hydro/thermal
balance, discount rates of 11.5-16%, and the basic load forecast, capital
costs and fuel costs, 716 MW of the Karakaya capacity would need to be com-
missioned in 1984, followed by the remaining 1,084 MW in 1986; (ii) assuming
the reduced load forecast, with the other assumptions unchanged, 738 MW of the
Project installed capacity would be required in 1985 and the remaining 1,062
MW in 1987. The latter case indicates the postponement of the required plant
commissioning by two years.
12.       The TEK study justifies the proposed installed capacity (1,800 MW)
of the Project by comparing it with other available hydro and thermal re-
sources. A detailed load allocation analysis was carried out for the Turkish
system for the period up to the year 2000 with and without Karakaya. As shown
in Attachment 1 to this annex, the analysis indicated that the output from
Karakaya can be divided into base and peak components. The base component
is 907 MW and 7,629 GWh (including the extra production of Keban due to the
regulating effect of Karakaya). These are the amounts of base power and
energy that must be replaced when Karakaya is not included in the system.
The equivalent thermal capacity required (nuclear, oil or lignite), assuming
an average annual plant factor of 73% (which is considered appropriate for
these plants) is about 1,200 MW. The peak component is 813 MW and 133 GWh
(2% average annual plant factor). These again represent the amount of peak
power and energy that must be replaced when Karakaya is not included in the
system. The gas-turbine units were selected as the most suitable to replace
the corresponding Karakaya peak component in the alternatives considered.
Therefore each alternative contains 1,200 MW of base-load plant (lignite,
oil or nuclear) and 840-MW of gas-turbine plant for peaking purposes. For
each alternative 1/ the length of transmission lines needed to connect the
plant with the interconnected power system was estimated by considering the
probable location of the alternative plant. In each case single circuit lines
were used as TEK's plans do not envisage double circuit lines. The length of
transmission lines for the alternative programs are the following:
1/   The length of transmission lines needed for Karakaya - 1,300 km.



- 105 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
(a)  lignite program                                  1,100 km
(b)  oil-fired program                                  300 km
(c)  nuclear program                                    500 km
The existing transmission network was considered adequate for the additional
gas-turbine plants.
Comparison of Alternatives
A.   Assumptions
13.       Given that the Karakaya Project was the preferred hydropower choice
to meet the forecast load growth, the next step was to compare the program
including Karakaya with the alternative developments if Karakaya is excluded
from the plant program. As indicated above, the feasible technical options
available for replacing Karakaya would be lignite, oil-fired, nuclear-fueled
and gas-turbine plants. Since the basic assumption is that the power system
development is the same for all alternatives up to the first commissioning
of Karakaya (i.e. up to 1985), the economic justification is, therefore,
concerned only with the analysis of differences between these alternatives.
In the lignite-fired, oil-fired and nuclear-fueled programs the base energy
component of Karakaya is always replaced by base-load plant (lignite, oil or
nuclear) and the peaking component by gas-turbine peaking plant to provide the
same quality of energy as Karakaya. As indicated above, this would require
1,200 MW of base-load thermal capacity and 840 MW of gas-turbine peaking
plant. For the alternative thermal programs, the following assumptions were
made:
(a) Unit Sizes
14.       For the lignite-fired alternative it was assumed that additional
capacity would be installed at the Elbistan site in view of the economic
advantages and adequate reserves of lignite deposits. The four units now
under construction there are each 300 MW and it was assumed that further units
would be of the same size, since the advantages of replication were thought
to outweigh any possible economies of scale through going to larger unit
sizes in the later part of the period considered. There is no experience
with larger lignite-fired generating units in Turkey; furthermore, larger
steam generators could be technically complicated and the Turkish power system
cannot yet easily accept generating units larger than 300 MW. For the oil-
fired alternative 300-MW generating units were also assumed. For the nuclear
alternative, 600-MW size was assumed for the purpose of comparison since it
is the smallest unit size commercially available. With somewhat increased
operational efforts this size (5% of peak demand in 1986) could be accept-
able for the power system. Therefore, in the alternatives considered, the
Karakaya base-load component was replaced by the following equivalent thermal
plants:



- 106 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
a lignite installation of 4 x 300 MW
an oil-fired installation of 4 x 300 MW
a nuclear installation of 2 x 600 MW
Furthermore, the Karakaya peak component was replaced by 60-MW gas-turbines,
since this size was considered appropriate for the Turkish power system.
(b) Technical Assumptions
15.       The annual plant factor for the base-load component of Karakaya
was found to be 96% (allowing for 4% non-availability of this plant). The
Karakaya peak-load component average annual plant factor was calculated
to be 2% in a detailed computer study of the system. For the alternative
nuclear, lignite and oil-fired power plants the annual load factor was
assumed to be 73%. Shut-down time for annual maintenance, in accordance
with the current practice in Turkey, has been three weeks for hydropower
plant in each of the first three years and six weeks in the fourth year.
For thermal power plants these values were four and six weeks, respectively.
The force outage rate was assumed to be one week per year.
16.       A 52-year life for civil works and a 25-year life for equipment
was assumed for hydropower plants. A 25-year life was assumed for nuclear,
lignite and oil-fired plants and 20-year life for gas-turbine plants.
Transmission line life was assumed to be 25 years.
17.       Specific consumption of fuel-oil (calorific value 9,652 kcal/kg)
was assumed as 0.230 kg/kWh (the figure for the existing plants at Ambarli)
for oil-fired plants. Specific fuel consumption of 2.4 kg/kWh was taken
for the lignite power plant, assuming a calorific value for lignite of
1,050 kcal/kg. Gas-turbine plants were assumed to use gas-oil fuel,
locally called "motorin" (calorific value about 10,000 kcal/kg), and to
have a specific consumption of 0.35 kg/kWh, corresponding to the figure
for the existing gas-turbine station at Aliaga.
18.       A system load factor of 63% was assumed throughout the forecast
period.
19.       The required reserve of installed generating capacity on the
system was assumed not less than 30% of peak load demand (para 10).
(c) Capital Costs
20.       The estimated capital costs in March 1980 (including physical
contingencies) were used for the basic comparison. For the Karakaya hydro-
power plant detailed cost data are given in Annex 2.2. The consultant's
estimate of LT 61,600/kW (US$880/kW) installed was adopted for the lignite
alternative. This corresponds with the cost of the Elbistan B lignite power
plant with four 300-MW units. The consultant's estimate of LT 51,800/kW
(US$740/kW) was adopted for the oil-fueled power plant consisting of four
300-MW units. The estimate for the nuclear power plant, consisting of two
600-MW units, was LT 119,000/kW (US$1,700/kW). The capital cost for the
gas-turbine plants was taken as LT 21,000/kW (US$300/kW). The specific
costs of 380-kV transmission lines were assumed to be LT 6.3 million/km



- 107 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
(US$90,000/km). The above capital costs are within the range of costs
recently obtained from suppliers and Project designs. They are also con-
sistent with the cost data for similar power projects in other countries. To
allow for uncertainty, the comparison of alternatives was also made assuming
capital costs for all alternatives 15% higher and 10% lower than in the base
case.
(d) Fuel Costs
21.       The current lignite selling price in Turkey of LT 320/t (US$4.6/t)
or LT 293.2/million kcal (US$4.2/million kcal) was adopted as the basis
for the evaluation of the lignite alternative. This price is thought to be
below the marginal cost of supply to additional lignite-fired generating
capacity, but it was used since no precise estimate of the marginal cost could
be obtained.
22.       The present c.i.f. value of fuel-oil of LT 11,970/t (US$171/t)
was adopted as a reasonable estimate of the economic cost of fuel-oil for
the purpose of the comparison.
23.       A levelized nuclear fuel cost (at 14% discount rate) of 0.63 LT/kWh
(9 US mills/kWh) was calculated for the purpose of the comparison. These
values reflect the consultants current experience with nuclear power plants.
The annual nuclear fuel costs were also adjusted for the assumed average
annual running period of the nuclear plants, 4% less than that of large
oil-fired plants.
24.       The present c.i.f. value of gas-oil (motorin) for the gas-turbine
plants was adopted i.e. LT 20,020/t (US$286/t). This results in a fuel cost
for the gas-turbine plants of LT 7.01/kWh.
25.        In view of the uncertainties, the effect on the comparison of fuel
costs 20% higher and 10% lower than the figures quoted was also tested.
(e) Operating and Maintenance Costs
26.       The annual fixed 0 & M costs were assumed to approximate the
following percentages of total capital costs:
Hydro Plant:
Civil works                            0.30
Equipment                              1.50
Lignite Plant                                1.61
Oil-fired Plant                              1.14
Nuclear                                      1.78
Gas-Turbines                                 0.18
Transmission Lines                           1.50



- 108 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
(f) Load Growth
27.       The main load forecast for Turkey was used for the base-case com-
parison of alternatives (Annex 1.6). To allow for uncertainty, comparison
of the alternatives was also made assuming annual load growth 10% less than
the values given in the main load forecast.
(g) Foreign Exchange
28.        The Turkish currency is floating.  The exchange rate effective
March 1980 was LT 70 = US$1. This rate has been adopted here for conversion
of foreign costs to domestic currency for the comparison of the alternatives.
(h) Unskilled Labor
29.        There is a surplus of unskilled labor in Turkey and this is expected
to persist over the foreseeable future. About 75% of the unskilled labor
required for Project construction is expected to come from the Project area,
the remainder from north-east Turkey.
(i) Secondary Benefits
30.        Some secondary benefits for future power and irrigation projects are
expected from the Karakaya project, especially in the case of the Ataturk
multipurpose power project, as a result of the more regulated Euphrates River
flows downstream of the Project dam site. However, since these have not been
quantified, they have not been taken into account in the comparison of the
alternatives.
B.   Adjustment of Costs for Economic Evaluation
31.        For the economic evaluation of the alternatives it was necessary to
express the various inputs in terms of their economic values, requiring the
use of efficiency rather than market prices. These efficiency prices measure
the opportunity cost to the economy of the inputs in terms of their value in
their best alternative use. Moreover, since all the alternatives involve both
foreign exchange costs for "tradeable" goods and services (i.e. either imported
or, if supplied locally, exportable) and domestic costs for non-traded inputs
(such as land and unskilled labor), it is necessary to bring these to a common
basis for the purposes of the economic analysis. This was done by deriving
economic values for all inputs, as measured by international (or "border")
prices, as follows:
(a) Capital Costs
32.       A detailed list of the individual items of equipment, materials and
services comprising the Project's capital costs was prepared. Similar lists
were made for all alternatives with which the Project was compared for the
least-cost evaluation. The items in these lists were then classified by
categories as follows:



- 109 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
(i) Items expected to be supplied from abroad. These were
valued at their c.i.f. costs.
(ii) Items expected to be supplied locally but which could be
exported if not required for the Project or its alterna-
tives. The only such item identified was cement, which
was accordingly valued at its f.o.b. price of US$51/t.
(iii) Other items (including internal transport) supplied locally
but which are not exportable. Where these embodied identi-
fiable imported items, the latter were valued at their
c.i.f. costs. The residual local costs (except unskilled
labor) were then converted to their border price equivalents
using a "standard conversion factor" (SCF), which represents
the ratio of the value of border prices of all exports and
imports to their value at domestic prices. For Turkey the
SCF has been estimated at 0.59, implying a shadow exchange
rate of LT 119 per US$1.
(iv) The efficiency price for unskilled labor in Turkey is esti-
mated to be 0.57% of the market wage rate. The unskilled
labor costs associated with each alternative were therefore
adjusted to their economic values using this factor.
(v) The market cost of land was converted to its economic value
by application of the SCF.
(b) Fuel Costs
33.       The c.i.f. prices as indicated above, for fuel-oil, gas-oil and
nuclear fuel were used for the comparison of alternatives, since it is
assumed that these would have to be imported. Lignite was valued at its
current selling price (para 21), multiplied by the SCF of 0.59. Only
the incremental fuel costs of each alternative were considered in the
economic analysis.
(c) Operating and Maintenance Costs
34.       The various items comprising operation and maintenance costs
were treated similarly to the capital and fuel costs.
C.   Results of Comparison
35.       The economic values of the cost streams associated with each of
the four development alternatives, on the basic assumptions regarding the
values of the main variables, are shown in Attachment 2. The net present
values were calculated over a range of discount rates from 10 to 55% and
the results were shown in Attachment 2. The results indicate that the



- 110 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
Karakaya hydropower program has the lowest present worth up to a discount
rate of 53.5%.   Since the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Turkey
is around 11%, this indicates that the Karakaya project is part of the least-
cost means of meeting future power requirements on the main assumptions used.
The conclusion was tested for sensitivity to the different values for the
variables given above. The results, which are summarized in Attachment 3,
indicate that the choice of the Karakaya Project is not affected by these
changes.
Return on Investment
36.       The internal economic rate of return (IRR) on the Project is the
discount rate which equalizes the present values of the time-streams of the
costs and benefits over the life of the Project. The costs are the attri-
butable financial costs of the Project adjusted for taxes, internal transfers
and sunk costs, and converted to their economic values as described above
(para 31). The benefits comprise the revenues from incremental power sales
attributable to the Project, adjusted to their economic values by application
of the SCF of 0.59. The detailed figures are shown in Attachment 4.
37.       The simulation studies carried out by the consultant using hydro-
logical data for the period 1937-75 indicated that the average annual genera-
tion and sales attributable to the Project would be as follows:
-------------GWh--------------
1985         1986       1987-2035
Generation                    2,773        6,378          7,762
Losses and Station Use          300          700            852
Sales                         2,473        5,678          6,910
38.       The resulting internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project
is estimated to be at least 15.1%, assuming current electricity rates (April
1980), which give an average revenue of LT 2.8/kWh. Sensitivity tests showed
that tariff rate increases to achieve TEK's 8% financial rate of return would
result which in an IER of 24.65%.
April 1980



ANNEX 4
- 111 -                              ~~~~~~~Attachment1
TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
System Load Diagram
LOAD(%)
100      .     .   PEAK THERMAL
>      ~~KARAKAYA (pea k energy )
90 
80\
60_
OTHER HYDRO
40i
40
NUCLEAYAR......
301 -0                 3       0       5      0       7       0      9       0
THERMAL~ ~ ~ ~~~~Wol (linik an coal)



TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Cost Streams and Present Values, Karakaya Hydro
( LT Mi lli ons )
----------------------------------------        CAPITAL COSTS_-      -      -      ----____________________________                                                             _       ________________________ -------------OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE-_--------  TOTAL COSTS
(Eeon. Value)
---------------Equipment, Mterials & Land-----------------    ------------labo ------------             Total Capital Costs--   -Equip. & Materials-     -    L---abor-------
~~~~(REcosoic Vatlue)
Year EndIng              Direct       Local      Indirect    Local Non-       Lcl                    local     Local Un-                                  Direct      Local Noe-                 Un-
December 31,             Foreige    Tradeable    Foreign     Tredeabta      Tranolort    Foreigr.    Skilled    Skilled      Porei      Lal   Total5 F7reig          Tradeable      Skilled    Sklled    Total   P.se Case
(3X~2    T2&       9&0                                                   (E57.value)
5&7&8)
(1)         (2)         (3)           !            (5)          (6)        (7)         (8)         (9)        (10)     (11)      (12)        (13)          (14)       (15)      (16)       (17)
1980                   7,148        132         281         2,309           183         612        485         232         8,041     2,021   10,062       -            -            -          -         -         10,062
1981                   2,305        132         282         3,1453          185         433        485         232         3,020     2,697    5,717       -            -            -          _         _          5,717
1982                   6,213        132         282         3,935           211         471        617         264         6,966     3,093   10,059       -            -            _          _         -        10,059
1983                   6,870         83         192         3,989           272         465        954          329        7,527     3,347   10,874       -            -            -          _         -         10,874
1984                   3,52t         83         190         4,320           357         370      i,405         442         4,o84     3,864    7,948       -            -            -          _         _          7,948
1985                   1,590         83         157         1,537            88         340        338         114         2,087     1,306    3,393       6            50          175         47       136         3,529
1986                   1,417         59         113           210            50         337        179          65         1,867       355    2,222       7            55          21.0        55       162         2,384
1987                   1,o54         46          86           163            35         274        i42          50         1,414       275    1,689       8            64          241         68       189         1,878
1988-2001                   -           -     -            -             -            -           -                -            -         -       -          8            64          241         68       189           189
2005                     706         -           _             _             _           20         _            -           726       -        726        8           64          241         68        189          915
2006                     859         -            2             14            2          23          3            0          884        11      895       8            64          241         68        189        1,084
2007                   2,184         -           -             136           21          64        114          28         2,248       176    2,424        8           64          241         68        189        2,613
2008                   3,140         -            5            578           93         110        515          129        3,255       773    4,o28       8            64          241         68        189        4,217
2009                   4,503         -            9          1,0911         177         169        983         246         4,681     1,470    6,151       8            64          241         68       189         6,340    a
2010                   3,156         -           15           684           104         107        494          n6         3,278       823    4,101       8            64          241         68       189         4,290 o
2011                   3,153         _            10           795          126         117        680          165        3,280       945    4 225        8           64          241         68        189        4,414
2012                   1,252         -            7            i68           24          37         78           15        1,296       168    1,464        8           64          241         68        189        1,653
2013                     411         -            2            24             3          11          4           41l         424        42      466        8           64          241         68        189          655
2014-2036                   _-                                                                    -           -          -               -                   8            64          241         68        189          189
----------TOMAL COSTS-----------
15% Higher          10% Lower
%      Base Case       Capital Costs      Capital Costa
Present Values at:    10        44,162             50,786              39,746
15       38,724             44 533             34,852
16       37,899             43,580             34,1o6
18       36,398             41,857             32,758
20       35,o68             40,328              31,561
22       33,870             38,951             30,483
24       32,780             37,697             29,502
26       31,800             36,547             28,602
28       30,857             35,485             27,771                                                                                                                                                . o
30       30,001             34,501             27,001
32       29,205             33,586             26,285
34       28,463             32,732             25,617
35       28,110             32,326             25,299
4o       26,507             30,483             23,856
45       25,132             28,902             22,619
50       23,942             27 534             21,548
55       22,904             26,340             20,614
April 1980



TUKEKY
KARAKAYA HYDRO011POOW PROJECT
Cost Streets and Present Values. Lignite Alternative
(LT Minions'
------------------------------------- CAPITAL COSTS- -------------------------------------   -------------- OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE --------------   ---------------- FUEL COSTS------------------ - ---_-_----__  TOTALCOT -------------
----------------Equipment and   ter-i6                                 -e-----------------   --a---------- L^br ------- e _ q.ip-.nt -nd Wterias -----    ------Lrbor-------   ----Limite  Coat -----   ------Ga.  Oil-------  1Cepitel-  -(O-   -Fel-   -TTtel-
Year Elding              Dire-t       local    Indirect   Local Nen-   Internal                 LocAl    Locnl Uo-  Direct    Indirect   LocAl Eon-   loca(1 (ca1 Ua-  Indirect   locl Nle-   Direct    Local Non-
Deceober 31,             Foreign    Tr-deable   Foreign    Tnssleetble    Tr-n-po-t   Foreign   Skilled    Skilled    Foreign   Foreign    Tradeoble    Sl          li kE.d    Feign    Tdeable    Ftig    T-radeatble
1980
1981                  1,879         50         i4i        1,030          90         215       382         142        -         -           -            -          -            -            -         -          -           3,252      -        -        3,252
1982                  9,449        251         706        1,183         453       1,077     1,995         718             -          -                  -          -            -            -         -          -          16,395      -        -       16,395
1983                 15,475        402       1,130       8,506          760       1 747     3,399       1,199        -         -           -            -          -            -            -         -          -          26,910      -        -       26 910
9s84                  9,721        226         647       4,945          459       1,011     2,040         703        -         _           _            _          -             - 1              -        _                 16,398      -        -       16,398
1985                  7,416         50         271        1,432         i86         330       612         178        7        18          252          250        120        3,2501      2,580         -          -           9,484    241      4,772     14,497
1986                  9,456         25         131       1,128          192         286       530         126       19        35          50o          508        240          890        5,058       125         7          1i,o61    790      4,003     15,854
1987-2003                  -           -           -           -            -          -         -            -        23        35          512          516        24o          877        4,982       930        56             -       BO1     4,779     5s580
2G04                    857         -           11           64          15          18        36           6       23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56              957    801     4 779      6,537
2105                  5,567         -          129          418          99         118       236          40       23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56            6,278    801     4 779      11,858
2006                 10,445         50         201        1,672         242         397        754        204       23        35           512         516        240          877       14,982       930        56           12,783    801     4,779     18,363
2007                  9,449        251         706        5,183         453       1,077     1,995         718       23        35           512         516        24o          877        4,982       930        56           16,395    801     4,779     21,975
2008                 15,475        402       1,130        8,506         760       1,747     3,399       1,199       23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56           26,912    8oi     4,779     32,4190
2009                  8,864        226         636        4 881         444         993     2,0o4         697       23        35           512         516        24o          877        4,982       930        56          1,44o    801      4,779     21,020
2010                  1,849         50         142        1,041          87         212        376        138       23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56            3,219    801     4,779      8,799
2011                    899         25          71          486         4ho         i0        168          64       23        35           512         S16        24o          877        4,982       930        56            1,536    801     4, 779     7,116
2012-2023                  -           -            -          -            -                                          23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56             -       801     4,779       5,580
2024                    857         -           11           64          15          18        36           6       23        35          512          516        240          877        4,982       930        56              957    801     4,779      6,537
2025                  5,567         -          129          4i8          99         118       236          40       23        35          512          516        240          877        4,982       930        56            6,278    801     4,779     11,857
2026                  8,566         -           60          642         152         182       362          62       23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56            9,425    801     4,779     15,00S
2027-2036                        -                  -          -            -          -          -           -        23        35           512         516        240          877        4,982       930        56             -       801     4,779       5,580
lapitnl costs    Capital Coats    Fuel Cotos  FPol Costo Capita1 Conts 15% Nigh-e  Load F-oroo.st
E Base - e               15%          10% Lower       20% Higher    10% L-or  % Fucl Coats 20% Higher    10% Lawer
Present tlues of           10      103,171         113,884          96,030         109,522       99,996           120,235                101,855                                                                                                                  -
TotAl Costc ot             15       74,241          82,701          68,6do          77,810       72,457            86,269                 72,752
16       70,435          78,577         65,007           73,666       68,82o           8,1808                  68,878
18       63,959          71,543         58,902           66,638       62,619            74,222                 62,64o
20       58,625          65,730          53,889          60,878       57,500            67,982                 57,800
22       54,131          60,815         49,065           56,044       53,174            62,728                 53,342
24       50,271          56,581         46,o65           51,913       49,451            58,222                 49,621
26       46,908          52,880          42,9e7          48,328       46,199            54,299                 46,315
28       43,942          49,606         40,166           45,178       43,324            50,842                 43,48o
30       41,300          46,683         37,712           42,383       40,759           47,766                  40,810
32       38,928          44,052         35,513           39,883       38,452            45,007                 38,501
34       36,785          41,669         33,529           37,629       36,363            42,514                 36,400
35       35,788          40,560         32,600           36,585       35,390            41,356                 35,441
40       31,425          35,689         28,584           32,027       31,125            36,290                 31,210
45       27,882          31,717         25,326           28,346       27,651            32,181                 27,712
50       24,9549         28,419         22,636           25,313       24,767           20,783                  24,810
55       22,485          25,641         20,382           22,775       22,341           25,931                  22,402
1/ Includen direct foreign fuel -cot  fFor Aborl.2
April 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to



TURKEY
KARAKAYA IrYDROPGIE8 PROJECT
Cost Strea    and Preset Values, Duel Oil Alterntive
ILT Million5c!
-----------------------------------_ CAPITAL EI.CSTJ_D- _-----___________________________   ---------DOPERATIODN & MNTENCE---------  ____________   FUEL CESTS------------------   -------------TOTAL COSTS------------
-__ul__---_  --Fquiprent  d MtriAls----------------   -----------LbEquip. &   terial-                                    Lab-Fuel i                         -        GA           -     capital-  -O        -Fuel-   -ot
Year Ending         Direct      Local    Indirect   Local con-    Dolorool                LOCAl    Local Vn-  DirUet    Local VU-    Local   Local VP-   Direst    Lo-al Non-   Direct    Local Nan-
IDeceber 31,        Foreign   Tr-deAble   F-reign    Tradeable    T-sport  Foreign   Skilled    Skilled    Foreign   Tradeable   Stilled    Skifled    Foreign   TrAdeable    Foreign   TIadeable
1980
1981                  53                               32            5          4          31        8         -           -          -          -            -         -           -         -               i02      -       -          102
1982               2,237       43         81        1,524          124        147       1,015      197         -           _          _          _            _         _           -         _             4,191      -       -        4,191
1983               7,479      187        350        5,273          417        987 3,113            510        -            -          -          -           -          -           -         -            13,990      -       -       13,990
1984              11,802      288        549        7,839          6oi        724       4,500      721         -           -          -          -            -         -           -         -           21,499       -       -       213409
1985              11,897      172        452        4,939          426        526       2,776      433         17          47        248         71       l5,502       779          -         -            18,097     232    15,962    34,291
1986               9,616       28        114        1,391          205        250         782      127         37         101        502        142       21,267       575         125         7           11 483     474    21,735    33,692
19872003                          -          -            -            -          -          -         -         41          105        510        142       20,948       566         930        56             -        485    22,215    22,730
2D01.                857       -           1          64           15         18          36        6        41          105        510        142       20,948       566         930        56              952     485    22,245    23,687
2005               5,567       _         129          418           99        118         P36       40         41         105        510        142        20,948      566         930        56            6,281     485    22,245    29,o11
2006               8,619       -          6o          674,         157        186         393       70        41          105        510        142       20,948       566         930        56            9,627     485    22,245    32,357
2007               1,867       43         81        1,302          110        122         800       141        41         105        510        142       20,948       566         930         56           3,498     485    22,245    26,228
2008               7,479      187        350        5,273          417        484       3,113      520         41         105        510        142       20,948       566         930         56          13,990     485    22,245    36,720
2009              10,945      288        538        7,775          586        706       4,464      715         41         105        510        142       20,948       566         930         56          15,518     485    22,245    38,2158
2010               6,330      172        323        14,521         327        4o8       2,540      393         4]         105        510        142       20,948       566         930        56           11,816     485    22,245    34,546
2011               1,050       28         54           749          53         68         420       65         41         105        510         142       20,948      566         930         56           1,958     485    22,245    24,688
2112-2043              -          -          -            -            -          -          -          -         41         105        510         142       20,948      566         930         56            -        485    22,245    22,730
2024                 857       -          11           64           15         18          36        6         41         105        910        142        20,948      566         930         56             957     485    22,245    23,687
2025               5,567       _         129           418          99        118         236        4D        4i         105        510         142       20,948      566         930         56           6,281     485    22,245    29,011
2026               8,566       -          60          602          152        182         362       62         41         105        510        142        20,948      566         930         i6           9,525     485    22,245    90,255
2027-2036              -          -          -            -            -          -          -          -         41         105        510         142       20,948      566         930         56            -        485    22,245    22,730
CFpital Costs    Capital Costs    Fpnl Costs    Fuel CDets    Capital Coats 15% Higher
B Di-c Case    15% Highser              10% Lover      20% Highbr      10    - Looer  4 Fuel Dsata 20% HUgher
Present Vsloes of
Total Costs at:        10        199,874        208,006            194,453        229,007       185,308             237,139
15        123,004        129,261           118,833         139,262       114,875             145,520
16        113,408        119,396            109,416        128,106       106,G59             134,093
18         97,518        103,030            93,848         199,672        91,441 i1,184
20         84,938         90,040            81,537          95,124        79,846            100,225
22         74,763         79,504             71,602         83.394        70,447              88,135
24         66,384         70,804             63,437         73,768        62,692              78,187
26         59,380         63,512             56,626         65,748        56,197              69,880
28         53,453         57,323             50,872         58,982        50,687              62,853
30         48,380         52,013            45,959          53,214        45,964              56,846
32         44,8O1         47,417             41,725         48,248        41,878              51,663
34         40,189         43,405            38,045          43,939        38,314             47,155
35         38,465         41,587             36,383        141,995        36,699              45,117
4o         31,286         33,993             29,482         33,934        29,962              36,61
45         25,908         28,271            24,332          27,937        24,893              30,301
50         21,770         23,868            20,385          23,354        20,979             25,432
55         18,519         20,357            17,294          19,773        17,893              21,611
April 1980



:iMKEY
K2RA0AYA HYDROPOWER PRTO.ECT
Cost Streana and Present Values, Nuclear Alternative
'LVT Icnlicaa)
-I                                             CTP-A-A-------_-----------------D 0-TCAPITAL COSTST-------------------------------------   ---------------TOPERATION AND INThDANCE0-------------   ----------------_FU--TAL COSTS           - ------------
-----------------Equlpn.t aad Usterisls__---a----___a__N ------------I-b-or------_-----           ------Egu1p. & Bt-nala-------       ---L-b-Nuclear Faue-----i --- 1   Fl_ _   --------  Oil-------   -CpitI-   -04M-                 l-   -Tstal-
Yesr Eding                Direct      L-al       Indirect   Local Nun-   Intern.l   Direct         Lucal    local -U-   Direct    Indirect   local Nan-    L-an         L-ai Un-   Direat    Local Nun-   Direct    Local Non-
Dece-ber 31,             FVrelgn   Tradeable   F-reign    Tradesble    Tranaport   Foreign          killed    Skilled    Fureige   F-reiga    Tradeable    Skilled    Skilled    Foreign   Tradeable    Foreign   Tradeable
1980
1981                     3,078        44          19          739           54          592        337        95          -          -             -           -           -          -           -           -            -           4,454         -       -        4,454
1982                     9,718       139          60        2,348          174        1,873      1,16o       305          -          -             -           -           -          -           -           -            -           14,136        -       -       14,136
1983                    22,233       316        136         5,425          41ii       4,299     2,779        7]5          -          -             _           -           _          _           _           _            _          32,474        -        -       32,474
1984                    26,94ol      379        163         6,667          519        5,237     3,427        997          -          -             -           -           _          _           -           _            _          39,492         -       -       39,492
1915                    17.522       234        112         4,201          34o        3,261      2,164        565         -          -             -           -           -          -           -         4,500         180         29,407         -     4,606    301013
1986                    13,513       114        178        21337           242        1,648      1,256       288         369         37           54        325          27        4,7o0        150          460          23          17 880      932    5,262    24,074
1987                    11,204        38         76         1,275          198          668        725       143         739         73         1,o84        656          S3        4,662        143          930          56         13,364    1,869    5,709    2o,942
1988R2004                    -           -           -            -            -           -          -           -         743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        1143         930          56            -        1,880    5,709      7,589
2005                       857        -           Vl            (4          15           18         36          6        743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56             957    1,880    5,709       8,546
2006                     8 645        44         148         1,157         153          710        573        135        743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56          10,735    1,880    5,709    18,324                        I
2007                    189284       139         120        2,990          326        2,055      1,522        367        743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56          23,662    1, 80    5,709    31,251
2008                    22,233       316         136        5,425          411        4,299      2,779        715        743         73.        1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56          32,474    1,880    5,709    409,63
2009                    26,940       379         163        6,667          519        5,2137     3,427       897         743         73         1,038         664          53       4,662        l43          930          S6          39,492    1,880    5,709    47,581
2010                    16,655       234         101        4,137          325        3,243      2,128        559        743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          939          56          24,440    1,880    5,709    32,029
2011                     7,946       114          49         1,919         143        1,530      1,9026       248        743         73         l,o88         664          53       4,662        143          939          56          11,602    1,880    5,799    19,191
2012                     2,638        38          16          633           46          5C6        363         81        743         73         1,o88         664          53       4,662        143          930          s6           3,859    1,880    5,709    11,448
2013-2024                    -           -           -            -             -          -          -           -         743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56            -        1,880    5,709      7,589
2025                       857        _           11            64          1S           18         36          6        743         73         i,i08         664          53       4,662        143          930          56             957    1 880    5,709       8 546
1026                     5,567        -          129           418          99          'iS        136         40        743         73         1,999         664          53       4,661        143          939          96           6,281    1,890    5,:709    13,879
102807                   8,566                    60          642          152          182        362         62        743         73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56           9,515    1 880    5,709    17,114
1028-2036                    _           -                        -             -           -         -           -          743        73         1,088         664          53       4,662        143          930          56            -        1,880    5,709      7,589
Capital Costs    Capital Costa    Fuel Casts   Fuel Casti    Capital COsts 15% 11g1cr
I     Base Cane      15% High.r         10% Lacer       20% Higher    10% Loose       & Peel CTsts 20% Higher
Preocat Values of
Total Cost5 at:              10      158,231         176,337           146,159          165,735       154,478             183,841
15     113,444         127,314           164,198          117,649       111,347              131,510
16     107,465         120,739            98,616          111,260       105,568              124,534
18      97,233        19,463             89,080          102,374        95,663              112,603
20      88,751         1009088            81,193            91.395       87,434              102,722
22      81,565          92,124             74,525           83,799        80,448              94,3598
21      75,371          85,243            68,799            77,294        74,415              87,155
26      69,961          79,217            63,790            71,611       69,135               90,867
28      65,182          73,884             59,381           66,617        64,465              75,319
30      60,926          69,124            55,461            62,181       60,299               70,379
32      57,107          64 946            51,948            58 211       56,556               65,949
34      53,661          60,979            48,782            54,636       53,173               61,954
35      52,61          59,181            47,313            52,979       51,602               60,099
40      45,o84          51,329            40,929            45,774        44,739              52,018
4S      39,463          44,985            35,782            39,993       39,198               45,515
50      34,856          39,774            31,578           35,271        34,649               40,188
55      31,028          35,435            28,089            31,356       30,863               35,764
April 1980



- 116 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Alternative Developments
Discount Rate up to which the
Karakaya Project is the
Lease Cost Development
Base Case                                                     53.5%
Capital Costs 15% Higher                                     52.6%
Project's Capital Costs 15%
Higher and Lignite Costs
10% Lower                                                   38.0%
Project's Capital Costs
15% Higher and Lignite
Costs 20% Higher                                            43.5%
Project's Capital Costs
15% Higher and Fuel
Oil Base Case                                               42%
Project's Capital Costs
15% Higher and Load
Forecast 10% Lower                                          42%
Project's Base Costs and
Fuel Oil Alternative
Base Case                                                   48%
April 1980



- 117 -                                            ANNEX 4
Attachment 4
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPCWER PROJECT
Costs, Benefits and Rate of Return on the Project (Economic Values)
(LT Millions)
Year ending              -----------------------COSTS ---------------------         ----BENEFITS---
December 31,             Capital Costs        0 & M Costs        Total Costs        (Current Rates)
1980                     10,062                -                 10,062                 -
1981                      5,717                _                  5,717                 _
1982                     10,059                -                 10,059
1983                     10,874                -                 10,874
1984                      7,948                -                  7,948
1985                      3,393               136                 3,529                4,085
1986                      2,222               162                 2,384                9,380
1987                      1,689               189                 1,878               11,415
1988-2004                      -                 189                   189               11,415
2005                        726               189                   915               11,415
2006                        895               189                 1,084               11,415
2007                      2,424               189                 2,013               11,415
2008                      4,o28               189                 4,217               11,415
2009                      6,151               189                 6,340               11,415
2010                      4,101               189                 4,290               11,415
2011                      4,225               189                 4,414               11,415
2012                      1,464               189                 1,653               11,415
2013                        466               189                   655               11,415
2014-2036                      -                 189                   189               11,415
International Econo=ic Rates of Retu      )
a)  Base Rates as of January 1980                       15.05%
b)  Base Rates 34% higher g/                            18.75%
c)  Base Rates 100% higher 3/                           24.65%
d)  Capital Cost 15% higher                             13.45%
e)  Capital Costs 15% lower                             16.35%
f) Capital Costs 15% and Rates 34% higher               16.95%
g)  Capital Costs 10% lower and
Rates 100% higher                                 26.35%t
1/  Standard conversion factor (0.59).
2/ Conversion factor for consumption goods (0.79).
3/ Rates expected to be in effect over the
Project period.
April 1980



- 118 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Engineering and Economic Feasibility of Keban Dam and Hydroelectric
Project of the Firat River Development, Ebasco Services, USA, 1963.
2.   International Water Problems, Keban Dam - Euphrates River, Hathaway et al,
1965.
3.   Lower Firat Project Feasibility Report, Electro-Watt et al, 1970.
4.   Karakaya Dam and Hydroelectric Project, Electro-Watt et al, 1970.
5.   Karakaya Hydroelectric Power Development, Supplementary Information,
Electro-Watt et al, 1976.
6.   Optimum Development of the Electric Power Sector in Turkey, a case study
using Linear Programming, IBRD, 1972.
7.  Karakaya Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plan Main Civil Works Contract, DSI,
1976.
8.   Studies of Reservoir Filling for Projects on the Euphrates River, R.L.
Walker & Partners, 1974.
9.   Karakaya Dam and Power Plant, Design Report, Electro-Watt et al, 1974.
10. Karakaya Dam and Hydro-Electric Power Plant, Bidding Documents, DSI,
1974.
11. Project Cost Data, DSI/Dolsar 1979.
12. Power Sector Development Data, 1979-1986, TEK/DSI.
13. Karakaya Dam and Power Plant, Drawings, Electro-Watt et al, 1975.
14. Karakaya Project and Its Environment, Electro-Watt et al, 1977.
15. General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works, DSI, 1977.
16. Ic Iskan Hizmetlerinde Karsilasilan Sorunlarin Cozumu Hakkida Yapilar
Calismalar, Koy Isleri Bakanligi, 1976.
17. Studies of Reservoir Filling for Karakaya Project, Euphrates River,
Turkey, R.L. Walker & Partners, 1976.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
18. Preliminary Study of Reservoir Filling and Operation for Projects in the
Euphrates River, Tigris and Euphrates River Basins Work Program, Stage 1,
IBRD 1975.
19. TEK's Wholesale and IETT's Retail Tariffs.
20. Lower Euphrates Basin 1977 Survey, Middle East Technical University,
Istanbul, 1977.
21. Surveys in the Lower Euphrates Basin, O.D.T.U., Ankara, 1977.
22. Appraisal Working papers and Computer printouts.
23. Karakaya Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant Collected Conditions of
Contract - J.V. Italstrade Torno-ERC, December 1976
April 1980






IBRD 14798
BULGARIA    *- A              \                                                                                                                                j AM                                 4                                                      444         OAKLARO AS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                          S.^  S ;R  ',./'  
GREECE        ~     /       I             A                  ~MM                         C0A4AAA                                                                                                                                 AA
h D sDlj  >   f morh sor \t; L   v   ;   : ; 1                               H   (        7       X              \     i                             J  u  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u   s  R
'A                                                            \ t                      ; 0i 4A,-                                                                                                                  t       -4AAf MR
j  A\    --  Aooo A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I     
0  v-A  ,0/0A  T4oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,o~~~~~~~  bioS~~~~~I R                                                                                                                           
:    5~     WoRs                         404,'    '   0-"            4       , ......    '"                               .                                     ,,                                       c       '              ~       /RAat
W .2Ee*Xsysrc+'s'6d;tZbe  f 2   l   F p_   / ;/   wYo  ermens_       fiezende    go             -d7           J /d                                                                          TTUURRKkEEY
_ ep,>oongto>FicaJl/sddomfhed ( g/ __; \ TglYk=,/g g / < ~~~KARAKAYA    HYDROPOWER  PROJECT i
WhsgaRnttwisls;xh!k=r    tS   e -  .   99umy _AioXv2                                      C  f,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
onvS-w t~~~~~~~Es  n 0   ff E    '  eR k   A NF A N                                                                                          ;1hky  enj_K.,.k.,. Hyd--pwe PrulecF
_   ,   f   _                                                                                                                                        IHERMAt KYDR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWER PLAHITS
A                 '$ 'A\  SAN      -      A -      A,OA                                       , A                                                    S Y R I A
MED/iEREAA/EA/'. SEM  b 5    t:  J  t  P A N                                       3f          ).~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRNSO'ME SATON
I. REA   <   1 5 0 a  t.   KlLO.MRTERb DC i90  29D     2,D0 2do         y LEBANON )                                                                      _._InternpelonalboTnd*r>e-
M3d'                                                                       3;     F'                                                                                                       R A






IBRD 12793RI
APRIL 1980-
360                        39'                        420                         450                        48'
B L A CK    SEA                                                    U           S           S.    R. 
o Amosyo                                                                 /
T   U   R   K S Yt                                                                       
0 Sivas                                                   /4./                                                     4, 9
39,                       KEBA~
o Kayseri                       E  DuS
>     %_ Asod                        0 Siirt0
F1ATTRK DAM          Oardin        >      J         
00~~~~~~~~~~
Adana           Go iantep                          -UrfaM _ _-
0            0         irecik~    Ceyl-anpin  r X   Nei  y  
Cut )  \*>      ~      r     <    Oo\/    \~                                                                                         36-
9  .     O~~~Halab  d%e5e,ir0                              Al Mawsil  1/<
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
t               EUP&t~~~~~ PH  A                                      t0                                                A  N
< r R s~~~ Y    R                   I  A -)4
BEI                                                            HADI 
</*~~~~~~~~~A
ODAMASCUS                                                        Ron                  AGHDAD    )                                  33'
K            g                                       8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arrage  TI rs L,nk Conal ,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ~      ~    ~~~~ a Hrbboni oh 8  ,
   >.          \                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rese,voir  a   ldy ,- 
J       O R    D    A    N ><i 
TURKEY                       *'*>                                                                |  L
THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT -                                                                   AnNasiy
Hydropower Developments in the Euphrates River Basin
Hydropower Projects
Project                         __ 
30'        =      Under Construction or Planned
_     Ex,st,ng                      0    50   100  150  200    N
Rivers~I   1 
KILOMETERS              
I Intermittent Lakes                                                                 -.E.EC  NEUTRAL
-   Internationol Boundaries                                                               ZONE_,,,'
of thar.     of the-repor tow hihit ishdateha. Th. d.-sti-tlS -ookanwd th.
tfilhgtes, ssy_og nthton th le.galstatoh any     S A U D I   A R A BtI Ayr
opoe.tne of 00h boo-ndar-o.4
39                              42-                              45                             48 
1                                1                                1                                1      A



