Document of
The World Bank                            COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE
Report No. P-2789-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
April 25, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Calendar 1978    July 1979        Jan. 1980 /1
US Dollar 1                            TL 24.28       TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.00 /3
TL 1                    =              US$ 0.04       US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01
/1  Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL70/$1
was used for this report.
/2 Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL35 = US$1.00
/3 Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate is
TL55 = US$1.00.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW                   = kilowatt         One kilogram (kg)
MW                   = 1,000 kW           (1,000 grams)         = 2.2 pounds
kWh                  = kilowatt hour   One tone (metric ton)
GWh (Gigawatt hour) = 1,000,000 kWh       (1,000 kg)            = 2,205 pounds
kV (kilovolt)        = 1,000 volts      One kilocalorie (kcal)
One meter (m)        = 3.28 feet          (1,000 calories)      = 3.968 BTU
One kilometer (km)  = 0.624 miles       Cumecs (m3/second)      = 35.31 cubic feet
per second
FISCAL YEAR
March 1 to February 28
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEAS      -  Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Power Company)
DSI       -  Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
EIE       -  Elektrik Isleri Etut Idaresi (Electric Studies Institute)
IETT      -  Istanbul Elektrik, Tramway, Tunel Isletmeleri (Istanbul
Electricity Tramway and Tunnel Company)
MTA       -  Mineral Research Institute
SEE       -  State Economic Enterprise
SIB       -  State Investment Bank
SPO       -  State Planning Organization
TEK       -  Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI       -  Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal Enterprises)
TPAO      -  Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum
Corporation)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Amount:              US$120.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years of grace, with
interest at _ percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project will add 1800 MW of additional capacity to the
Turkish power system, with an average yearly generation of
7750 GWh of relatively low-cost hydropower, thus contri-
buting to reduced dependence on more expensive energy
sources and savings in foreign exchange. It comprises
a 173 metres high, concrete arch-gravity dam which will
create 5.62 km3 live storage reservoir (9.6 km3 total
storage) on the Euphrates river, a power house contain-
ing six 300 MW turbo-generator units and appropriate
accessory equipment. It also includes resettlement of
population, estimated at 17,000 living in 34 villages, and
relocation of existing railway lines (33 kms), roads (35
kms) and two bridges.
In addition to help meeting growing power demand in
Turkey, the project, together with the existing Keban dam
(16.3 km3 of live storage) will result in a better regula-
tion of Euphrates river-flows, thereby benefitting power
and irrigation projects downstream. The project faces no
special risks, although realization of benefits will
depend heavily on adequate and timely coordination of
activities during project implementation, including
adequate financing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:    About $1,160 million equivalent, (excluding interest
during construction of $138.2 million) broken down as
follows:
-      US$ Million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
Preliminary Works                              32.1       12.4       44.5
Civil and Hydraulic Works
(Contract No. 1)                             81.1      205.6      286.7
Turbines and Generators
(Contract No. 2)                              2.3      119.5      121.8
Electromechanical Equipment
(Contract No. 3)                              1.6       55.9       57.5
Engineering Services                            6.0        9.5       15.5
Land Appropriations                            59.9         -        59.9
Resettlement                                  113.6         -       113.7
Subtotal                                 296.7     402.9      699.5
Physical Contingencies                         47.6       52.2       99.8
Price Contingencies                            94.3       25.3      119.6
Total                                    438.5      480.4     918.9
Expenditures up to 1979                       120.0      121.5      241.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      558.5      601.9   1,160.4
Physical contingencies are estimated at 20 percent for
civil works and related equipment, and 5 percent for
turbo-generators. Price contingencies where applicable
have been calculated in dollar terms, for both local and
foreign costs as follows:
CY
1980   1981   1982   1983-85   1986-87
---------------(percent)--------------
10.5     9       8         7        6
Financing Plan:                                        ---US$ Million---
(including expenditures made up to end 1979)           Local     Foreign
Swiss Financing                                          295
World Bank                                               120
European Investment Bank (EIB)                           110
Italy                                                     20
Abu Dhabi Fund                                            26
Turkey                                       558          31
558        602
Turkey will meet the financing charges during construction,
estimated at about $138 million.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursement:                   ------------------US$ Million-----------------
FY  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Annual                       22    19    17    14    17    13    12          6
Cumulative                   22    41    58    72    89   102   114   120
Rate of Return:       15 percent.
Appraisal:            Report No. 2848-TU, dated April 25, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$120 million, to help
finance part of the foreign exchange costs of the Karakaya hydropower project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum. Besides Swiss export financing already
arranged, the European Investment Bank (EIB) proposes to cofinance the project
with a loan of $11% million. Italy has agreed to provide $20 million, and Abu
Dhabi Fund, $26 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). Following discussion with the
Government in mid October 1979, its report entitled "Turkey: Policies and
Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979. A Postscript to the Special
Economic Report was distributed to the Board on March 24, 1980. Their find-
ings are reflected in this Part. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends-and Policies
3.        As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderniza-
tion, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent
and 7.2 percent respectively during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan
(1968-72), and Third Plan (1973-77) periods. This compares favorably with
the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP grew on
an average 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-70 and 6.1 percent per annum
between 1970-77. Moreover, the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was
achieved without significant deposits of oil or other important natural
resources.
4.        Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew at 2.5 percent per annum, rapid GDP growth nevertheless
allowed substantial advances in per capita income. However, rising income
levels were not accompanied by better income distribution and significant
sectoral and regional inequalities in income exist, although basic needs have
been satisfactorily met.
5.        The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-77, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21



- 2 -
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-77 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.        Turkish development between 1963-77, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent
in 1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent
for middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance
of payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed
inflow of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment
relative to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-70s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary pres-
sures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a relatively
high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflecting signif-
icant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job creation in
non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to other large
middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate generation of
additional employment has become more serious following the near cessation of
workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the growing dynamism
of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by inefficient State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to market forces and
serve not only economic but social goals; their growing deficits have imposed
an inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambitious investment programs
were financed through Central Bank borrowings, since their controlled prices
have, until recently, not enabled most of them to generate sufficient cash to
cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth, due to the successes achieved
since the early sixties through economic planning, there has been an increas-
ing tendency to plan to a micro-level and seek to achieve changes through
administrative fiat; however, the economy has reached a stage where such
excessive reliance on this becomes counter productive; planning needs to be
increasingly geared towards setting a framework in which market forces
could secure the desired economic results in both the public and private
sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts up to Mid-1979
7.        These economic, institutional and structural characteristics of
the economy made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import
prices (including oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession,
inflation and rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors



- 3 -
played a key part in the deterioration of the Turkish economy. However, the
politically weak governments, their policies in response to these factors and
their efforts to pursue high growth policy despite the worsening international
environment with increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together
created forces that brought about the economic crisis that began in mid-1977
and still continues. The detailed analysis of the causes of this crisis and
the government's attempts to stabilize the economy in the short-run up to
mid-1979, is provided in the above-mentioned Special Economic Report and in
paras. 8 through 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for
the Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.        The new IMF Standby, which replaced the one arranged in April
1978, was negotiated after the government took the following overdue measures
in March/April 1979, to reverse the continuing adverse economic trends: (a)
to improve the balance of payments, the TL was devalued in several steps until
June, when a new buying rate of TL 47.10 per US$1 was established for most
foreign trade and all invisibles; the new rate represented a depreciation in
export-weighted terms of nearly 75 percent since the end of 1970, and more
than offset the differential inflation rate during the course of 1978-79
between Turkey and its major trading partners; (b) to further stimulate
exports of industrial and mining products, exporters were allowed to retain 50
percent (up from 25 percent) of their foreign exchange earnings to finance
their imported inputs or those of their local suppliers; (c) to improve the
financial position of SEEs, further substantial price increases (34 percent to
110 percent) were announced for a number of products, raising them above world
prices at the new exchange rate; these increases were estimated to yield an
additional TL 80 billion in FY1979, to help reduce the overall borrowing
requirement of the public sector; and (d) to ensure more effective mobiliza-
tion and allocation of resources, interest rates for deposits and loans were
increased substantially, from up to a maximum of 16% p.a. to over 24% p.a.;
repatriated savings of migrant workers were allowed an additional interest
premium.
9.        The July 1979 Standby covered a twelve month period, and foresaw
total purchases of SDR 250.0 million in four tranches - SDR 70.0 million
initially, and SDR 60 million each after November 1979, March 1980, and June
1980. It provided for a series of specific performance targets to strengthen
the public finances, reduce inflation and improve the balance of payments
situation in the short term. These measures were expected to prevent further
deterioration in the balance of payments during 1979, with essential imports
projected at $5.0 billion, about the same level as the previous year in real
terms. A substantial increase in workers' remittances to a level of $1.2
billion was expected to compensate for the increasing interest payments on
foreign debt. At the same time, disbursements of medium- and long-term
foreign aid (including the Bank's Program Loan) were expected to increase
markedly in 1979, thus reducing the need for renewed short-term borrowing.
10.       In 1978, short-term debts continued to grow.  However, 1979 wit-
nessed the completion of a major Turkish effort to alleviate the primary



- 4 -
external debt issue through: (a) slowing the growth of short-term liabilities;
(b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new sources of credits,
especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation, arranged through
the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consolidation of $1.14
billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT debt, as
well as amounts due over the 13-month period May 21, 1978 to June 30, 1979. A
second such major rescheduling took place in July 1979 involving about $1.02
billion of the official bilateral and private guaranteed credits due between
July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980.  A third major arrangement, finalized in July
and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled convertible lira deposits
($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and third party reimbursement
credits ($300 million).  About $317 million in oil debt was also rescheduled.
The total amount thus tescheduled was about $5.5 billion. This is perhaps the
largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
11.       Turkey also succeeded in 1978 and 1979, though to a limited extent,
in diversifying the sources and increasing the level of M&LT commitments,
including $250 million in project credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the
most important arrangement arrived at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging
of $1.45 billion in special assistance, including about $900 million in M&LT
bilateral credits and export credits, besides $407 million of medium-term
credits from commercial banks (finalized in September 1979). Agreements for
all these funds were expected to be finalized before the end of 1979. By that
time, about $750 million of this was estimated to be disbursed.
Economic Situation As Of End 1979
12.       The economic crisis still continues.  The measures taken in the
context of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement have essentially succeeded in
arresting further economic deterioration. Since it came into effect only in
July 1979, it was recognized that the stabilization objectives which could be
realized within one year were necessarily limited, and the progress towards
them within the remaining six months of 1979 would also be quite modest.
13.       After a surge up to mid 1979, worker remittances slowed down;
nevertheless, they totalled about $1.7 billion, against $983 million in 1978
and the Standby's target of $1.2 billion.  Industrial exports rose quite
strongly in the first half of 1979 in response to the changes in the parity
value of the TL in April and June 1979; but they subsequently slowed down,
presumably, partly due to severe shortages of imported inputs and partly due
to the anticipation of further devaluation in the second half of that year.
Overall, exports totalled about $2.3 billion in 1979, against the Standby's
target of $2.7 billion.  As a result of higher prices and the necessity of
purchasing oil on spot markets, the 1979 oil bill rose from the projected $1.7
billion to nearly $2.5 billion. While imports in 1979 were contained at $5.1
billion, marginally higher than the Standby's target of $5.0 billion, the
large oil bill necessitated more than anticipated reductions in essential
imports. The problem was compounded by a much lower inflow of new capital
than that envisaged in July 1979, because a significant part of the $900
million committed by bilaterals in May 1979 at the OECD meeting had not been
made effective up to December 1979; besides, only a portion of what was made



- 5 -
effective was available to finance imports in 1979. Disbursements were
also lower than expected against the $407 million of new commercial bank
financing, because of its linkage with the November 1979 tranche of the
Standby Arrangements which could not take place in time due to a change of
government in Turkey in late 1979. Consequently, while the estimated current
account deficit of $1.6 billion in 1979 was more or less in line with the
target in the Standby Arrangements, the volume of imports declined by about 15
percent in 1979, following a decline of about 30 percent in 1978. Overall,
GNP growth in 1979 was about 1.5 percent. Under the great pressure imposed by
extremely limited supplies of vital imported inputs and products, including
oil, the resulting shortfalls in export earnings, the shortages of a wide
variety of consumer goods, and much stronger pressure on wages than antici-
pated at the time of the Standby, the rate of inflation reached 64 percent in
1979.
January 1980 Economic Program and Policy Objectives
14.       Despite the difficult stabilization measures adopted since 1978
and those reflected in the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, the economic crisis
persisted throughout 1979. Following elections in October 1979 a new govern-
ment was formed. It obtained a vote of confidence in late November 1979.
Bold and far-reaching measures to reverse the economic situation were announced
on January 25, 1980. These are summarized in Annex II and more fully discussed
in Part II of the President's Report (No. P-2725-TU) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980. The
announced economic policy objectives underlying these measures represent a
basic departure from the past planning objectives. Turkey has undertaken,
through this program, the essential first steps to initiate major structural
and institutional changes in the key areas summarized in para 6, so as to
foster medium-term economic development on a stable basis.
15.       Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a
modification of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, and the
release of a larger second tranche on February 21, 1980. On March 24, 1980,
it approved the release of an increased third tranche. Thus, of the balance
of SDR 180 million remaining in their July 1979 Standby, only SDR 20 million
remains for release by end June 1980. In addition, compensatory financing of
SDR 71.6 million has been provided on February 21, 1980 together with the
modification of the Standby. Together, this results in the provision of $301
million (SDR 231.6 million) now with $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be
provided in June 1980. In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the
provision of sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief
operation. Also, in meetings sponsored under OECD auspices on March 26 and
April 15, $1.16 billion of bilateral aid was pledged. The success of the
January 1980 measures is clearly dependent not on Turkey's own further efforts
alone, but also on the willingness of the international economic and financial
community to provide adequate and timely assistance in the period immediately
ahead. The alternative for Turkey would be to cut back on imports, already
pared to the bone; this, in turn, would postpone the possibility of economic
recovery even further, jeopardize its efforts to curb inflation, and hamper
the success of the bold structural changes it has initiated.



- 6 -
16.       The new economic policy objectives underlying the Government's
stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of the economy," can
be summed up as follows:
(a) Greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces by both the
public and private sectors, and lesser reliance than hitherto
on planning up to micro-levels and on administrative fiats to
realize planned targets and objectives.
(b) Reduction in the rate of inflation and improved management of
balance of payments and external debts have the highest
priority; in the process, Turkey may have to accept temporarily
a lower GNP growth.
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, on
which Turkish development policy hitherto relied and which
resulted in a bias favoring production for the domestic
markets, must give way to policies encouraging the public
and private sectors to be efficient and internationally
competitive.
(d) In future, reliance must be placed on exports and foreign
currency earning activities to finance Turkey's economic
needs; the implementation of rational exchange rate policies
and of measures encouraging exports are essential to achieve
this objective.
(e) The SEE sector must be reformed, by exposing it to market
forces, by allowing it to set its own prices and by improv-
ing its management; through such actions, it must generate
its own resources to cover operating costs and investment
expenditures.
(f) Domestic resource mobilization efforts, unlike the past, must
be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts, the
banking system, increased savings and the development of
financial markets; the elimination of deficits of the public
sector is an important objective of budgets from 1980 onwards.
(g) Investments aiming at fuller utilization of existing produc-
tive capacity and completion of those ongoing projects
requiring modest inputs should have first priority; there-
after, the priority should be for new investments stressing
exports and employment or those removing critical infra-
structural bottlenecks; in any event, investments should be
tailored to scarce resources.
(h) Conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry
and agriculture must be created, in contrast to the past when
such investments were not encouraged; prudent external debt
management policies to create confidence in and flow of large
external resources to Turkey should be followed.



-7-
17.       These are radical departures from past Turkish economic policy.
Considerable effort will be required to implement the new policies and com-
plete the structural and institutional changes which Turkey has begun. The
difficulty of the task should not be underestimated. The key policy areas
are: (a) a rational exchange rate policy; (b) policies ensuring increased
export earnings and encouraging foreign investments; (c) reform of the SEE
sector, and the use of market forces to improve its efficiency and output as
well as that of the private sector; (d) policies to improve domestic resource
mobilization; and (e) formulation and pursuit of rational external debt
management policies.
18.       The actions taken by Turkey since 1978 in these areas, including
measures in the January 1980 program and those planned for implementation in
the medium-term, are summarized in the Table in Annex II. Progress in
implementing them so as to foster economic recovery in the medium-term will
be the focus of two reviews in July 1980 and December 1980, under the recently
approved Structural Adjustment Loan. While all the issues listed in the Table
are important, two of them merit further discussion: (a) external debt
management and (b) public sector investment program.
19.       Turkey's external debt management policy has to grapple with several
difficult issues. First, the large overhang of debt, and the relatively hard
terms of the recent debt reschedulings, together raise a question regarding
the need for further rescheduling in the near-term. A substantial improvement
in the repayment profile of the rescheduled debts and the containment of
Turkey's short-term indebtedness over the medium-term to no more than the
present level of about $3.8 billion is necessary to alleviate the heavy debt
servicing burden over the next 5 years; a critical element here is the likely
posture of commercial creditors, which cannot be easily anticipated. Second,
it is important that Turkey obtain sizeable external credits on as long-term
and concessional a basis as possible, to complete ongoing projects and under-
take new ones in accordance with its stated investment criteria (para. 20).
Recognizing the importance of these issues and the longer-term concerns
regarding its creditworthiness that its creditors have, Turkey has been
focussing its attention on evolving a balanced and prudent policy for external
debt management. The Government has already initiated a comprehensive study
of external debt, which it expects to complete before October 31, 1980. This
study should help Turkey to further improve and refine its present external
debt management policy; that should also assist Turkey in exercising greater
control over the level and terms of new external financing it would seek from
various external sources over the next five years.
20.       As discussed earlier, the overall size and quality of the public
investment programs until 1977 have contributed to the economic crisis.
Actions taken over the last several months provide some evidence that given
the severe domestic and foreign exchange constraints, public investment
expenditures are being channelled towards projects meeting strict investment
criteria. However, the January 1980 program and the policy announcements
accompanying it go beyond that. They emphasize that since control of
inflation is more important at present than the past Turkish strategy of
concentrating only on higher growth, the projected level of annual investments



- 8 -
must be rigorously tailored to meet the availability of scarce resources
each year. Investments in fiscal 1979 were lower in real terms than those
in fiscal 1978. The Government proposes to continue that trend for fiscal
1980. Priority is to be accorded first to investments designed to utilize
existing productive capacity more fully and to complete ongoing projects which
can yield attractive returns with modest additional investments. Thereafter,
the priority for new investments is for productive projects either contributing
to exports or employment, or for those which remove critical infrastructural
bottlenecks. A new Incentives and Investment Department has been established,
whose purpose is to review which ongoing investments should be stopped,
deferred or completed on an accelerated basis.
21.       Successful implementation of the economic reorientation begun in
January 1980 will take time, require persistence and courageous action on
the part of the Government and call for substantial support from the inter-
national community. In the medium term, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and reestablish a path of stable economic growth.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
22.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83), approved by Parliament in
November 1978, was in many essential ways an extension of the traditional
Turkish development planning.  It set out to complete the unfinished tasks
of the Third Plan, and continued to emphasize a high growth rate, a large
investment allocation for import substitution in basic and intermediate goods
industries, and reliance on administrative controls rather than on market
incentives. But it also attempted to address some development issues which
came to the fore during the economic crisis, i.e. export growth and increased
savings. Consequently, an export growth target of 18 percent p.a. in real
terms and a marginal savings ratio of 34 percent were set, and priority was
also accorded to export-oriented investments. But investment allocations
provided mixed signals, favoring import substitution. In view of the continua-
tion of the economic crisis, the unattainability of the targeted marginal
savings ratio, and the difficulties that Turkey is facing currently, the
Fourth Plan targets of investment and growth are clearly not going to be
achieved.
23.       Against this background, the Bank has made its own prognosis based
on a general equilibrium model of the economy which permits quantification of
alternative policies and a detailed and consistent examination of Turkey's
medium-term prospects. Given the accumulation of economic problems of the
last three years, the political difficulties besetting the country, the addi-
tional resources needed to cover the significantly increased cost of imports
(including oil), and the limitations which Turkey is likely to encounter over
the medium-term in significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, GDP
growth in real terms may average around 4 percent p.a. with a real growth of
exports about 12 percent p.a., during 1980-85. These growth rates appear
attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate economic policies (including
those announced in January 1980), and taking into account the low export base



and present underutilization of capacity. 1/ The international oil situation,
following the recent substantial oil price increases at end-1979, has a
major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey allows only a marginal
increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a lower level of growth,
the oil import bill is estimated to increase to $3.2 billion in 1980 and $6.1
billion by 1985, which as a percentage of merchandise exports and non-factor
services reached 78.1 percent in 1979 and is likely to remain at a level of
about 68 percent until 1985. The pressure this will exert on Turkey's already
difficult balance of payments position is obvious. Although in constant
dollars the ratio appears manageable, in current prices the projected current
account deficit as a percent of GNP increases from 3 percent in 1979 to about
5.3 percent in 1980 and remains at a level of about 4 percent thereafter until
1984. Considering the limitation on the gross inflows of available external
assistance and given the need for sound external debt management, Turkey can
sustain an average annual current account deficit of the order of $2-2.2
billion annually over the next 5 years.
24.       Taking into account international inflation and the growing obliga-
tions for debt amortization, this situation necessitates a large and sharply
increasing gross annual average inflow of foreign capital, rising from the
current relatively low levels to about $5.2 billion during the next five
years, implying an annual average of about $2.3 billion of net capital inflow
for the same period. Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be
sustained on the basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt
service obligations are likely to remain very high over the coming 5 years.
In 1978, total debt service payments had risen to 26.7 percent of exports of
goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances after making allowance for
the rescheduled service payments. In 1980, the ratio is projected to reach
close to 37 percent, and is likely to peak in 1985 at a high level of about 48
percent, before declining. This, however, should represent the culmination of
the financial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should
remain manageable, provided the new policies are successfully implemented and
the export drive is sustained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
25.       A large lending program for Turkey essentially began following the
introduction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA have
lent $2,320 million through 56 projects. Agriculture accounts for 30 percent
of funds lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent, power for 14 percent and
urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex
III contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has
been satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst
1/   See "Turkey:  Postscript Special Economic Report", Attachment 1, Report
No. 2918-TU, dated March 20, 1980, circulated to the Executive Directors
on March 24, 1980.



- 10 -
ministries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project
reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted
in distinct, but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was
again reviewed with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with
the then Prime Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new
high-level coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and
achieving realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of December
1979 disbursements increased to 69 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975. The last joint review was held in April 1979. The
encouraging progress that is now manifest allows cautious optimism that
performance will gradually improve further.
27.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial
and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment opportunities
and living standards, through rural and urban development projects; (c) lagging
public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved management
and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure posing
critical bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
new government on how its lending can best contribute to the government's
medium-term objectives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped
by past policy and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and
industry remain the key sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects empha-
size livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close
macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work
planned over the next few months includes an updating economic mission and
completion of sector memoranda on industry and energy. In addition, the
progress made in fostering the structural adjustments initiated by the Govern-
ment through the January 1980 program will be discussed in the context of the
disbursements of the Structural Adjustment Loan.
28.       A thirteenth TSKB loan designed to stimulate investments in export
projects of the private sector, loans for a Private Sector Textile Project
and an engineering loan to assist the alleviation of air pollution in Ankara,
were approved by the Board in the first four months of FY80. A loan for
Structural Adjustment was approved on March 25, 1980. The Sumerbank Textile
and the Fifth Livestock Development Projects are scheduled for Board considera-
tion later this fiscal year. Projects being processed for future fiscal years
include those for pilot enhanced oil recovery and oil exploration, fruit and
vegetables, livestock products, rural development, fertilizer production,
employment generation in selected cities, pulp manufacture, seed production
and sewerage disposal in Istanbul.
29.       The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (includ-
ing short-term obligations) was 5.9 percent in 1978, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and to 12.5 percent by 1985. The Bank's share of



- 11 -
service payments is projected to fall slightly from its level of 7.7 percent
in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
30.       IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of March 31, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $208 million, of which $96 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE POWER SUB-SECTOR AND ENERGY SECTOR
Power and Energy Resources
31.       The spiralling cost of imported oil and the current serious fuel and
power shortages make energy supplies a critical constraint on Turkey's growth.
Turkey's main indigenous energy resources are hydropower and lignite. Other
resources consist of coal, bituminous schist, oil, uranium and geothermal
energy. The total hydropower potential is estimated at 100,000 GWh p.a., with
a corresponding installed capacity of 25,000 MW; of which nearly 30 percent
is developed or under construction. Lignite reserves, estimated at about 5.5
billion tons, are sufficient to provide fuel for about 10,000 MW of thermal
power plants. The estimated oil reserves are in the order of 60 million tons,
but intensive prospecting for oil and gas has not yet been done. The known
reserves of uranium totals 4,500 tons of uranium oxide (U 0 8). Geothermal
energy resources, thought to be fairly abundant have not been adequately
evaluated so far. The first geothermal power plant is currently under con-
struction. Non-commercial energy sources, wood and wastes, which contributed
more than half of Turkey's energy supply in 1960 have declined to less than 20
percent by 1978.
32.       Imported oil meets over 50 percent of Turkey's commercial energy
needs. The principal domestic alternatives for producing electric power are
low-calorific lignite, hydropower, plus reserves of geothermal energy. At
present, the development of lignite and water as energy sources is being
emphasized.
Capacity and Demand
33.       Turkey's installed public generating capacity at the end of 1978
totalled 4,125 MW; of this, 92 percent was owned by Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu
(TEK) and 7 percent by Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (CEAS). In addition, munic-
ipalities and self-producers have a combined capacity of 742 MW. The annual
growth rate of electricity sales during 1965-78 was about 11 percent, and
would have been higher but for constraints in generating capacity. Industrial
users predominate and have maintained a relatively constant share of about
73 percent in total electricity consumption over the past 15 years.
34.       The national load forecasts for the period 1979-1986 show an annual
growth rate in sales of 14 percent until 1986 and 9 percent thereafter.



- 12 -
The maximum demand would increase from 4,060 MW in 1979 to 11,240 MW in 1986.
The 1979-86 development program would add 5,542 MW of hydro plant and 6,695 MW
of thermal plant to the power system, and the installed capacity is expected
to grow from 4,867 MW in 1978 to 15,976 MW in 1986. Most of the thermal plants
will be fuelled with lignite. Major projects intended to meet the projected
demand are: Keban hydro-power (1,260 MW), partly commissioned; Elbistan
lignite (1,200 MW), under construction and partly financed by the Bank (Loan
No. 1023-TU); and the proposed Karakaya hydropower project (1,800 MW). Major
power generation will be concentrated in eastern and central Turkey, and
most of it will have to be transmitted an average of 700-800 km, to the main
consumption centers in the western part of the country. Transmission network
construction will include 5,670 km of 380 kV, 45,000 km of 154/60-kV and 30-kV
lines, and 22,360 MVA in substation capacity. This development program for
1980-86 is estimated to cost about $22 billion in early 1980 prices, and the
Karakaya project represents 4 percent of this total. However, it is clear
that this program is rather optimistic in light of Turkey's financial con-
straints in the medium-term period; nor is such a level of investment likely
to be necessary because the rate of GNP growth in this period, for reasons
discussed in Part I, can be expected to be below the high historical rate
of growth achieved during 1962-77. The Government is therefore reviewing
its Fourth Plan targets. Given the severe domestic and foreign resource
constraints, the level of annual investments in the power subsector, as in
other sectors, are proposed to be vigorously tailored to available resources
each year, and these limited resources are being channelled towards projects
meeting strict investment criteria. Therefore, appraisal has been based on an
alternative load forecast, with an annual trend growth rate of 11 percent.
Nevertheless, in view of the present serious energy situation, Turkey must
speedily augment power generating capacity, especially that based on cheaper
hydropower, to reduce its dependence on expensive imported oil. Indeed,
Turkey's present economic difficulties, combined with the high costs of
imported oil, has led to even existing oil-fuelled generating capacity not
being fully utilized, resultant drastic power cuts, and consequent loss of
production to the economy.
Energy Policy
35.       Against the setting described above, a major objective of Turkey's
energy policy is optimum utilization of indigenous resources to restrain the
growing dependence on imported oil. Turkey is therefore trying to develop its
own energy resources, particularly hydropotential of the Euphrates River and
lignite deposits at Afsin-Elbistan. The hydropower potential and lignite
reserves could cover power generation needs almost to the end of this century.
Although not economically justified before 1994, the first nuclear power plant
is planned for 1988 to obtain required experience in construction and operation.
36.       Apart from measures to develop indigenous energy resources and
restrain oil consumption through price increases and restricted supply, the
Government plans to expand petroleum exploration activities by increasing the
financial resources available for this purpose, encouraging joint-venture
exploration efforts in collaboration with foreign oil companies, providing
increased incentives for offshore exploration and application of enhanced



- 13 -
recovery methods to existing oil fields. However, despite all these measures,
Turkey is unlikely to accomplish its objectives of meeting 60 percent of the
demand for domestic production during this decade, unless sizeable new reserves
are discovered in the near future. National energy policy focusses on effec-
tive energy conservation (about which much remains to be done), development of
oil-shale, geothermal and solar energy, and long-range energy planning encom-
passing viable supply options, together with demand and utilization patterns.
Institutions
37.       Under the general authority of the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MOE), responsibility for electricity generation and supply is
divided between:
(a) The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK), an SEE formed in 1970
with primary responsibility for electrical energy planning as well
as construction and operation of thermal generation and transmission
facilities;
(b) The State Hydraulic Works (DSI), a semi-autonomous agency
with responsibility for the planning of water resource devel-
opment and for the construction of hydroelectric facilities,
in coordination with TEK, which assumes ownership after such
facilities are brought fully into commercial operation;
(c) two concessionary utility companies, authorized to generate
and distribute power in four out of a total of 67 Turkish
provinces, the more important being the Cukurova Electric
Company (CEAS) in the Adana region;
(d) municipal authorities, most of whom purchase bulk power from
TEK and distribute it within their jurisdiction.
The principal institutional constraints in the power sub-sector lie in:
(a) coordination and planning; (b) organization, management, and staffing;
and (c) subsector financing. These are discussed below.
38.       Coordination and Planning.  Although the responsibility for coor-
dination and planning is centralized in TEK, significant improvements in the
coordination of planning and the allocation of resources among the various
agencies concerned with power are still needed. Some agencies have, in
practice, maintained a fairly independent role; for example, although the
TEK Law requires close coordination between DSI and TEK in the planning and
design of hydroelectric generating facilities, TEK is not always sufficiently
involved in the identification, selection and design stages of such facili-
ties. Similarly, improved coordination is needed between TEK and the Turkish
Coal Authority (TKI) in the planning of coal and lignite mining development
and related power generation. Moreover, all these plans need to be carefully
evaluated in the light of available local and foreign resources and their
relative priorities established in the context of resource constraints. As a
result, there have been lags in the implementation of some new projects, which



- 14 -
have aggravated shortages of energy supplies. The Government has agreed
to review existing arrangements, with a view to improving coordination
between TEK and DSI for hydro-power development, and between TEK and TKI, in
formulating medium and long-term development plans and integration of their
development programs, and ensuring their timely execution (Loan Agreement
Section 4.06).
39.       Organization, Management and Staffing.  Ever since its creation, TEK
has faced problems of organization, management and staffing. The organiza-
tional structure it inherited from its predecessor organization was not suited
to its widened responsibilities under the TEK Law and recommendations for a
reorganization were formulated in March 1973 by consultants financed under the
Bank's 1967 technical assistance grant. These recommendations aimed at decen-
tralization of authority for operations to regional offices and reorganization
of management responsibilities at headquarters. TEK has already prepared a
reorganization plan, and partially implemented it, with the establishment of
some regional offices. A fuller implementation of this plan must, however,
await an improvement in TEK's staffing situation. To provide TEK's management
with reliable estimates of the magnitude and composition of its future staffing
needs, under the ongoing TEK II project (Loan No. 1194-TU), TEK completed
a detailed manpower study through its consultants, and has agreed to furnish
a program of action to implement the recommendations of the study. However,
in TEK, as in other SEEs, the management's ability to recruit and retain
competent personnel, especially experienced engineers with senior and middle
level management capabilities, has been affected by the Personnel Law govern-
ing SEEs. Attempts to overcome management and staffing problems through
special authority to hire outside personnel on contract, has alleviated the
situation, but is by no means entirely effective. This situation can only be
resolved by a basic SEE reform; though efforts to achieve such a reform did
not succeed in the past, we expect that following the Government's bold and
far-reaching measures enacted early in 1980 to reform the SEE's financial
operations, basic reforms needed in SEE management will receive much needed
attention. This matter, insofar as it relates to TEK, will therefore continue
to be pursued under the on-going TEK II Transmission project. DSI's staffing
is adequate, but it has to strengthen its project management and supervision
capacity. Measures to strengthen DSI project management and supervision
capacity have been proposed under this project (see para. 58).
40.       Sub-Sector Financing.  The problems of coordination and planning
that face TEK, DSI and TKI (para. 38) also affect the financing of investments
for generation and transmission facilities. They are characterized by a lack
of coordinated policies and clear financial goals for the many institutions
involved.
41.      Investments in power generation and transmission are financed through
two principal channels. Government budget and foreign loans are used to
finance the hydro-electric facilities, constructed by DSI, a non-revenue
generating agency. When fully completed and in commercial operation, they are
transferred as Government equity to TEK. On the other hand, thermal genera-
tion and transmission facilities constructed by TEK, are financed by TEK's
internal cash generation and loans from the State Investment Bank and foreign
sources. Municipalities who purchase bulk power from TEK, are responsible



- 15 -
for investments in distribution and related facilities in their jurisdiction.
Municipal tariffs are expected to contribute a reasonable portion of future
investments in the municipal distribution assets. Many municipal organizations
are however involved not only in electrical power distribution, but also in
other activities such as public transportation and gas supply. While municipal
power distribution activities have remained generally profitable, transport,
and to a lesser extent gas supply, have generally incurred heavy losses, which
were met from electricity profits. Against this background, the question of
adequate generation of resources for power subsector investments, especially
of generation and transmission undertaken by DSI and TEK, assumes significance.
42.       TEK is not immediately concerned with the proposed project, but it
will be the ultimate beneficiary when the Karakaya assets are transferred to it
on completion by DSI, several years from now. However, in view of its central
role in the subsector, as the "generator of cash" for major power investments,
it becomes important to pay attention to its financial role in the system.
43.       In its past power loans, the Bank has tried to promote the concept
of the "user paying for service" and TEK generating internal resources to
finance part of its investments. This meant, in practice, a concern with the
financial soundness of TEK as an enterprise, and with TEK's tariffs, receiv-
ables and its rate of return. The loan agreements with TEK (Loan 1023-TU and
Loan 1194-TU) require it to earn an 8 percent return on revalued assets. This
is in line with TEK Law, which requires TEK to earn an 8 percent return on
net fixed assets. However, as the TEK Law does not spell out the manner of
computing the return, or explain what constitutes expenses, these matters have
been clarified in the Loan Agreements with the Bank. They provided that the
rate of return be calculated on the basis of revalued assets, according to a
formula which realistically reflected changes in values as a result of infla-
tion and exchange rate changes.
44.       TEK's financial operations have however been marked by two features:
(i) failure, except in 1972, to earn the minimum 8 percent return on net fixed
assets; and (ii) a chronic shortage of cash, on account of continuing inability
to collect its bills for electricity, mainly from municipalities. The major
reasons for the former were: (i) Government's caution in increasing tariffs
of a basic input like electricity, out of concern that drastic tariff increases
could aggravate inflation and affect Government efforts to control it; (ii) the
tariff increases being largely offset by a significant rise in operating
expenses, caused by substantial increases in fuel prices and wages; (iii) the
expensive generation-mix of TEK, with a large dependence on small, inefficient
and fuel fired plants, as well as small distant hydro sources; and (iv) the
high level of income-taxes payable by TEK (41.7 percent of income).
45.       These difficulties led to serious differences between Turkey and the
Bank and delayed the effectiveness of the TEK II Loan for nearly two years.
In April 1978, following discussions with the then Prime Minister, an agreement
was reached that the Government would increase TEK's bulk tariffs by January
1, 1980 to enable TEK to achieve a 5.5 percent return for 1980 on the basis of
agreed principles, and increase tariffs thereafter, to achieve the 8 percent
return for 1982. Effective February 1, 1980, the Government raised the TEK's



- 16 -
tariffs to 280 krs/kwh, nearly 130 percent above April 1979 levels, as part of
the Government's comprehensive January 1980 economic program. Consequently,
the Government has ensured that, in line with its commitment, TEK will achieve
the agreed 5.5 percent return for 1980. Despite this salutory development,
the pricing of electric power remains affected by two inter-related difficul-
ties: first, the tariffs do not enable TEK to generate internally sufficient
cash to make a reasonable contribution to the cost of its investment program;
and second, the tariff structure is unrelated to either marginal cost or the
cost of supply.  To provide a basis for rationalizing the structure of tariffs
and electricity pricing policies at the bulk supply and distribution levels,
TEK carried out under the TEK II project, with the help of qualified experts,
a nationwide study of tariffs in the power sub-sector, which is now under
review by the Government, TEK and the experts. We expect to exchange views in
the near future on this tariff study's recommendations for a revised power
tariff structure. Nevertheless, given the continuing high rate of infla-
tion and periodic substantial exchange rate changes which affect the revalua-
tion of net fixed assets, it seems more appropriate to relate a rationalized
bulk tariff structure to yield each year adequate level of cash towards the
power investment of both TEK and DSI. The Government has therefore recently
requested the substitution of a viable cash generation covenant for the rate
of return covenant in Loans 1023-TU and 1194-TU. As the objectives of both
the rate of return and cash generation covenants are the same, namely, adequate
cost recovery and generation of internal resources to meet a reasonable part
of future investments, the Bank agreed to consider the request, provided
principles yielding adequate levels of cash generation are reflected in such a
covenant.
46.       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the principles as well
as on appropriate levels of cash generation, gradually increasing over time.
Since TEK's cash generation is also derived in part from assets constructed by
DSI, the cash generation objective would be applied to the total generation
and transmission investments in the power sub-sector, instead of only to TEK's
investments. TEK's cash generation will be computed before income-taxes, but
after deducting total debt service not merely on TEK's loans, but also on
foreign loans incurred by the Government for DSI's hydro projects. It was
agreed that beginning in 1981, TEK would generate not less than 20 percent of
total TEK and DSI investments in the power subsector including interest during
construction, gradually increasing to about 35 percent in 1986 and thereafter.
This will be an interim arrangement, pending the completion of the subsector
financing study (para. 50). The Government will furnish to the Bank by
December 31 each year its total power subsector investments for TEK and DSI in
the coming year, including interest charged during construction, the extent of
cash generation based on TEK's financial forecasts for the coming year and
its proposal for meeting agreed internal cash generation. Following approval
by Parliament of the Government's Budget and the annual investment plan,
including the power subsector plan by end February, the Government will take
necessary tariff measures by May 31 to meet that year's cash generation
requirements (Loan Agreement, Section 4.08).
47.       While the arrangements described above should enable sufficient
mobilization of resources from bulk power users, they will be of little avail
unless TEK can collect these resources. TEK has had serious difficulties in



- 17 -
collecting from municipalities, to whom it sells bulk electricity.   Such
sales account for nearly 35 percent of TEK's sales. There are two principal
reasons for the municipal defaults. First, municipal retail electricity
tariffs were not promptly increased in the past, in line with increases in
TEK's tariffs. Secondly, municipalities were diverting their electricity
surpluses to meet losses in their other activities such as transport and gas.
However, since 1977, the Government has faithfully fulfilled its first commit-
ment to increase municipal retail tariffs promptly, along with increases in
TEK's tariffs. However, municipalities have failed to remit their payments on
time. Therefore, the Government has paid TEK from time to time the municipal
overdues out of municipal taxes collected by it on behalf of the municipalities.
There is an inevitable time lag in making such payments, and the Government
itself recognizes that this unsatisfactory arrangement is a temporary expedient.
As a long-term solution to increase municipal resources, it passed a revenue
law through Parliament in 1979, which was vetoed for various reasons by
Turkey's President. Thus pending further legislative measures, this problem
will have to be dealt with by consolidating municipal dues and by paying them
out of the budget every year. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
explore administrative measures to expedite its payment of dues to TEK on
behalf of municipalities, and to ensure a timely flow of funds to TEK, so that
implementation of important on-going power projects is not delayed.
Proposed Comprehensive Review of Power Sub-Sector Financing
48.       Besides the problems of adequate cash generation and liquidity
for TEK, the situation is compounded by other financial relationships between
TEK and other agencies involved in the subsector. For example the pricing
policies of TKI for coal and lignite it supplies to TEK, and also the policies
regarding petroleum fuel, affect TEK. TKI has been suffering losses, despite
price increases, and these losses have been met by Government. By fixing fuel
prices at uneconomical levels in the past, the Government provided a hidden
subsidy to TEK and therefore to electricity consumers in the country. The
recent increases in coal and lignite prices are expected to enable TKI to
cover its costs and earn a return on investments, thus obviating any indirect
subsidy to electricity consumers. Certain industrial consumers of power are
also directly subsidized by Government through rates lower than the prevailing
tariff, for example, aluminum and ferro-chrome producers. Another matter which
blurs the picture is the transfer of hydro-electric assets constructed by DSI
as Government's equity to TEK. This is advantageous to TEK, as the Government
remains responsible for the related debt service, although this is partially
offset by TEK's liability to pay higher income-taxes; TEK does not get the
benefit of the associated interest charges in computing its income-tax
liability. Finally, the Government siphons away as income-taxes 41.7 percent
of TEK's income. The emphasis on TEK's rate of return obscured the fact that
TEK is only one of the principal agencies in the power sub-sector, and did not
address directly the power subsector, its financial needs, the relationship
between the various agencies operating in the sub-sector, and the total impact
of pricing, capitalization and subsidy policies on the Government's budget.
49.      As part of the January 1980 economic program, the Government has
proposed a radical reform of SEE finances. It has removed many items, except
electricity used for aluminum and ferro-chrome production, coal, lignite and



- 18 -
fertilizers, from the list of basic goods whose prices are subject to Govern-
ment approval. SEEs are now free to determine their prices, based on market
forces, so as to generate sufficient resources for their future investments.
While their investments would be reviewed by the State Planning Organization
to ensure conformity to Plan objectives and their viability, they are no
longer expected to be financed by the Budget, except for physical infrastruc-
ture. While these reforms will go some way towards resolving the problems of
financing in the subsector, it is still necessary to extend the reform of
power subsector financing beyond TEK and to address more directly the broader
issues of power subsector investment priorities and financing. An integrated
view of the subsector's needs and financing policies is needed. The invest-
ment needs of the power development program will be large, even when the
targets are realistically set. In addition to measures to improve coordina-
tion in planning, the Bank had therefore, for sometime, urged the Government
to study the broad question of the financing of power subsector investments,
including not merely TEK, but also DSI and TKI, with a view to establishing
guidelines for pricing of not merely electricity, but also of fuels used in
power generation and for the generation of adequate funds for financing
subsector investments.
50.       The Government has now appointed a committee of experts to review
the electricity demand and supply forecast for 1980-83, the investment programs
of TEK and DSI and to make recommendations for funds to be generated by TEK
and the corresponding level of its tariffs. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on elaborating the Committee's terms of reference to include an
analysis of the Government's fuel pricing policies, treatment of Government's
income taxes, debt service associated with hydroelectric assets, finances of
municipal power distribution agencies and other related matters and on dates
for completing the studies and follow-up actions (Loan Agreement, Section
4.05). This study will help advance the Government's own financial objectives,
as far as the power subsector is concerned. This review should assist in
evaluating the financial contribution made under present arrangements by both
bulk and retail customers to the total generation, transmission and distri-
bution investments and will also concentrate more directly on the real issue
of investment financing of TEK, DSI and the distribution agencies for meeting
Turkey's power needs until 1988.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
51.       Turkey has actively studied plans for the development of the
Euphrates Basin since 1962, and formulated projects for irrigation and power
development. In 1974, it completed the first stage of the Keban power proj-
ect, with a total reservoir capacity of 30.7 km3, useful storage of 16.3 km3
and 1,260 MW installed generating capacity. The Bank chaired the syndicate
for the financing of Keban and participated in the financing of transmission
lines associated with Keban (Loan No. 568-TU). Karakaya represents the second
stage in the basin development program and involves primarily reregulation of
the waters released from the existing Keban reservoir for the generation of



- 19 -
hydropower. The project, like Keban, would have no irrigation uses and does
not involve abstraction of water from the Euphrates River, except for initial
filling. While Bank consideration of the international water aspects of this
and other projects on the Euphrates river in the lower riparian countries
started in 1972, the Government requested Bank assistance for the project
only in January 1975. Following considerable discussions, agreement was
reached in June 1976 on the filling and operational principles to be applied
during the construction and operation of Karakaya which would ensure that the
project would not adversely affect the interests of either Turkey, Syria or
Iraq, with regard to the use of the Euphrates waters. Turkey then communicated
these principles to Iraq and Syria, and offered to discuss the development of
a tripartite system to monitor these principles. It was only then that the
project was appraised in late 1976. But, with the change of government in
1977 and its new outlook on the subsector's financial and related issues,
and on the abovementioned riparian arrangements which were confirmed only in
March 1979, both Turkey and the Bank agreed to defer consideration of the
project. The request for financing was renewed by Turkey in mid 1979 to the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Bank. The project was reappraised in
November 1979. EIB participated in the reappraisal, and also attended, as
observers, the Bank's loan negotiations held in Washington from March 26 to
April 1, 1980. The Turkish delegation was led by Mr. Gunay, Assistant Director
General of the Treasury.
The Project
52.       The proposed project involves the establishment of a reservoir
having 9.6 km3 of total storage and 5.6 km3 useful storage located about 160
km downstream of the Keban hydropower plant, through the construction of (a)
a concrete arch-gravity dam (173 meters high), with an overflow spillway,
intakes and penstocks, (b) a power house with six 300-MW turbo-generator
units, and (c) appropriate accessory equipment and a switchyard located 2.5
km from the dam. It also includes the relocation of a railway line, roads
and bridges, and resettlement of about 17,000 inhabitants in the reservoir
area. A Staff Appraisal Report (2848-TU) dated April 25, 1980, and entitled
"Appraisal of Karakaya Hydropower Project" is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The estimated total project cost, excluding $138 million of interest
during construction, is about $1,160 million equivalent. Of this, $602
million is in foreign exchange. Turkey has concluded agreements with Swiss
banking institutions, manufacturers and consultants for S.Frs. 509 million
($295 million), which will cover all foreign exchange costs of contracts for
generating units, electro-mechanical equipment and consulting services awarded
to Swiss manufacturers and consultants. In addition to $19 million already
spent, about $12 million will be borne by Turkey, mainly toward foreign exchange
costs of locally procured material. The remainder of the foreign exchange
costs will be financed, in addition to the proposed Bank loan, as follows:
(a) EIB has agreed in principle to provide $110 million equivalent, as co-
financing; its loan negotiations are scheduled in May and consideration by its
Board in June 1980; a letter of administration will be signed by EIB and the
Bank to cover the usual administrative aspects and coordination necessary to



- 20 -
ensure success of the cofinancing arrangements; (b) Italy has agreed to
provide $20 million equivalent; and (c) the Abu Dhabi Fund has indicated to
Turkey its intention to provide $26 million. Signing of the financing arrange-
menLs with Italy and Abu Dhabi Fund would be a condition of the Bank loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). Local financing and financing
of interest during construction, will be secured through annual governmental
budget allocations in accordance with the Project implementation schedule.
However, to ensure timely availability of local funds, it has been agreed that
a special revolving fund will be established, with an initial amount of 500
million TL, equal to three months' estimated civil works expenditure require-
ments, to be replenished monthly (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). The establish-
ment of this revolving fund will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
International Riparian Aspects
54.       Karakaya is a non-water-consumptive project, once the reservoir is
filled. It therefore does not directly raise technical questions of long-term
sharing of waters with the two lower riparians, Syria and Iraq. It does, how-
ever, involve the need to ensure that, during initial filling and subsequent
operation of the reservoir, the interests of the downstream riparians are not
adversely affected. This matter was thoroughly and very carefully studied
during the preparation stages of the Project. In addition, although Karakaya
is non-consumptive, its role in regulating the flow of the Euphrates river,
on which a number of consumptive and non-consumptive projects are under
operation or construction or planned in all three riparian countries, made
its construction an appropriate occasion for assessing the question of long-
term water sharing and for seeking to establish a process for addressing
this question among the three riparians. Thus, the Bank's consideration of
Karakaya from the beginning was based on seeking satisfactory arrangements to
facilitate eventual agreement among the three riparians on long-term sharing
of the waters. These arrangements are summarized in succeeding paragraphs and
discussed in Annex V.
55.       With a view to ensuring that the Karakaya project will not adversely
affect the lower riparians, Turkey's filling and operational proposals for
Karakaya were evaluated by the Bank in the model developed in the technical
study which the Bank undertook in 1974, following a request by Iraq for the
Bank's good offices to help achieve a just and equitable solution between the
riparian countries on the division of the Euphrates waters (an issue which had
become urgent because of the simultaneous filling of the Turkish Keban reservoir
and the Syrian Tabqa reservoir which the Bank, incidentally, had anticipated
since 1972). After discussions with all the riparians, this evaluation
revealed that if Turkey maintains an average monthly discharge of water of at
least 500 cubic meters per second (cumecs), as the Euphrates passes from Turkey
into Syria at Birecik, this would ensure that:  (a) the existing requirements
of downstream riparians for power generation and irrigation needs and reason-
able growth in these requirements during 1975-85, would be met; (b) the Karakaya
reservoir could be filled within a period of three to seven months, depending
on the date of closure and actual water flows; and (c) the Turkish power plants
could be operated for maximum energy output. This operating rule is called the
"Rule of 500". The study also revealed that, while Turkey's release of a
minimum of 500 cumecs would ensure the lower riparians' interests, the benefits
in Syria and Iraq could be further increased, if the Syrian and Iraqi reservoirs
are also operated according to principles developed in the model.



- 21 -
56.       In 1976, in the context of the proposed project, Turkey informed
Syria and Iraq that it would observe the Rule of 500 during the construction,
initial filling and operation of the Karakaya Dam, until such time that any
large water consumptive project is implemented in any of the three riparian
countries, and also of its readiness to initiate tripartite discussions on
the better use of the common waters. Iraq and Syria have yet to accept this
offer, but have made their views known to the Bank, which commented thereon
(Annex V). Subsequently, in March 1979 Turkey's Minister of Energy recorded
an official policy statement in the Turkish Parliament that during construc-
tion, initial filling and operation of Karakaya, the monthly average flow of
Euphrates waters would not fall below 500 cumecs at Birecik, with shortfalls
in any averaging period of not more than a month being made up in the next
period. He also announced that this Rule of 500 would be applied by Turkey
unless very abnormal hydrometerological conditions exist, and as long as
Turkey had not developed a project involving large consumptive use of the
river's waters in its territories. Turkey has also formally represented to
the Bank that in considering Karakaya for financing, the Bank may rely on this
policy statement regarding the international riparian aspects of the project.
57.       The Bank is fully conscious that the arrangements agreed upon by
the Turkish Government in connection with Karakaya are but an initial step
towards a broader agreement between the three riparian countries on the long-
term apportioning of Euphrates and Tigris waters. The Bank has repeatedly
tried since 1965, when this problem was raised in connection with the Keban
Dam in Turkey, to bring about negotiations between the riparians to resolve
this issue. The three riparian countries have themselves held tripartite or
bilateral discussions on this project, but the long-term interests at stake as
well as political differences have proved to be obstacles difficult to over-
come. As a result, several projects, some of them involving consumptive uses,
have been started in the Euphrates and Tigris basins without consultation, let
alone agreement, between the riparians. In all cases where the Bank has been
involved in the financing of such projects (Lower Khalis in Iraq, Balikh in
Syria, and Keban and Karakaya in Turkey), it has carried out detailed studies to
ascertain that the projects would not harm, or not be adversely affected by
developments in the other riparian countries; it has also always endeavoured
to use its good offices in order to bring about tripartite discussions with a
view to making progress towards an agreement on water sharing. As regards
Karakaya, since consumptive use is limited to initial filling, and since the
"Rule of 500" agreed upon by Turkey would adequately protect the downstream
riparians, the Bank considers it appropriate to participate in the financing
of the Project. The Government has agreed to establish an appropriate report-
ing system onthe actual operation of the Project and Euphrates river flows
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
Project Implementation
58.       DSI will be responsible for project execution.  Project construction
began in late 1976, but due to unavailability of adequate foreign exchange
financing, only preliminary works had been completed as of end 1979. The
construction and erection schedule is now phased up to 1987. DSI will con-
tinue to retain consultants to assist in engineering, procurement, supervision
of construction and initial operation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).
Although well-known and experienced consultants are assisting DSI in project



- 22 -
supervision, in view of the project size and its potential risks, DSI agreed
to establish a board of experts, independent of the designers of the project,
to familiarize themselves with the designs and to advise DSI in the event
of unforeseen problems arising during project construction (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03(b)). The establishment of this board of experts will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). To ensure
effective supervision, the Government will establish effective project site
management by October 31, 1980, with a full-time site manager with responsi-
bilities, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, along with
adequate technical and financial authority to solve problems at the site as
they arise (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). As several ministries and agen-
cies, such as those responsible for highways, railways, resettlement, industry
and customs are involved, the Government has already established a central
coordinating committee, which will review progress regularly and help in
resolving difficulties in project coordination and implementation (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.08). The Government will also undertake periodic inspection
of the dam to ensure its sound condition and proper maintenance (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 4.07).
Ecological and Resettlement Aspects
59.       Intensive archaeological investigations, with the assistance of
numerous foreign scientific institutions, over the last ten years, have not
revealed any sites of archaeological or historical significance in the
reservoir area. In view of the potential importance of the ecological aspects
of a project as large as Karakaya, the Government appointed independent con-
sultants to study these aspects in detail. The draft study did not identify
any significant adverse environmental effects. However, it highlighted the
importance of dealing adequately with the problem of resettling about 17,000
inhabitants who would be displaced by the construction works and the filling
of the reservoir. Most are subsistence farmers living in 34 villages, only
3 of which have populations exceeding 1,000 persons. Turkey has legally
established a comprehensive resettlement methodology, so that resettlements
are carried out in a coordinated manner. While persons living on and around
the dam site have already been resettled, DSI has just started addressing the
resettlement of population in areas which will be flooded by the dam. Adequate
funds have been included in the project cost estimates for resettlement. In
addition, the owners of the land or houses in the area which will be inundated
by the Karakaya reservoir will be fairly indemnified under existing law and
provided with at least the same economic benefits they had prior to the flood-
ing of their properties. However, in view of the importance of the resettle-
ment problem, the Government presented, during negotiations, a workable
resettlement plan and a tentative implementation schedule. The Government
has arranged to prepare an inventory of the property which would be submerged
by the project, and is initiating action for their valuation to make compensa-
tion payments. A census of the families requiring Government assistance in
resettlement has been completed, which indicates that only a small proportion
of the population has expressed a preference for Government assistance in
resettlement. Resettlement sites have been tentatively identified, and
Government plans to provide them with accommodation and support services to
enable them to rebuild their livelihood. Further, the Government has agreed



- 23 -
to furnish a detailed implementation schedule by February 28, 1981 and to
ensure that its implementation is fully coordinated with reservoir filling
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       The proposed loan would finance (i) a part of the foreign costs of
the main civil and hydraulic works contract for the Karakaya dam which
amounts to about $260 million including contingencies and (ii) equipment and
materials relating to relocation of railways, roads and bridges. The civil
works contract, which provides for some related permanent equipment, was
awarded in October 1976, after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines and in consultation with the Bank. Advance contracting
of the main civil and hydraulic works is justified, in terms of the project
construction schedule and the Bank's involvement in the project since 1975.
The contracts for turbines, generators and other electro-mechanical equipment,
totalling some $285 million have been awarded by DSI to Swiss manufacturers
after limited bidding to use available Swiss financing. Swiss financing also
includes $10 million for consultants. Equipment and materials relating to
relocation of railways, roads and bridges would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Disburse-
ments of the proposed Bank loan would be 45 percent of the foreign expenditures
on civil works in a cofinancing arrangement with EIB and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for equipment and materials for relocating railways,
roads and bridges. Disbursements are expected to begin in the first half of
FY81 and the loan should be fully disbursed by the end of FY88. Retroactive
financing of not more than $10 million is proposed for civil works expendi-
tures from February 1, 1980.
Operation and Role of DSI and TEK
61.       After the project is in full commercial operation, its assets will
be transferred, in accordance with sound financial and accounting practices,
from DSI to TEK, in the form of a Government equity holding in TEK (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.09(b)).  The Government will be required to ensure that,
apart from TEK operating these assets in accordance with sound public utility
practices, TEK's and DSI's operation of the power plants and reservoir will
be in conformity with the "Rule of 500," described in para. 55. The Govern-
ment has undertaken that TEK will construct the transmission lines needed to
connect the Karakaya facilities with Turkey's national inter-connected power
grid system. To ensure that TEK completes these lines (which are not part of
the proposed project) prior to the commissioning of the project's generating
units, the Government has agreed to (i) provide the Bank with a construction
schedule and a tentative financing plan for these lines by June 30, 1981 and
(ii) make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for securing the financing
needed for the lines to enable their construction by the time the project's
generating units are commissioned (Loan Agreement, Section 4.09(a)).
Economic Justification and Project Risks
62.       The project is the least-cost means of meeting Turkey's projected
growth of power demand at discount rates up to 30 percent. The estimated rate
of return is at least 15 percent, valuing benefits at the present electricity



- 24 -
tariff rates. It is likely that the incremental revenues understate the
benefits, some of which will arise from assured availability of electricity
supply.
63.       The project site has difficult geological conditions and construction
involves large excavation in an area with steep slopes. The geological
investigations for the dam have been thorough and the best site chosen. The
construction risks are normal for this type of project and manageable, with
expert supervision provided by the consultants. The coffer dam and diversion
tunnels have been designed for a flood of 25 years. The existence of a much
larger reservoir in Keban will facilitate handling any floods unforeseen
beyond the design levels. Other potential risks are the flow of adequate
local currency funds, timely supplies of fuel, lubricants and construction
materials and effective project site management. Reasonable precautions have
been taken to ensure that these will be forthcoming.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Features of special interest are referred to in para-
graphs 38, 55, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61 of this Report. Additional conditions of
effectiveness would be: (i) the signing of agreements to finance the remain-
ing foreign exchange costs of the Project; (ii) the establishment of a
special revolving fund to meet local expenditures; and (iii) establishment
of a panel of experts to advise DSI in the event of any unforeseen problems
during Project construction (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). In other respects,
the draft loan documents conform to the normal pattern for loans for power
projects.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
Agreement.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
April 25, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
P         -5 A3                                  Page  1 of 6
fff1 N     MUtFS (AlUSO  AIEM
LAMD SQ. A     A0  Ts. DCD t                                          5 5                    tAS!)
TTL         7u"                                                    Eim SSWT~   '
ARS=ILSD*0.                                                        563         561    0II wimz
hOtIUSttuSAi 332.0                               NMi Sit=        awoa*ine   tiscm          M=cs
it"  /g   197o L  mtmszzb            =IsO   4   cact /  /C   Im
cm  M  CAITTA (CUS)                 290.0        20.0   1210.0           1904.3     1091.7      1962.4
tHW CHMO  R CAPT.A
(KILsWAM oF CDAL sQ:WrVAJ)       s26.0        679.0    743.0           2033.2      730.7      146.7
iPDLTSOtl UD1 7024  524205TS05
ioSo1n         1ILl (MMJ0IS)       27.5       32.3      42.9
311 POUULATZOU (MCZ1T OF 22L) 29.7             35.4      42.9            5 .3       4.0         51.2
V090MA4I20 PRJZ01ZS
POULATION 7JI    20O (I.LLON)                         44.0
StUO6I 100U1   (I.L20i)                              00.0
SU:SO220*1  90101A3   33                          3070t
OoYULATZU mm
Pa I. Di.                        33.0        45.0      54.0            $1.5       4.4         24.2
n SQ. DC. AMLCUIMMAL LAW         51.0       64.0       70.0           134.8      140.7       100.5
0-14 n5.                         41.3        41.7       1O             23.4      41i          33.
1.46 133. 3s.2                                51.0      54.0           42.9       33.3        24.3
45 US. am0 4O1T                    3..         4.3       5.0            10.2        3.3        5.1
ramc 2* (3)
TomL                              1.6          .5       2.5             0.9        2.4        1.7
2312                              S.1,a_      5.1,    4.7               2* 45                 I.0
MOS 1t11 32  (M            hcSmD)    43.0      21.0      30.0            23.5      31.1        27.15
cM     KA62 3U4  CM  TIS)          1D.0        U.0       10.0             9.2    .    .2'       '84
MS  ulmooTIw 2ATE                   1.9         3.        2 24            Li        2.2         14
_n0s,tmS. A0RL CTimi)                        4.6                       _                        -
gums sCPT Of *ur  _ )  3.1                    Si2       5.0              ..      24.7
MIOD zD SO
-x  eF rDD soonowcuau
M  CAPITA (199-72100)                       1O0.0   I3.O             115.7       104.4   t    2.0
Mn 0A312. S09LY OP
--LO:' tr(0Dm Or
3c0U13m5)                     110.0       112.0    113.0            1.2        "0.0        120i
1002ZIM5 (gun M    1)            71.0        73.0      75.7            "5.     4       4.    00.
OF liM  AD14L AS     .           .. 22.0            24.7            45.6       23.5        31.3
'D CA M      -) 1    L211 1" 2     34.0          .        0.0             1.3    l   .6         3.1
tni z102100 -4T   Mo(2 )   51.0                27.0      41.0                       40e         443Z
IMPANT 2O32LT aA73    (in
21065*2)                          U7 it?.0    153.0   118.0             31.5      44.7        433
AC SMT  san  gAT  (PUI or
402532  *13  *U   (1         O
0AX,u                              ..        3.0       75.0              ..       0.3        "A
..                                          31.0      70.0              ..       75.7       45.1
m2L                                ..        33.0       0.0              ..        .0        43.0
6S   To UmC!  DISPOSAL (IT
OF POr.AXION)
t6 ..                                                    ..              ..       4.0        70.1
aw                                 ..           .      1.3               ..      4.0         M.4
".                                                                       .        22.3       32.2
7OL6AIOM  Mn 1ff2C1               000      c           1720.0           441.o  mc4.4         1343.2
POWOATIOU  U R3SIM PrSON             ..      '4"0.0   1430.0            477.1     193.6       75.0
r0MAT20 M   30rTAL MM0
Tom1                            30.         690.0     6O.0            30.1       433.4       197.
fLwM                          190.00      200.0    210.0              ..      233.1       240.2
313hZ.                             ..      3390.0   3750.0              ..    2732.4       10o5.0
AD,02110   m   HSPITAL U3            ..        20.0      20.0            15.3       22.1       17.3
VUU0   12. tF   C5
A 1R SIZE Of ROUOIBOLD
TOTAL                             5.7         5.9        ..              ..        5.3        4.7
036                                ..          ..        ..              ..        5.2         .
3.'IAZ                             ..          ..        ..             ..         5.6        S.1
AYUAGE ZDI   OF P23103 M  WON
TOAL                               ..         2.2        ..             ..         9.         1. 1
G&W                               2.0         1.9        ..              ..        1.6         1.2
L                                  ..          ..        ..             ..         2.5         1.2
&=$S 20  .ZCTKICM   (in0
0r DI3LLIEOS5)
orI161.                          29.0       640.0      57.0                      50.0        66.0
RO16L                             2.0         5.         ..             ..        17.3



-26 -                                              AXNEX I
-  TABLE 3A                                       Page  2  of  6
TURL;  -SOCIAL IXDICAIORS DATA SHELT
QRFETERC! GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- M0S. RZC'NT_ ST?I1!AE!) "a
SALE        SAME     NEr  GNECIR
WOST RECENT     CORGRAPIC    LNCOW!E       14CO!E
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP Ia
EDUCATION
,'STED ENROIL tENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                75.0        109.0     104.0           105.7       10'.5       101.7
MALE                 90.0        124.0     114.0           107.1      108.6        110.0
FtMALE               58.0        94.0       94.0           104.5       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  14.0        21.0      29.0            65.9        33.5        51.2
MALE                 20.0        39.0       39.0            70.3       38.4         56.4
FEMALE                8.0       1I.0        19.0            62.2       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z of SKC0(MARY)  18.0         14.0      15.0            20.4        11.5        16.3
WPIL-TEAC'R RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0         38.0      34.0            26.7        35.8        27.1
SZCRIAZT                          19.0         28.0      27.0              ..       22.9         25.3
AIILT LIERACY LUTE (PZNT)           36.0         55.5/k    60.0              ..        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGUR CARS PE TROUSAND
POULATIVA                          2.0          4.0      11.4           105.5        13.5        53.4
&rnDIO LCEIVMs PL TEOUSARD
POPULATION                        49.0         *9.0     105.0           233.7      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS  M  TROISAIID
POPULATION                          ..          3.0      12.0           14.0       38.3        W2.6
NESPAP   (DAIL  GEEAL
IRREST') CIRCULATION PR
IWOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0           ..        ..              ..       40.0         7t.3
CIM     I AIUAL AmTNDANC   Q CAIA  1.1            6.7        ..             6.4         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
EOT LABOR FORCE (TUSANDS)    13783.0         13591.0   17052.0
PEIALE  (PERCENt)                 *0.2         37.2      37.3            32.3       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PECN)                78.5         67.7      62.0            25.8       43.5         28.9
DIDSTIY (PERCENT)                 10.5         12.1      14.0            33.1       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION AUT (PERCENT)
TOTAL' 50.1                                      6.3       42.8            37.6        33.5        33.8
MAL                                 5S.7         54.9      53.2            37.0        S8.0        51.3
fINLt                               41.2         33.4      32.1            28.0        16.6        16.3
-IaW6IC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0       1.1             1.0         1.4         1.3
INCOt DISStRI3SUON
RICLWNT OF PRVATE MECON
RECEIVED ay
RI'ST 5 P?VCER? OF bOUSEIOLDS   33.0/h         32.8/1      ..              ..       20.8
IaTcIIS  20 tRC?No or ousaows  61i.07h        60.67r    56.5/u          47.9       52.1         57.6
WU3ES  20 fECERN  oF SOUSEilOLDS    4.27t       2.971     3.67u-          5.0        3.9          3..
LOwVT *0 PRCE?  OF lOuOLDS   io.67T             9.4Z[    i i. 7          15.4        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TART CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POV ElN INCQE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URIAN                               ..          ..      330.0              ..      270.0
RURL                                ..           ..     162.0              ..       183.3
ESTIMATED RELALTIVE POVERTY INCONE
tZVEL (US  PU CAPITA)
UR&IAN                              ..           ..     385.0              ..      282.5        550.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     367.0           436.1      246.9        403.4
ESTI!'ATED POPULATION SEIEO ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IRCOtS LEVEL (PERCE)NT)
URMAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..       20.5
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..              ..       35.3
Not available
Not *or A1b-1.
_zRU                                                 NOTES
/a    Tae *djus*ed'gSop averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric ueana, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries anna the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not aunifors.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, dart for 1960 refer to any year btwarn 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Esrimate, bacvean 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Europe;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /a  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita, 1976);  /f  1955-60;  /&  1965-70;  /h  1963;   /i  1967; /4  1962;  /k  Six years and above;
I  1968;  /2  1973.
Kost Recatu Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
. February 1980



-         -~~27-
ANNqEX I
.irimC .CU. InCM                                                         Page   3  of   6
~~j,A X.sm   1. ia.e   ua. loo m      wn.. imoodZ "moitioo  Ood                byetettle -inS  Uti05  itl.4 - .         dom-Issth  te   Th. "eito  hi -sn."
aefii oigo,h   "7.f. et 1eat5.6i1..L. -ihs*m  easim oota  soVIet ftj.r dLttOtUsee   et-e -. rit..
it  eieoe 50'a  e.7-.o to' oss  I.dlais  "'. ,o9t.taeu .   -ooitOj  -o,~ ... lo                    too.. *O,o   %I-.0 of the taset, h  the met1. lth
sin51F Ie *-o  -oop        . tos.a Or go.. eeP -arW... of "1 ta.....t  Ceatt  O,5. Oil Lpswtso   -  Of fi,tor    At o.eo  to intr ood  oo,to
U.  *esL, htaae am. L-o  bltst.itt.at  sW P-tyaet  tr  LOttr  -stte  *e-el at. polassa.sht5             Irt. se.elotssta    r to aOtem  -Ie-,
th=e     P P4S - ibise  .et.p   in.to7nre-ntttors  mn  te IdoloeiO.rt  0tvl.blt,o   ej   d  .soxato    a,.s athOoefI
- ist  oeem  *stLoso of                   U"islsa   te   m  Im-erile  g..'e.st..  of theIr aope.soe- popoMttsss. boost  desposel oft ISoOko
of WpOOONVLU  tsi ste, pouest., morad en attete  SW""m or to                   tU.  .U-imUi  OM diises..J oath -  ettent teestemt, et  om  so-et
it. tu.il.                                                                      a" Ooots-It. kw                 4"t-t oooilm  or U. em  of pit pot.te  enOsst
)s P p- e.   S e oitloCSIOto. st mesme Ooftft WI...           M:Mftel   so                sai.aiesee             o   e   atsmmse
i~,  a~.   n    omm Ls  seten OA %5.lA 1hoo Alt.  (1976-T8                           I R M tot   . senItat  4s.4"tt  icesi     rWOLOI4paLLo
197 en,. sI'm.mso,eat i_ O                                                                        rses    Iplt dl,OrOsti,  17mdO-       tpmeo         i
ioesleni.Ie.Peiea :.A.    _   oOLo o      fteisse   oe-   ns,e vooOOP.psi.ate MLo torl ..lDi              _tltal se-s         dOd e .rsi Peslttm(oa.
ths.ts.a,otv  a. aai  Wme a  g-                                                   Pti..m    , ~     5  ieesl sanes                --to,is.t C  eo   thoIa-  esst
PDOWjlAlm Anl VTAL itTAlTrTc:                                                       tssh -imet  presteam Wie.pm.l.l  Ooeslseal as-  se mm IsIem   ftrol
eo.  s.,ta.sSta,lile.   he of AUl t. iNC, 1915, ad                                amao.. *me..  isOleot healte en oodasa a-mas  ml psemeej, Ots
1977 date.,                                                 hi~~~~~~~~~~% a Onatstm  (tot by a Nmitol esasst.t mdroo, siho1tte  eta.) mba otto
Was  omatieSleesst  t ttal)- tUa of sote  to taSsI Ps,l.tIss;             so-oitmat om       .u,sda . en woe-as. a UtAtos  rse   of OOI-ssI taitS-114
ittttmt.etsttles  t sts. ee..m  efoest odwomhILLIF of do.            6"tlMAERhi!2ien    Totalb-ns  of modOsommi S. -  diAmeopss tim
-mg oodot.oa; 1960, 197, end 1970, am.                                           Wmititii              W I,U   e~
P.Mi.ti          - O.,mt Powlotloo Wometmes en 155.4 - 
IWoP      306-luI   Wi a". en sto end -, me1itya" e   fteouaitt              A-..  mls.. Iof    sel O  eem           mnl)-t-o   eme    ae 
wso.pojeet" e.  _a . To, met.L.t1 5e50 .Me't.  of tU-e                     A  emadsese.                                                             OMa,wa Iietnl e    to    asst ee
I .. U      C55L.  1.1? sepmase.? a .45bth as-aOm   itah doootere              tastr mis met. A W~ia  - lWS-aW en O,       wt h.. &lmod aS the
* ,tt  aomen leesi oo co-1. Lit. eepmuas  oaUtis15  St                      bodama  to etotiudosl PmP-ee
7-.Kw n..   U. wintse.y to,  twalit Uet elmo m-e thre ptests                 easet sho  et -. e =sm. teS-l  ,a,  s PasL  aeI m
mI.e alseis  penee   ba ge to?U the. O-nl-A -  ef 1boe              "mpmotieei.  iee.i.afln  -1s.6 od-powooot steWU.os en  oo gptod Diet
ftooloh-AiLow of .rk"Itr  W                                      f         .sa easa%tty trotde-am  s.1w.as -teg. a
L  o a steOtnmU_A  pe.1tuott  maeisi  w-W i                               SO.& im,e   esel  nLIams  -Pow"t.el..
O~ tb. vinis s.OVat tooab aath wts, en aim U. fi.
st.U .etnth   nsa"Ma. ULU U, maloood mit etm  te-U1Laet
a-LI"s to U.e "wiftot lomb Wt mut set  aeisstm  3e05,
4taSlb  aim       toosU  ino  MM.tsi ad .t    .o memmtSm.eeoftootI.Litassd-f  .LIk.  WOOU                              lokoo egeeInM-  ato  (aspea-* wtm
Ute. o   sae U   PL-oth ,-sr mo    n  nam   t  mseU  et le                       en       - paseioes  Ume.ii ofise  eatisee. "ood A-U              te
155 eatisem melat      is  -med - U. vmw -1o  am"ew vwQm*Am                 matsmosl -tuse  e-olM  oor mmod im mmWe same. oo                     .
11, O lees Is.m ed-    em  sms  atooetsa  mbst o.-
ty    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ 7esa     oa.Ml en- 'tenoo"    cop- Omas bIa                         .ha .  5 s7
pepelistam S. 00     etiense   (Up Ooftwm) Ut                       st    eet.  tIslatM                    pp.." 1-aS  pA.    ati.a
%miT     o"'                                                 W        someml~~~~~~~~~~~10.   o-sUm.).W S ti-e. It-LUM  fttviswt)  ftr po"tl.
U    A.-in. sse      U" lem -l.loft -   .-    f. Ometeni-.                       -oLI of 12 to 17 poat o  ft.m; ee g .sne   e  M-..t
1e..isi~eetoe  mos. (eeot) - cu"bro  (0-it V-),* mkj,p9ea.l                pssetiom   mna.)e1 jsseeat i=     f od-) -                aojouat."     sea
ood tt..  [W?-s. en             boees) -    men mi6oo Ud' laeitaa,ateaaJ. eeasr P-1enO mUhl  sPeISe' 1.o"onimtky - so
ppsss;1,60. illS. en 1977 en..                                               aspee- of Ut ssmdo, hstwthetlm.
C)zs a,mtsoti               .,.I)nos   . AOOOl ashein mm  or Wol, ma         m..et,eto-  rm7e  o me     saiemu  enOLlhe t
~~  ~~~           .~~~~    e~~n  I-i?w        wo~e    b                   1poamy ng                   5it  1   om    t           e aste-m
pepea1Fle.  2o 90t5  ,oi.e    970-7.                                             Ad;              pti           - ta%esae  1oftl   (mbl.    im g  WI%.) Mi
er." sknb ft-  Ammal. lIe  htAbth  Wa                     thd-apoO    1 tal sdhalt &pep.USioi  ospd 15 pm-. WA   -i
7- poi.Lotsoo;       en 1977 a..
Mt. zn       I- A-. amoes p- i.-en  Of  4.a..s
Sm"Id'ntsitl1977 g- A.-        . -horeOI".S"-          ii b-           I N            W.- ,as osr   n boordo ooen.s- m
1915, en 1975.                                                       enhes~~OI  rod-,St. ak.smeiptt  pe- emat nof spltte.;o enO    i  m."t.   e
....PAWten..mo. mofm   t eim   iai                                        Oronfet doa U. eM =a~e   -W mat he .e,"I. alm  .sst                lslee
Pea7saqsE                                               ormeaofmse       -Fmne   st meeh  iIoan5(    taOdoen e..'tis) - IT esaaos  for Woboaot he .n-ml
O.O          Ad   oo  L.  tett N" gm*.       O) -Zen   Lt.Poe essat.                                rso"afttmoesof,TV ontse  es L.         seal ohssea
OOOOO.  WOasen   oress Or s,s oo tist~ so  ditis e  ees.ls - mass                sIf I5t50 tpoo " I-- ,    tml.e4s   i.im    ocre-ssao    n  ea
t"oo to in sei.  tthO prheSe pa.. mles.. -                                       mi5...A..5--b.d-t._~o    .
seset  eqetealse a-tm -of t.so4  Oftl.Os  "o,)alb"  is  ..fia paLottTtlLs-oof.ins      nsly  et.pa.,  sa                                            se
pm  ft   Agiol  sple  osrt               s-t PehatW,"..t  te WThhiuiof -b  -11iti.soassa    enasotes   otode,  U                                  odtit,a.
1. a..,en s1oeas easdmet wIate _".00s.mm   e,se.                                 ,eri.   mta.e    ot,Fh
W55se Othmas  hi -A -di5 -;In WsalsOei0 _5tr    e.,                                       eatOOso,tse.asta..sr  forst.   enea   en.w
mae-t7e  heelsl. -Moasor .softea o.ti- tm.*.tao, o. he - seasas,                                                              ..lObod.. t toal tast o,.
.*-e. -d 5asehOo tan. ot, pealtis owlo alto.-Ua-1tPes too t O O) - oo                           t'A.     -ts.  sfit.omaeaa, esea                      n
meos tlo tsoshd istee) V.-I,-             - L  ithto.b"-.1iieit.oaatse.  en-1 we,  r- poms  or total. asOr   Ocaos.                              W
U.oIt   oottyot or ' AOe term- pW.1.ayUVPOi*te meat a  pot-              satEsstie  o   (arSon) - tota  540 s.ift fete-. moOtUwpS-e o
sUet. oty api  ttots,S -Sott ~rg- ...         e   e  t  nteda .. "I                   LI tess e  oe. or   a  totaJi     ass..e    .m.atrts   sp.
marn  end  Set.L ot.is, ot ino.I    dc 55        L.45  la555 W roostst          memorr tehels-. of  t         Le.pasameenieee ass tresS.  0 teaU sanoo
-o3 Seat  mam   p-et.a  a  * aeee-trta    i.  opes  i  e                       Ose Ne.seo    it  - tsta org             Ofeltt e1:.g   i en6   nmct
a. ta  hasSoS1.5te-e  tH. iaao, roe-a to ego jemp  t il-he-vine-
hoe op ls r       .t f-ct r.1s515  -.04 eel,   bysa  seXis ot- f-Oot505oL  o    .'o.PVI.i.                                     1 
45,0L4 tie  Za.;. Wo"i. Ps sso    toe me ph-.r    b 4                      1mmP---%.  i.iUotOlw'LLoo                        -4-tf"
*                Coat, (55.To-s t-.   -eait asL-     to-e..75 6. Latas o.ecs      %   oo.tasse      Onttetoo0lPttet  -se(sO1  atss sS      mae   in..
ose  oth. ?imI  e,,I.Csao   otl  g   m;ttmtSit                                  poi.mt,  soSf  St pe.-P.'r i5.s.o.   poi.s,  np,rs S 
t.    mtto  en    -ra   sn.             L,etoia                                ofenfia
ma r.  Aw.t    U
heors ft.st tp.,  ar-e-re.?%5t4  - l.ao-I ."ho          01  ei or             ustao.o..s 0, tetlOs Pod soL   s-.me au4 i --ML" eweOo rn q.)-  ee S.d es-a
.&F, OtM,  -.S4.   I e.s    tret.io setee  atr oorl..  mlreta.t  De                              Ofma    ts.m    tis   -try. aito  l Ase   Js-1-oa  te-  the --aI es
8Wm.,  .sobos en 5.  -14-1te  .0 tOs  .101. i.ths
O---t  m   Ce.U O.cral -_e  e ,obs.a. o.Os  mai  tool,
that thof..fes-osc  too a...iAa do-Ls ho. to   .  Ope s1 sOmoso ma                                                                     fet .; . otagmoo
tbOsi...prt of too Zo  A. toe~odoe  toe tens'  se.tO., sead.                                           Use.. L.mite.L asde Pteesiame lo,et-eme
February 1980



- 28 -
Tur10Y - 118o9IC LLV1L.0MW  WAI0 SHUT-
P..4 of e
11 si- !tE! F r  'Ai0 ' ' d C-~~~~~Sh- f
A.  S827. ACC42fTS(I        M OllIlo,. 1978 2,14..)
I. 4,. de  Uts  proa dt                        720.3   874.1    1036.1    lin.1    1212.7   1230.         1W40.3   Lsi4.i    1405.2    1          I3. U 191.3  9.7        3.7       4.5    130.0
2.  Gi.. I-ro        f r_  o4.0                           3.8      4.2 1    _0.1        0.0     -J         .228      -331.0    -37.8     -t.1    -8t.           -         -                   0.0
3.  Cro d-*tlo L<-                                .3    979.9    1039.9    1142.0   1212.7    13. 7   1226.         1r.       37. 5    1tS.5    UU12.7         9.8        3.4       4.2    100.0
4. Loot  (0 o ml)                               42.7     4.3       50.6      26.4      67.2       U.*       8.8      IM.l    139.3    IS5.0        250.9        5.8      15.4       L.a       5.5
5. 7             Vo2    US (0.0                          93.9     14.4      197.4     118.8     103.1      11.9      131.3    139.1    143.3       179.9       8,9        3.9       4. 0       .d
9.  100.1t                                     138.8    1.1        W.8      271.2     248.9     2.3t       39.5 23     2.4     2.4       2t3.1     21.2          4        3.-       *.2     20.5
7 . c.ptLn                                     190.4    n3.7       4.       979.4    L015.9    1121.9    7_U1.           U"..    11.    123.5    247.8         7.8       0.        3.7      83.8
8. 2~o...t10..oto~.229.9    102.4                                 167.7     197.7     19.8      26M.0     21S.9      210.1     234.8    301.1      43.5        5.3       4.3        7.4      14.2
9. LotIon.2 0.01,80                            143.3    191.3    214.2      213.0    212U       231.2     229.2    237.8   237.7    321.7          405.0       S.1       9.1        7.4      17.5
b. OUCU                                                                                          10T19 1r4.  ) t
1. A.,Io.,10000                                 29.9    27.9       29.5      28.1      27.0      29          .7      29.2       3.9       29.0      24.2
2.  1Indgtr7                                    27.2    24.5       24.1      24.1      27.7      27.5      27.4       27.       I.2       25.4      31.0
3. L04th                                        43.2     45.       44.4      47.8      95.4      43.7      45.9      4t.e      4.9        4.9       49.8
C. F2ICI(4  (19I7  . 1LO)
1.  Oopor : yrlOoo                              43.7    93.        19.0      95.5     IO.0    1003.       110.1      2.3      129.S     141.t      119.9
2.  1wor1 prloo.                                47.7    9l.8       99.2      19.6     26.0      3.25.4    147.9     179.8    181.8       313.1     in1.
3. T, to ot t2.                                 92l.4     103.2    9.7       99t.4    100.0        .1      744       71.3       70.1      47.35     91.
4.  2.02 detllto,                               20.2     33.7      50.2      73.4     100.0     140.0    240.0      42.0      54.8       71.0    1444.2
5.     .... .. oh.ngc  W.t. (1i.00 . TL)        11.0    14.2       14.4      18.0      24.3
D. PUSLIC ki LUICi                                             ftrrst et CIU7
1.  Oont,.l L00000flt rn,8ooo                   22.9    20.9       23.1      24.2      24.2
2. C n2t.1 l 0overt ooo,,.dlto,.                24.9    22.0       23.7      27.9      78.5
3. Fbli  ..02- d fl1lc -                         .       2.1       9.1       9.0        -
190.                                                                             190      175    1977  197d
4. 04182(04  102110424                                                          F. LA&* FM=
12(L4                                            3.0               C1l121. l3l              b., for0- (-)ol)li.)               13.4      1.7      2        19.2
.o. t olotlOlCI                                  2.4-                             U_L e_t  _d ._erloy_.o  (7.   GOP)   21.0    12.3               13.1     13.5
.  de.tlo  -in1  rot.                           14.9                             C.il1* 1 y.ont 1.111100)                       13.1     24.7    24.0      (4.7
4 1  i.   O      ..29  M.                       13.9                               of b104h (%7
L._nt/GDP                                       20.2
Deport/GUF                                      11.4                             Ag.lto..rl                                    47.2      9.15    42.4     61.3
l.tr7120                                      13.3    14.9      24.3      4.7
001000                                        19.b    20.6    22.1       22.0
1    0 rt.l .y  not odd up bo,, .. oI   -IL.s e. o.0.
2)  90,000108 tequtre_nt of oncr,0    oo ,               _._.  tb. pr_ torp,1.. ad  04., o.bli  .th-riti-o.
3)t F., 97077  -0,204.
204,0.0 196



- 29 -
1 Actual                         ov   a                                                             .l Proleoted
L970      1973        1973      1977       17 1                   1980       1981       1982       1982      1984       1985        1990
A.  S5140Y OF 3LANC6   0P POAYISHS
1.  Exper, of good. and NF8                            754       1799       2152       2556       3108       3200       4050        4812      5839       6706       7771       8971      17787
2.  Ioport of good. ad NFS                           -1096      -2391      .5219      -6436      -5859       -5550     -7000      -8140      -9239    -1305    -11485    -12751    -22229
3.  R.source balenc.                                 - 342      - 592      -3067      -3880      -1953      -2350      -2950       -3324     _3400      -3600      -3714      -3781      -4442
4.  Interest (net) V/                               --  47      -  59      - 124      - 570      - 680       - 900      -1200      -1350      -1406      -1453     -1597      -1749      -2294
S.  Profite                                          -33        -35           36      - 116      -  60       -  50     -  60         -80       -103       -108      -114       -120       -150
6.  Workers' rnmtttsnc-.                               273       1183       1312        982        983        1700      2180        2500       2700       2916      3149       3401       4998
7.  Net f-ctor  Wmrnice tnfo_                          193       1089       1152       366        243          750       840       1070       1191       1355       1438       1532       2554
8.  Tronsfer-                                           91         18         23         12         -           -           -         -          -          -         -          -          -
9.  Currant .e..cot blonce                           -  58        515      '1892      -3572     -1710       -1600      -2110      -2254      -2209      -2245      -2276      -2249      -1888
10.  Private foreign capital                             92         77        251        169        147        200        200         240        268        302       342        378        660
11   Public   diu  & long-tsr.  (1LLT)(gross) 2/        271        376        386        502       530        1020       1230        1650       2653      2814        3440      3281       4640
12.  AmortltiQon of public H6LT 1/ 21                 - 146      .  72      - 117     _ 214      - 380       - 550      - 900       -1200     -1606      -2261      -2544      -2710      -3212
13.  Public M4LT (Net                                   125        304        269        288        150        470         330        450      1047         552       896        371       1428
14.  Short-term  (net) 3/                                66      -235        1159       1807      1097         335         230       -130      -172       -123        -94        -58         -
15.  Copital not itcluded nismoher  !4/               -  39         67      - 204        742       464         521        1500       1844      1404        1682      1318       1558        169
16.  Ch-nge inrm_roe               .  .- . locrese)   - 186      - 728        417        566     - 148           74       -150       -150      -338       -168       -186       -200       -369
B. M&LT LOAN COMMITMfENTS 5                                506        547        755       1205       1407        2504
Public Sentor                                           487        491        649       1105       1307       2404
1.  Bank group                                          44        135        158        144       358         371
2   Other multil.ter-l                                1172        100         40          6         54        1jt3
3.  G--orete:  narbot enomfe.                         .54         718        197       282        288        1320
4   Gi-o-rnuLe ;  centr-lly planned economies          114          3          3        150        204          90
5   Soppiters                                           47          4         79       260         123
6.  Financial  noscitotion                              -          32        172        263       281
7.  Other                                               -          -          -
Pni-Lto coettr                                           19         56        106        100        100         100
C. AVERAGi TiRMS 0 4 M4LT LON COMMITMENTS S/
1.  iantnlenect (1)                                   37 4       39 2       15 6      11.4       14 2         14.2
2   Internet       (X)                                 3.6        4.7        7.2        7.6        7.2          7 0
3.  lleturty       lycare)                            18.8       25.7       13.5       11.6      10.8         11.5
4.  Gra e           (yeera)                            4.6        7.1        3.8        4.2        3.1          4.9
L/  Nst of debt relif.
2/  Up to end including 1978 th.be  fitgore  ore gonernet estit.e,   ifc  Ox. not CeGmttent Witbh Iok DHS date.
3/   Mtiny -cono.rtible Turkish lica deposits, _coeptanc credits, co-sccial and oil -cr.a.a, boker-  createiit., .e.rse .nt  rdite, oceodrafte, and Dceed-er Bank sthee  deposit.
4/  Including errors cod o te-iona up to 1979; for projected yer. it includes gepfill, ned private M4i borroingT  on e net busla.
y/ Public and publicly gonrunteed meternol debt only.
Fobruory 1980



-30-
TURKEY   ETERNAL DEBT AID CREDITW1RTI7NESS                             ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                      Provisional
1970        1973        1975        1976         1977       1978              1979
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Tern (M and LT)(Diebursed)  1/              1854        2869        3176         3519        4326       6100             10956
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)  1/                                     42         115          160         253         479        557               650
3.   Short Term  2/                                                        .         279        1398         3441        6600       7469              3770
4.   Total Outstanding Diabursed Debt                                   1896        3263        4734         7313       11405      14126             15376
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                     840        1101        1641         2393        2804       3500              3800
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                            -47         -59        -150        -300         -570       -710              -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)  -                   -i46         -72        -117         -119        -214       -380              -550
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                        -193        -131        -267        -419         -784      -1090             -1480
C. DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                             18.8         4.4         7.7         11.2        22.2       26.7              30.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                           15.0        15.7        13.1         17.9        23.9       28.3              28.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                     7.2         7.8         9.1         7.6          6.1        6.0               6.9
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                          3.2        14.9        12.2         10.8         8.3        7.7               7.7
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                     1978                                   1979-/
(Million US Dollars)                                      (Amount)  (As % of Total)              (iAount)  (As 2. of Total)
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                    6657           47.1                   11606           75.5
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                         6100          43.2                    10956           71.3
(i)  Bank Group                                                     836            5.9
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                             612           4.3
(iii)  Governments                                                   3900           27.6
(iv)  Suppliers                                                      170            1.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                         545            3.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                           35            0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                 557            3.9                     650            4.2
2.  Short Term                                                                 7469           52.9                    3770           24.5
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                             2860          20.2
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                 1675           11.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                             862            6.1
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts              924            6.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                  363            2.6
(vi)  LMF                                                            622            4.4
(vii)  Other                                                           163           1.2
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                          14126          100.0                    15376         100.0
1/ Bank DRS data.
2/ Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/  At market prices.                                                                                                        i ebruary 1980
6/ Bank sttff e-timate.
EMENA CPIIA



-31-                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
Economic Policy Package
On January 25, the Government announced,through several inter-
locking decrees, a rather comprehensive economic policy package. It is
not only a strong stabilization program, but also one that lays the foun-
dation for some structural economic changes and desirable modifications
in medium-term economic policies. The detailed decrees are being trans-
lated. Meanwhile based on extensive explanations of what they contain,
the principal elements are summarized below.
Exchange Rate Regime
(a)      The Turkish Lira, whose parity value was TL35 = US$1.00 except
for several commodities that had a premium fixed at TL47 = US$1.00, has
been devalued by nearly 100 percent to TL70 = US$1.00. A lower multiple
rate of TL55 - US$1.00, now applies only to the import of fertilizers,
insecticides and inputs for both.
(b)      In future, cross rates will be adjusted automatically by the
Central Bank. The principle is also established that so will the ex-
change rate vis a vis the US$ (after discussion with a new Money and
Credit Committee (para. q below)), generally determined by the differen-
tial rate of inflation in Turkey and its trading partner having the
weakest currency.
(c)      The temporary 20 percent stamp duty on imports is reduced to
1 percent, thus linking exports and imports directly to the exchange
rate.
(d)      The difference between TL earned from exports of key agricultural
commodities and the prices fixed on a weight basis by the Government as
those which provide sufficient incentives to the producers, are to be chan-
nelled into a Price Stabilization Fund now with the Central Bank. From this
Fund, the Government will cover subsidies on fertilizers, provide export
credits etc. to exporters and cover export risk insurance until institu-
tional facilities in that regard are approved by Parliament.
Export/Foreign Investment Incentives
(e)      Except for commodities covered by agriculture support prices, for-
eign exchange earned in exports totalling less than $50,000 can be retained
abroad by the exporters. Over that, the exporter is allowed to retain 50
percent of export earnings to be applied towards the import of his inputs,
provided he advises his bank handling the transaction within 6 months of
export of his intention to do so.



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
(f)      Commercial banks are now allowed to maintain accounts in which
they will retain 80 percent of export earnings or worker remittances made
by their clients (20 percent goes to the Central Bank). Once the importers
get clearance from the technical ministry concerned for the import of com-
modities on the Restricted List, they get foreign exchange from these banks,
out of such accounts, instead of from the Central Bank. This is a major
structural change for liberalizing the export and import licensing regime.
(g)      From the 50 percent legal reserve placed by commercial banks with
the Central Bank, the commercial banks can provide export credits, term
credits and working capital to exporters, as well as finance export invest-
ment proposals, at an interest rate of 11 percent only, with the discount
rate of the Central Bank being 8 percent.
(h)      Investments up to $50 million, in which foreign investors must
have a minimum investment of $2 million and no more than a 49 percent share,
are to be automatically approved by a new department created in the Prime
Minister's office (para. r). Those over $50 million, will be reviewed on
merit by that Office. Investments involving IFC or Islamic Bank have no
limit on size or field of investment and will be automatically approved,
provided the investor holds no more than 49 percent. Even this ceiling
is not applicable to investments made by Arab OPEC countries, or for hotels
with more than 400 beds, where 100 percent foreign ownership can be allowed.
The repatriation of the sale of an investor's equity is also guaranteed,
as IFC had been insisting.
(i)      To encourage oil exploration/investments by foreign oil companies,
the well-head price of oil is further increased over the sizeable increase
made in April 1979.  For oil found or produced by such companies after Jan-
uary 1, 1980, they can export 35 percent of oil produced, as their share of
the profits.
(j)      To resolve the problem of unguaranteed trade credit arrears of about
$1.9 billion, foreign creditors must opt within 90 days between: (i) consoli-
dation in US$, with repayment over 10 years including 4 years grace, with
7 percent interest at the TL parity on January 25, 1980, or (ii) consolidate
in TL with smaller amounts repaid in 18 months and larger ones with 24 to
30 months. Such TL amounts can be used by them to invest in Turkey, within
the liberalized investment rules mentioned above.
SEE Reforms
(k)      Substantial increases in prices of SEE products such as petroleum,
cement, steel, sugar, coal, lignite and printing paper, as also in tariffs
of service SEEs like railways, Soil Products Office and Maritime Bank (which
collectively accounted for nearly 50 percent of budgetary deficits) have



- 33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
been announced, to add about TL350 billion to 1980 gross revenues. In this
the average tariff for bulk power has been increased from about 120 krs/kwh
to an average of 280 krs/kwh.
(1)      So far, the prices of several SEE products/services were arbitrarily
constrained and could be increased only by Cabinet approval, since they were
placed on "a list of basic items". All goods and services have now been re-
moved from this "basic list", except for fertilizer, coal/lignite, the cargo
tariffs of Railways, Maritime Bank and Turkish Cargo Lines, and electricity
rates only for ferro chrome and aluminium production. In other words, the
Board of Directors of the SEEs concerned will now set their own prices depend-
ing on market forces, so as to generate enough not only to cover their oper-
ating deficits, but cash for their investment programs. Through the price
mechanism and improved management and efficiency in the SEEs themselves,
the SEEs will have to meet all of this. Their operating deficits will no
longer be met from the Budget. While their investment projects would in
future be reviewed by the SPO from the viewpoint of whether they fall within
the Plan objectives and are viable proposals, such projects will no longer
be financed from the Budget. Nor will SEEs have any access to Central Bank
borrowings, except seasonal credits for some of them. This is a major mile-
stone in Turkish economic policy, which has been accomplished by decree under
the existing SEE law, and does not require parliamentary approval.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
(m)      Since continuing increases in SEE prices could price them out of
the international market, revenues are instead to be augmented through a
"significant tax package" being tabled to the Parliament soon. After study,
new simple indirect taxes, like value added taxes, are proposed to be in-
troduced in future, along with others, to raise resources on a continuing
basis. This is another major shift in Turkish economic policy, since pro-
posals for new taxes have rarely been proposed to the Parliament, nor has
the Parliament passed any tax package for the last 8 years.
(n)      All lending rates have been increased by 2 percent over those
prevailing before January 25, 1980. In addition, interest rates for
medium-term credits of beyond 5 years no longer have any ceiling and
can be negotiated between the borrower and the banks concerned. This
freeing of interest rates on loans beyond 5 years, is a major step to-
wards gradually reducing the negativeness of the interest rate structure
in Turkey.
(o)      As part of the Government's objective to bring down inflation
in 1980 to about 50 percent, and then continue to exercise a downward
pressure on inflationary growth, legislation is being introduced in
Parliament to contain wage increases in public and private sectors by
allowing automatic rate adjustments of only half the rate of inflation
in a given year, if the overall rate exceeds 40 percent.



- 34 _                 ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Administrative Arrangements
(p)      A small Coordination Committee under the Undersecretary in
the Prime Ministry and having the Undersecretaries of SPO, Industry,
Energy and Treasury, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Head of
the Economic Department of SPO, will expedite formulation and implementation
of economic policies, trade regimes and the coordination of external aid.
(q)     A new Money and Credit Committee, again under the Undersecretary
in the Prime Ministry, with the Undersecretaries of SPO, Treasury and Com-
merce as well as the Governor of the Central Bank, the Head of the Economic
Department of SPO and the Head of Internal Revenue's Economic Department,
are to coordinate monetary and credit developments, solve financial bottle-
necks, decide on pricing policies and quickly approve adjustments in cross
rates and exchange rates.
(r)      A new private Foreign Investment Department has been created under
the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It alone will review
and approve applications of foreign investors for investments in Turkey.
(s)     An Incentives/Implementation Department has also been established
under the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It will not
only develop and deal with all export promotion incentives, measures and
institutions in order to promote export and export oriented investments,
but will also continuously review the ongoing investments in the country
from the point of view of establishing which of them should be stopped,
deferred or processed quickly, besides reviewing and proposing general
investment incentives for investments considered desirable in the Turkish
context.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of S
TUKL Y: kev E         -lent of  -k'   -in  adMediTer              verdy Efforts
Poltoxes and fdcusleee                     ]
Mati Issues                        197fl79 Trends                                   -'eoaoroa op to January 19bo                                          for the lutree                                                Expected Impact
h.   Balance of Payments        Extreet a/c deft  it -Ea 53.6 b. in '77,              Adx.ittororseos'renro provent increase to
$1.8 b. in '78 and '79.                               deficit beyond '78 boo1.
a.  ixcoSage Rate Policy       Overoofuaaiox and ieadequate djust-eets                Adopti-o in June '7  of a       irea  otly  xc_bnge  atae  N Frequest and almtst autematic adjusteent by the           Strengttee balooce ef paymey ts; encourage  exports
encourened imports and capital - e     iinenoi        to help slleoiate situotlox. wax followed op to         ' Central Bun, iecodosotat_on with a see Honey                and corkers' reeictaoces1  stimulate less capital
intestmeets; discouraged eeporta.                    eJa. '80 hy a farther drascit  dovelootton fioieg           and Bneking Coordtnaciom Coeaitcss, ef the                  intens.ee Invesiceots.
rate of 0171 = $1, except for feetili-er ond            aechnoe race to cover the diffenetita  itnflstioo
iosectic-do isporEL.                                      In Turey and of her  aein trading partner.
b.  Esperts                    Agriroltural exports still domixate;  export           Ikasore s talkn in '7H179 booted exports by 157. p0   lcaps to forthen eiief  cxpore pro"cdues" ;                      ContEnoed export frovth by at least Id. ie Irea  te
orieotetiox is gradually inercating in thx            ic real term. in  71 and '79.  Roof tottic ecrhoxlc        ceotew by Uxt. '80, oi the  efficacy of the ixterl          I bntwese  '81  and '83.  Aettoes s ld cntrtboe  to
fedostriel seotor.  cH_ever, ooebersome eoport    rate shoalo help maintain grooch trend.  Pornisal-0-         I arrIuelenets for export risk inesrnce  od priority         tnccease of no-traditi-nai exports, inpv v          pa e ity
restrictions sod licensing proredores and more    to soporters to retoix 507. nl export earnings for           | access to eredits to cxporlsrs, as well as of              utiliaionttx  and  necreasseemployment.     roec 
luorativec domestic macken discooraged cxports.       ieport neveds bilped stimoulteoepnorts.  ieocooe  in   lixati tutixnal nrrangnexets to further denelop
flay '79 and duo. '8d have redored Procedoea] dolnYo    c raditional aed son-traditional enporis.  Inrentises
dras-ticlly; irteris orrones           -inta hstalblished  E and pricrity for export ortented investmests in
tc provids export risk losursoreocoorage                  prinote sector.  Study oi protetion to he initiated
as arlI as corn and xorhtog capital oredits co            it April '80.
expor ters.
E. teermal Debt                .obstantial arcon  lotion of shxrt-tet-  indebt-      Goruoaneed bilateral debis ceschedolcd up to Jde         I Forth-er rosthedling oneotended terms of goarsnteed         Gradual restoration of credittorthin-ss, to mainteio
cdnese i        -pocsoaud inordinately leady bnrd-e,  '79:  1Md Standby  Arrarg-eent in July '79;  bs-           biltatcral debt, coetainment of  boort-t.sm  debts over    viable growth lnd          i   tbility.
it the medium-tern. on  balance of paycents;          .e.cial bank debts cf 5429 o. reschedxled snd            jmdium-tern  to no earelthan ourrent level of about
short-term debt went up in '78 by anothor 52 b.    frthr-er  hsdxlixE  of S2.46 b. negotnated.                   $2.8 b., -scoring of oex es-dits on as cx. nas.xsioI
becense Torkey borrowed net shoIt-tcre, tnd           Jan. 'd80 coo,iric package oi-ncded reasohle              teens as possihic,  nd rempletin  hy Ort. '80 of en
valoatioe xdjustment of old dobt, doe to 3            a         -teroatro prnposuls rn nettLx aboot 51.9 b. cf   ongoing stody co furthar improve ond rofixe this
slipping agaist Eu .ro-correncies.                       garucx--e-d exp-rt cedilt.                             -eter-tl1 debt policy.
b.  Besestic Poiiiesi
a.  fiatism                le    .....an encouraged x.on..ption, discouraged savings    iffort to rottenl ytli sector defit ic  and         Etch tIc objeotire of reducieg the rats of gratwth          Gradnal redoction in ioflation in
and eroded po-eetial  benefits fern L-neroenta    Ccntral Bob borroofogs Er '71t79.  bpwxrd                      of inflation in '81:  lieit net new Centrtl iamb            '80.  Siigbt decline is pri-tse consumption and some
stabilieation pclicies.  gudget deficit of            adjustmentof toterett r:tes io Nay '79  followed    j credits to public sector to 1L94 b. in 0Y79/80.                 decline in privato foed dnstexts.
TiL61 b. (4.7%. CDP) and ooerall public seccor        np in dan. '8C eitI' further 2 percentage poixt          I Continue policp of limiting oage increases.  Beviewof
defixit of TL15 b. b.A8.8. GDP) in '78.  Net          locro--es it  dl rates, atd liberaflzation  of the          xehoy'.s nompleted Finaxn.. al Secxto  Sthdy by Bak;
poblic sector b-rrowing from Cenctal Bank             intteresr-   e refime throu.h al-owing borrosers           By mid '80, review censures no encourage
TL63 b. in '78.                                       aro bank  to agree on rates ior deposits bey.o.            increeses in hoasshald savings and deposits en pant
4 ye-ra atd lending heyond 5 ypsrs.                       of neasores toimproveresoaee  mobilizotion/allo-
nation.  Re tructnoing of tex system to =agmens tax
rInceoss to be dose. Eliminotion of deficit
financing of poblit  sector, to be an impmrtant
featxre of 1980 and f        1ture boudets.
b.  Peioe Policies of NiBs E      mxstin resnx. c mobiliation and total               hypt:tixa ioncreases-io prices daring '78179,             fontionu  polioy of encouraging lIEs tof ipros               Streengthen pabli  asctor finaaoces.  Inprove resourc
deficits bane increased.  EDeicit of SEEs 4.1-/       folloed op in Jan. '80 by inreouses of between           pro_dntielty snd  danafexent, and ienerats their             alienation.
GDP is '71.  Underpricing of industrial goods         50 to 300B. in prodocts and s-rntoss of IEEs, ct          rosources to cover their inoettme.t programs.
produced or dittsibated by SEEs, hue res,lted         net T1351 1. in '80; this shxuld help allviatt
in suaktantial losses, met through the budget         tiroation.  lxrnr  nntieccrpt for roal/linits,
and Central bnk boncowingn.  .as -ggran-td            rsilway and shipping  -reigtt  and poser tariffs
inflationand thecononic nnisin.                       foe dluhin..  and frerochronr productioo, SiEs arc
nocotllned to fio their o-n prires depending on
mar-et price-.  Thrnugh peicos and improved             l
efficiency, they ace to cover oil costs and        
gexorate cash fnr 1noestnorts, stere thcir
roliaxce ox the budget and Cettral Bank boreoxio.g
for both purpoaes, lax beee stopped.                    l
e.  Pub1ie Slettr Invest-      An inoestmsnt program, excestive in the lifht          topmost priority ecoorded tnl coipition of oongcig    lestra- it ox new invesmeects in light  of atailable            Sizeable reduxtion in public fined investsee t.
next Prcfram             of tvailable rxsocrces, anod seyfcasin o0 lorfe        projecon ohichs rem tins good returns ei cf mondec      I resources; 011 innestmeants tr be oade sCcordiec to         Stimuiats faster disborsemesis on priority project
proj ects eith lung gescation periot and marogtnal   Iunxestments, and those tha t can one esisting            I at rict criteria nentionedo uxder "N easuces op to          losens.  Posititve effeEt Eon oxtatniog doflation.
retunse, baa incrsased country's debt hburden         productior capacity folly.  New iovestnents,               January  9190" oolumn.  Shoald resoarces PsIl elcort        Promotion of public sect or exports.
and fuelled inflation,                                tailored to avaiflsle sesooroc s, to Is nude masly Y    | nayya o rinse escbmaced ix the re]evant Annoal
on prioritty projecta fxr remoniri infrastructures         Peogeam, thcy swould be xhanneelied to prejeEts having
horttisnexok, or promoetinf exportsand emplopment.        bighest priority according to thlat criteria, the tist
of whioh in to be pronided shortlY to BanI.






- 36 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF.BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                      (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpose                          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Nineteen loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                           533.0   160.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                         13.5               3.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Water Supply             37.0               9.5
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Urban Development                  2.3      0.7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Livestock II                               16.0      0.1
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0              20.0
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                  0.2
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                      46.7               2.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0               0.9
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                   148.0              59.0
1024-TU   1974   DYB                       Industry                          40.0               1.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                      Industry                          65.0               0.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                 75.0              46.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit                54.3               33.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                         70.0               13.8
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                     21.5              16.2
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0              21.4
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                           26.0              23.3
1379-TU   1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0              47.5
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0              22.5
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0              73.5
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0              23.9
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0              94.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Oil Recovery                       2.5               1.0
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0              75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Grain Storage                     85.0              85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0              60.0
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0              65.0
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles           15.0              15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                  6.0
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment            200.0             200.0
Total                                                   2141.5   178.5   1021.8
of which has been repaid                               185.5      6.1
Total now outstanding                                   1956.0   172.4
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                    - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                       1956.0   172.4
Total undisbursed /b                                     815.0      0.8    815.8
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7-   Excluding loans not yet effective.






- 37 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                   -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90   0.47      1.37
.1967     TSKB II       OFC                                   -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                   -    0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50   0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50   0.62      3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00   1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75      -      0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -    0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                            -    0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                   -    0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00      -     10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33   0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60   0.44      4.04
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00      -     10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30     -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00      -     15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60      -     10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50   1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58     -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00     -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                           -    0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                 -    0.10      0.10
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15      -      2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.00   1.40      9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -    1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               31.15   4.00    35.15
1980     TSKB          DFC                                   -    1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories          -    0.56      0.56
Total Gross Commitments                        186.86  21.65   207.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    109.48   2.43   111.91
Total Commitments now held by IFC               77.38  18.22    95.60
Total Undisbursed                               10.84   6.12    16.96



- 38 -                           ANNEX III
Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactcrily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. Tariff increases have been implemented
recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 39 -                           ANNEX III
Page 4 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972.  Effective Date:  January 5, 1973.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The faetening subproject has been completed. All unspent funds
have been reallocated to the village livestock development subproject, which
is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progressing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants, but the
Government is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Both local and
foreign costs have increased substantially over appraisal estimates. Consul-
tant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed reorganization
of the company's electricity, transport and gas services have been completed.
IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially in the recent past, and addi-
tional increases as a result of the Government's January 1980 economic package
should help cover the increased project costs and revitalize the company's
finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways:  US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. closing pate: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been dis-
bursed and procurement action has been or is in the process of being completed
for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since



40 -                           ANNEX III
Page 5 of 9
the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial
targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975.
However, it is hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight
tariffs averaging 70 to 170 percent, which became effective in January 1980,
will improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization
program is making satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational
efficiency, such as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given suffi-
cient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project:  US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is well
advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in January 1980 should enable
the company to meet part of the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have recently resulted in significant improvement of project execution. The
Government's expected continued provision of adequate local funds for this
high priority project, and early arrangements to finalize plans to meet the
substantial foreign exchange gap, are likely to maintain project momentum in
future. The Government is reviewing possible action to overcome remaining
implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



- 41 -                           ANNEX III
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1975. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975.  Effective Date:  January 22, 1976.  C losing Date:  December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and tendering is
beginning in April 1980. The project extension service and credit components
are operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of
the three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further
construction of village centers is being delayed until a satisfactory plan for
using and maintaining existing centers is drawn up and plans for additional
centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976.  Effective Date:  May 1I, 1977.  Closing Date:  September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily.
After considerable delay, consultants will shortly begin to carry out the
study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's request, a
cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of the original
Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May
5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for
training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds
for this purpose.



- 42 - 
- 42 -                 ~~~~ANNEX III
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding slowly due to delays in civil works and
procurement caused by insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of
130-345 percent are likely to correct this situation and the project is
expected to start production in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal
schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment began in early 1979 and trial
runs are expected to begin in 1980.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are fully
staffed. Preparation of farm development plans has been slower than expected
but is now satisfactory. A higher than expected proportion of subloans has
been made to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are
being taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major
delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 83 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale



- 43 -                            ANNEX III
Page 8 of 9
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions perrit renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 will be close to forecasts but
there will be significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally
as a result of Government budget cuts. Foreign procurement for 1979 is
effectively up to date but local state enterprises have been unable to supply
much of the locally produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace
existing stocks). Most technical problems have been resolved.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey. The final draft of
the milk industry study is expected shortly. International recruitment of
technical specialists is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are underway. Following technical review
by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down coiler
have been deferred until a later date. Prices have been substantially
increased in January 1980. Production from existing facilities however, have
been restricted because of the lack of raw materials due to the limited
availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date:  November 16, 1978.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April 1979 and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30.
The loan is almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The engineering study has been completed and detailed design of a
pilot project to test the chosen technology has begun.



- 44 -                             ANNEX III
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committees are in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications and tender documents
is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to implement
the project related training programs. The port sector planning studies have
been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Tender documents to be sent to an
approved short list of consultants are under review.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
TSKB and ITC finalized in November the technical assistance program
for training and export development. Project screening is now underway.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB ($65 million) and 1755 SYKB ($15 million) Private Sector
Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29, 1980.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local training.
The additional consultants for technical services and for the extension ser-
vices are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan: US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980. Effective Date: April 1, 1980. Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
The loan has just become effective.



- 45 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 1
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to
prepare Project:                  10 years (1962-1972)
(b)  Agency which prepared Project:  Consultants for the State Hydraulic Works
(DSI); Electro-Watt and SGI (Switzerland);
TAMS (USA); and Dolsar (Turkey)
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                         January 1975
(d) Date of departure of
reappraisal mission:              November 1979
(e) Date of completion of nego-
tiations:                         April 1, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
In 1975, the Bank prepared and tested a computer simulation model to
investigate principles of water management during the construction, filling
and initial operation of water storage projects on the Euphrates in all the
riparian countries. Bank assisted DSI in reviewing the Project design and
developed a hydrologic model for the Euphrates basin.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)       Special conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  The signing of the financing agreements with cofinanciers, other
than EIB, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 53).
(ii)  The Government will establish a special revolving fund, with an
initial amount of 500 million TL, equal to three months' local
expenditure requirements, to be replenished monthly (para 53).
(iii)  DSI will establish a panel of experts, independent of its consul-
tants, to advise it in the event of unforeseen problems arising
during project construction (para 58).



- 46 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 2
(b)       Other conditions:
(i) DSI will continue to employ engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience, terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to the Bank (para 58).
(ii)  DSI will establish an appropriate reporting system on the operation
of the Project and the Euphrates river flows so that records are
regularly sent to the Bank (para 57).
(iii) The Government will ensure that, beginning 1981, TEK will generate
internal resources of not less than 20 percent of total TEK and DSI
investments in the power sub-sector, gradually increasing to about
35 percent in 1986 and thereafter (para 46).
(iv) The Government will undertake, through its Committee of experts,
a comprehensive review of the financial relations between various
agencies involved in the power sub-sector and develop appropriate
policies on key financial aspects of power sub-sector investment
and operations, including pricing of electricity and fuels (paras
48 and 50).
(v) The Government will undertake to develop and institute improved
procedures for power sub-sector planning, coordination and imple-
tation (para 38).
(vi) The Government will provide the Bank, by June 30, 1981 with TEK's
construction schedule for the 380-kV lines needed to connect the
Project with the power system, and a tentative financing plan for
these lines, and thereafter make satisfactory financing arrangements
for the completion of these transmission lines, prior to the com-
missioning of the generating units (para 61).
(vii) The Government will prepare a detailed and comprehensive resettle-
ment plan, and will ensure its implementation fully coordinated with
reservoir filling (para 59).



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
KARAKAYA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
International Riparian Aspects
1.         i.Karakaya is a non-water-consumptive project, once the reservoir is
filled, and therefore does not directly raise technical questions of long-term
sharing of waters with the two lower riparians, Syria and Iraq. It does, how-
ever, involve the need to ensure that, during initial filling and subsequent
operation of the reservoir, the interests of the downstream riparians are not
adversely affected. This matter was thoroughly and very carefully studied during
the preparation stages of the Project. In addition, although Karakaya is
non-consumptive, its role in regulating the flow of the Euphrates through the
riparian countries, on which a number of projects, both consumptive and non-
consumptive, are under operation or construction, or planned, in all three
riparian countries, makes its construction an appropriate occasion for
assessing the question of long-term water sharing and for seeking to establish
a process for addressing this question among the three riparians. Thus the
Bank's consideration of Karakaya from the beginning was based on seeking
satisfactory arrangements to facilitate eventual agreement among the three
riparians on long-term sharing of the waters. These arrangements are dis-
cussed below.
2.         Long-term water-sharing arrangements.  At the request of Iraq and
following discussions with all three riparians, in 1974 the Bank submitted to
Turkey, Syria and Iraq an outline of a proposed study work program in three
stages, which would provide the technical information and background studies
necessary to evaluate interim and long-term options for the coordinated utili-
zation and development of the Euphrates river resources. The Bank undertook
the first stage of the proposed work program, to prepare and test a computer
simulation model. On the basis of the information available and certain as-
sumptions, the Bank developed operating principles for Karakaya, as well as for
existing reservoirs in all three countries, which would ensure that the inter-
ests of none of the riparians would be adversely affected under any conditions
which could be reasonably anticipated. The detailed technical study underpinning
these operating principles was sent to all three countries in February 1975.
While Iraq emphasized its objection to the Bank's financing of the Karakaya
project or any other similar project in Turkey and Syria on the Euphrates
basin before an equitable agreement on the uses of the river between the
three riparian countries, it urged the Bank to continue the second and
third stages of the study program. Lack of agreement among the riparians
did not permit further Bank studies needed to fully develop and clarify
the technical options to pave the way for an ultimate settlement.
3.         Interim filling and Operation of Karakaya.  Turkey's filling and oper-
ational proposals for Karakaya were evaluated by the Bank in the model developed
in the aforementioned study. This evaluation revealed that if Turkey maintains
an average monthly discharge of water of at least 500 cubic meters per second
(cumecs), as the Euphrates passes from Turkey into Syria at Birecik, this would
ensure that: (a) the existing requirements of downstream riparians for power
generation and irrigation needs and reasonable growth in these requirements in
the coming decade, would be met; (b) the Karakaya reservoir could be filled with-
in a period of three to seven months, depending on the date of closure and ac-
tual water flows; and (c) the Turkish power plants could be operated for maximum
energy output. This operating rule is called the "Rule of 500". The study also



- 48 -                              ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
revealed that, while Turkey's release of a minimum of 500 cumecs would ensure
the lower riparians' interests, the benefits in Syria and Iraq could be further
increased if the Syrian and Iraqi reservoirs are also operated according to
principles developed in the model. These principles are:
(a) The releases from the Syrian Euphrates Tabqa reservoir be modified on
a semi-annual basis, to the extent of 60 cumecs, mainly to take
note of variations in rainfall, Iraq's irrigation demand patterns
and present storage capacity. This is referred to as the
"Rule of + 60 cumecs".
(b) Flows from upstream reaching Ramadi reservoir in Iraq in excess of
downstream irrigation requirements would be diverted and stored
in the Habbaniyah reservoir to the extent such flows can be stored
and the reservoir maintained as full as possible at all times.
4.        Turkey has accepted the proposed "Rule of 500".  Turkey also
informed Syria and Iraq in 1976 that it would observe the "Rule of 500" during
the construction, initial filling and operation of Karakaya, until such time
that any large consumptive water use project on the Euphrates is implemented
in any of the three riparian countries. Turkey invited them for tripartite
discussions to establish a mechanism for exchange of information on the hydro-
meterological data in the Euphrates basin as well as on the better use of
common waters. Iraq and Syria have yet to accept this offer. Meanwhile,
recognizing this, in March 1979, Turkey's Minister of Energy recorded an offi-
cial policy statement in the Turkish Parliament that during construction,
initial filling and operation of Karakaya, the monthly average flow of the
Euphrates river waters would not fall below 500 cumecs as measured at Birecik,
with shortfalls in any averaging period of not more than a month being made up
in the next period. He also announced that this "Rule of 500" would be applied
unless very abnormal hydrometeorological conditions exist, and as long as
Turkey had not developed a project involving a large consumptive use of the
river's waters in its territories. Turkey has also formally represented to
the Bank that in considering Karakaya for financing, the Bank may rely on this
policy statement regarding the international riparian aspects of the project.
The Bank also informed the lower riparians of the Turkish proposals for operating
Karakaya and invited their comments on the suggested principles for existing
reservoirs on the Euphrates in Syria and Iraq.
5.        Syria commented on the proposed operational rules for Euphrates
reservoirs. It suggested that the filling period should be determined on the
basis of prevailing conditions of hydrological years. It questioned some
assumptions underlying the model, in regard to return flows and rate of irriga-
tion development. Syria appeared to interpret the "Rule of 500" to imply
allocation of 45 percent of the average Euphrates yearly flow to Turkey, to be
modified by agreement when any new large water consumptive projects are started.
It indicated that its operation of Syrian reservoirs on She basis of the "Rule
of + 60 cumecs" would result in its having to store 1 km per year in the Assad
reservoir to the exclusive benefit of Iraq. Following the Bank's study of these
comments, the Bank clarified to Syria that the "Rule of 500" does not imply
any water sharing agreement between the riparians and is designed to assure the
lower riparians an average minimum monthly flow of 500 cumecs to meet present
and forecast needs of Syria and Iraq. It does not reflect the longer-term needs
at full development and for this reason, the Bank recommended that the "Rule
of 500" would have to be modified by agreement among the three riparians at



-49-                            ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
the start of any new large consumptive project on the Euphrates in any of the
riparian countries.  The "Rule of 500" implies that the filling period would
be determined on the basis of prevailing conditions at the time of the closure.
The "Rule of + 60 cumecs" would not impose any difficult obligation on Syria.
Syria is expe_..,ed to utilize its storage reservoir to regulate available water
supply in its own and Iraq's interests. Any mode of reservoir operation by
Syria in variance with the "Rule of + 60 cumecs" would likely result in reduced
energy benefits for Syria.
6.         Iraq has not communicated its comments on the operating criteria and
the suggested operational rules in Turkey and Syria.  In technical discussions
with the Bank it recognized that Karakaya is a non-consumptive project, and could
prove beneficial to Iraq through its regulation of Euphrates waters. However
the Iraqi Government expressed objection to Turkey's proceeding with the project,
until an equitable agreement among the three riparians is reached on the uses
of Euphrates waters in the three countries. Iraq seems also concerned that it
could be adversely affected if Syria did not operate the Assad reservoir in ac-
cord with the "Rule of + 60 cumecs", a danger which exists irrespective of Karakaya.
However, the impact on Iraq of Syria's not applying the "Rule of + 60 cumecs" would
be small. Moreover, Iraq would be able to protect itself against this risk
through the operation of the Haditha dam, which it has started building and
which would be completed about the same time as Karakaya. Under these circumstances
the Bank is satisfied, based on careful technical analysis, that the arrange-
ments proposed for the filling and operation of Karakaya would not adversely af-
fect the interests of downstream riparians.
7.         The Bank has repeatedly tried since 1965, when this problem was raised
in connection with the Keban Dam in Turkey, to bring about negotiations between
the riparians to resolve the question of long-term apportionment of Euphrates
and Tigris waters. The long-term interests at stake as well as political dif-
ferences have, however, proved to be obstacles difficult to overcome. In all
cases where the Bank has been involved in the financing of projects on the Eu-
phrates and Tigris (Lower Khalis in Iraq, Balikh in Syria, Karakaya in Turkey),
it has carried out detailed studies to ascertain that the projects would not
harm, or not be adversely affected by developments in the other riparian coun-
tries; it has also always endeavoured to use its good offices in order to bring
about tripartite discussions with a view to making progress towards an agree-
ment on water sharing. In the case of Karakaya, since consumptive use is limited
to initial filling, and since the "Rule of 500" agreed upon by Turkey would ade-
quately protect the downstream riparians, the Bank considers it appropriate
to participate in the financing of the Project. Turkey has agreed to
establish an appropriate reporting system on the actual operation of the
Project and the Euphrates river flows.






t   <   <   n   z   ~ ~   U    !r 
_e~~~~~        C-!  l      C*S ' 
0 00Ft,~~a,                 _ X
C   -   w   M   u   u< a   'a , n  aa   -C
C)X                     i i I  .!>  < i   a
f f    tFff  WNgj l%E'li:~~~~~~~~~n4S    -



