OAN NUMBER                 TU 4  U
Loan Agreement
(Karakaya Hydropower Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated         t    1    z            , 1980


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMEF., dated     Yq        I             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of a portion of the foreign exchange cost
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) In order to safeguard adequately the interests of the
lower riparian states the Borrower will implement certain measures
with respect to the construction, filling and operation of the dam
included in the Project as set forth in the letters dated March 7,
1979 and February 22, 1980 addressed to the Bank by the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance;
(C) The Project will be carried out by Devlet Su Isleri
(State Hydraulic Works), an agency within the Borrower's Ministry
pf Energy and Natural Resources established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's law No. 6200 dated December 25,1953 (hereinafter
called DSI) and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to DSI the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(D) As and when the facilities to be constructed under the
Project are brought into commercial operation, the Borrower
intends to transfer the said facilities as an equity contribution
pursuant to the provisions of the Turkish Electricity Authority's
Law, dated July 15, 1970, to Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu, a state
economic enterprise established and operating under the said law
(hereinafter called TEK).
(E) By agreements dated October 31, 1977 and May 18, 1978
(hereinafter called the Bilateral Credit Agreement) the Credit
Suisse at Zurich and Swiss Banks led by the Union Bank of Switzer-
land at Zurich have agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the
Bilateral Credits) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about $305,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth.
(F) The Borrower intends to obtain additional financing
from the European Investment Bank in an amount of $110,000,000


﻿- 2 -
(hereinafter called the EIB Loan) and from other lenders outside
Turkey in an amount of not less than $46,000,000 equivalent
(hereinafter called the Other Credit) to assist in financing the
civil works for the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditio,is; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) the term "TKI" means Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu, a
state economic enterprise established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "Central Project Coordinating Committee"
means the committee established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 7/8753 dated July 7, 1974; and
(c) "TL" and "Lira" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-3-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DSI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall establish, or cause to be.established, a special revolving
fund in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank to be used exclusively to make payments for the goods
and services required on the part of DSI to carry out the Project.
The Borrower shall deposit or cause to be deposited in said
revolving fund amounts as shall be from time to time required on
the part of DSI to make the payments necessary for carrying out
the Project, promptly as needed. The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
operations and financial condition of said revolving fund.
(c) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall make or cause
to be made an initial deposit in the revolving fund of
TL 500,000,000 and thereafter shall on a monthly basis make or
cause to be made such deposits in the revolving fund as are
required so that on the first day of each month the-re shall be
available in the fund amounts sufficient to meet payments for the
cost of the Project required on the part of DSI to cover the
forthcoming three months of such costs as reasonably estimated
by the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.03
of this Agreement on the basis of the work schedules relating
thereto.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01. of this Agreement,
the Borrower undertakes to take all such steps as may be required
during the execution of the Project to meet reasonable environmen-
tal protection standards.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist DSI in the preparation
of plans and specifications for, in the preparation of bidding
documents for, in the supervision of the construction of, and in
the initial operation of the facilities constructed under the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint a board of independent
experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and
conditions to provide inter alia for advice to DSI by said experts


﻿-5-
in the event of any unforeseen problems arising during construc-
tion of the facilities provided under the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
.        Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall issue, promptly, as and when needed,
any import and other licences including any foreign exchange
authorizations required for the importation of goods, or the
supply of services, for the Project, or for the replacement
or repair of such goods.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause DSI to main-
tain records adequate (A) to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and (B) to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
within thirty calendar days after each calendar quarter a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request on the progress of the Project, during such quarter;
and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the


﻿-6-
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods Lnd services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of Section 3.05, the Borrower shall make
appropriate arrangements to relocate any residents on land
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project (including without limitation the land to
be inundated by the maximum level of the Karakaya reservoir), all
to be in accordance with a timetable and a plan of action satis-
factory to the Bank, which shall be furnished to the Bank by
February 28, 1981 or such other date as the Bank may agree.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1980,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, employ until the Project
has been completed, a full-time project site manager with such
functions, responsibilities and authorities for the resolution of
site problems, qualifications and experience as shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the qualifica-
tions and experience of any person considered for any new
appointment to the position of project site manager.
Section 3.08. Until the Project has been completed, the
Borrower shall maintain in existence in its Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources, its Central Project Coordinating Committee with
such powers, functions, responsibilities, composition, and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-7-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensur that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this SecLion, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivisior thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including assets held by the T. C. Merkez
Bankasi or any other institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DSI and TEK to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
public utility practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DSI and TEK to take
all such action as may be required on their part to ensure that


﻿-8-
the undertakings set forth in the letters of the Borrower referred
to in paragraph (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement are ful-
filled.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and submit to
the Bank by March 31, 1981 or such other date as the Bank may
agree, a reporting system satisfactory to the Bank and adequate to
provide recorded river flows, including without limitation
measurement criteria and methods of measurement to be used to
determine periodic mean river flows at the measuring station
operating on the Euphrates River near the city of Birecik within
the Borrower's territory and shall thereafter monitor at all times
the Euphrates river flows at such measuring station at Birecik in
accordance with such system.
(b) For purposes of the foregoing and as part of such
information as may be requested under subparagraph (ii) of
paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank within thirty calendar days
after the end of each calendar quarter a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, containing
the Euphrates river flows data as measured at the Birecik station
as provided in this Section, and all such additional information
related thereto, as the Bank may reasonably request.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1980, establish and thereafter
maintain in existence until December 31, 1983, a committee of
experts whose qualifications and experience with respect to the
pricing of electricity and financing of the electric power
sub-sector shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the committee established
pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof to complete, by June 30, 1981,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree, a
comprehensive review of the financial aspects related to the
electric power sub-sector development in Turkey on a viable
basis under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) On the basis of the review undertaken pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall by
December 31, 1981 or such other date as the Bank may agree,
furnish recommendations to the Bank and thereafter afford the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to comment on such recommendations and on
the measures for their implementation, and after considering the


﻿- 9 -
Bank's comments thereon, but in any event no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1983 or such other date as the Bank may agree, adopt all
such measures as may be required to implement such recommenda-
tions, all in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank
to be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1982 or such other
date as the Bank may agree.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall complete by December 31,
1981, or such other date as the Bank may agree, a review of
existing arrangements for the coordination of the development and
investment plans of TEK and DSI with respect to hydro-electric
planning and those of TEK and TKI with respect to thermal power
and related mining development, all with a view to formulating
proposals designed to improve coordination of such plans consis-
tent with national and annual plans.
(b)   On the basis of the review referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall by December 30, 1981
or such other date as the Bank may agree, make and furnish to the
Bank, recommendations on strengthening integrated investment
planning and coordinating procedures to be used for its electric
power sub-sector development and on measures to be taken to insure
the timely execution of related investment plans, and the Borrowe.
shall, after having afforded the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon, promptly implement such recommendations and
measures.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause DSI and TEK to
operate, maintain, renew and repair, at all times the facilities
constructed under the Project including but without limitation,
the dam and reservoir to be constructed under the Project, and
promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the
preceding paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i)
furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, by December 31,
1980 or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree a
description of the nature of, the frequency of, and of the
monitoring procedures to be used for, the inspection of its
hydroworks and dams in its territory; (ii) with the assistance, if
need be, of engineering consultants whose qualificatiotns,


﻿- 10 -
experience and terms of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, inspect or cause the dam, waterways, etrthworks and
reservoir banks and their appurtenant structures constructed under
the Project to be periodically inspected, at intervals of not less
than one year and in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices, in order to determine whether there are any deficien-
cies in the condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the
quality and adequacy of earthworks which may endanger the safety
of such structures and earthworks, the first of such inspections,
to start not later than December 31, 1986, or such other date as
the Bank may agree; (iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the
Bank, promptly after each such inspection, the conclusions thereof
including if need be the conclusions of said engineering con-
sultants; (iv) make, promptly after each such inspection, all
necessary repairs of such structure and earthworks; and (v)
make all necessary modifications in the quality and adequacy
of maintenance cr methods of operation of such structures and
earthworks, all to be in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices.
Section 4.08. Except as the Borrrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and subject to the provisions of Section 4.05
of this Agreement:
(a) commencing with TEK's Fiscal Year 1981, the Borrower
shall take or cause to be taket, from time to time, all such steps
(including, but without limitation, adjustments of its structure
or overall level of TEK's electricity rates) as shall be required
to provide TEK with funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20% in Fiscal Year 1981 and gradually increasing to
35% in Fiscal Year 1986 and thereafter, of the annual capital
expenditures of TEK and DSI for power projects during the Fiscal
Year concerned. For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) the term "funds from internal sources" shall
be calculated as the difference between:
(A) the sum of gross revenues from all sources,
cash consumer contributions in aid of con-
struction, net non-operating income, and any
reduction in net working capital other than
cash; and
(B) the sum of all expenses of operations, main-
tenance and administration (excluding depre-
ciation, income tax and any charges, provided


﻿- 11 -
for in the Borrower's laws), repayment of
loans (including sinking fund payments, if
any) and interest and other charges on debt of
TEK and DSI with respect to power projects,
all cash dividends and other cash distribu-
tions of income and/or surplus, increase in
net working capital other than cash, and any
other cash outflows other than capital invest-
ments related to electricity operations.
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" includes interest
during construction; and
(iii) the term "net working capital other than cash"
shall mean the sum of accounts receivable from
customers and materials and supplies less accounts
payable.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank not later than December 31 in each year:
(i) a funds flow analysis for the previous Fiscal
Year showing, inter alia, the results of applying
the test defined in paragraph (a) hereof (the test)
to such Fiscal Year;
(ii) a funds flow forecast for the next Fiscal Year
showing, inter alia, the projected results of
applying the test to such Fiscal Year;
(iii) the Borrower's total power sector investment plan
for TEK and DSI including interest charged during
construction for the next year; and
(iv) a proposed action plan to achieve the requirements
of paragraph (a) above on the basis of the funds
flow forecast and the investment plan referred to
in paragraphs (b) (ii) and (iii), respectively,
and promptly but in any event not later than May 31
of each year implement agreed measures.
Section 4.09. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall take, or cause TEK to take, all action as may be
required to (A) furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1981 a financing


﻿- 12 -
plan satisfactory to the Bank with respect to the construction of
the 380 kV power transmission lines needed for tIe Project and
thereafter conclude corresponding financing arrangements for the
construction of said transmission lines, (B) complete, not later
than October 31, 1984 or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree, in accordance with a construction schedule accept-
able to the Bank and to be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1981,
or such other date as the Borrowef and the Bank may agree, the
construction of said 380 kV power transmission lines, including
without limitation, the construction and installation of the
related ancillary facilities for connecting the Project facilities
with TEK's inter-connected power transmission system, and (C) to
maintain such transmission lines in accordance with appropriate
technical, engineering and public utility practices; the Borrower
shall provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate for the purpose so as to enable TEK to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on its other obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement the Borrower undertakes to take all
such steps as may be required (i) to transfer to TEK in each year,
in the form of equity, one sixth of the total cost of the assets
constructed under the Project, for each 1,200 million kilowatt
hours generated through the facilities constructed or installed
under the Project in said year, such transfer of assets to include
appropriate allowance for interest during construction, provided,
however, that the total cost of the said assets shall be trans-
ferred not later than the year in which the Project facilities
generate 7,200 million kilowatt hours, and (ii) to cause TEK
to assume all rights of uiwnership and exclusive control of such
assets, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the nurposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following aaditional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur under any loan agreement between
the Bank and TEK or on the part of the Borrower under any guaran-
tee agreement related to any such loan agreement.


﻿- 13 -
(b) (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the EIB Loan, the Other Credit, or
of any of the Bilateral Credits made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreements providing there-
for, or
(B) The EIB Loan, the Other Credit, or any of
the Bilateral Credits shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Boirower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 14 -
(a) The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank under which the proceeds of the Other Credit are to be made
available to the Borrower as and when required to meet expendi-
tures required to complete the Project in a timely manner; and
(b) The Borrower has appointed the members of the board
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower has established the special revolving
fund referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and made or
caused to made the initial deposit specified in paragraph (b) of
said Section.
Section 6.02. The date AUJUt        ' 1         , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
MALIYE                             42285 MLYE TR
HAZINE                             42689 ANK TR
Ankara


﻿- 15 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 9
Atn e-       Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to such Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil and hydraulic         112,500,000       45% of foreign
works including                               expenditures
materials and equip-
ment related thereto
(2) Materials and equip-          5,000,000       100% of foreign
ment related to the                           expenditures
relocation of rail-
ways, roads and
bridges
(3) Unallocated                   2,500,000
TOTAL    120,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,


﻿- 17 -
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000
may be made in respect of Category 1 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bar! 'as reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Turkish power system development
plans and constitutes the second step in the long range develop-
ment of the Euphrates River power resources in Turkey. The Project
consists of the construction of the Karakaya hydropower plant
with a reservoir of 5.6 km3 of useful storage on the Euphrates
River, located about 160 km downstream of the Keban hydropower
plant, comprising a concrete arch-gravity dam 173 m high with
an overflow spillway, intakes, penstocks, a power house at the
toe of the dam containing six 300-MW turbo-generator units,
appropriate accessory equipment and a switchyard located 2.5 km
from the dam, relocation of about 33 kilometers of railway line,
construction of about 35 kilometers of new roads, and of two
bridges, replacing existing roads and bridges, respectively, and
resettlement of population, estimated at about 17,000 living in
34 villages.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1984
through   September 15, 1996                 4,615,000
On March 15, 1997                                 4,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                    7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                    8.25%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordanue with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Turkey may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 22 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that dill
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1)  Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Turkey.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid o   each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and >ther import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
,the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualifiation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic
preference under Part 3.2 above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and material
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 24 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, proLptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   /A     day of 6M_, 198'&
FOR SECRETARY


