RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                                  Report No. P-72
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its afflliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
June 12, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOFMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMVIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $30 million, to
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to assist in financing Pakistan's agricul-
tural development program, primarily by providing assistance to the Agricul-
tural Development Bank (ADB) for its ongoing tubewell and farm mechanization
lending program.
PART I - HISTOPICAL
2.      During the last two years, development of Pakistan's agricultural
sector made considerable progress, as the Government's decision to place
the highest priority on agriculture in its Third Five-Year Plan (1965/66 -
1969/70) began to bear fruit.   ADB, which is the major vehicle for providing
medium and long-term credit to individual farmers and agricultural co-opera-
tives in Pakistan, has played an important part in the Government's strategy.
3.      In 1965, the Association made a first credit of $27 million (Credit
76-PAK) to finance part of ADB's lending program for the installation of
tubewells and the purchase of farm machinery.   In 1967/68, the Government
applied for a second credit of $40 million in support of ADB's continuing
program.   While financial assistance of this magnitude would have been
justified on the merits of the program, the IDA credit had to be limited to
$10 million (Credit 117-PAK) as a result of the shortage of IDA funds.    The
Kingdom of Sweden agreed to join in the operation with a participation of
$5 million.   This joint operation with Sweden covered the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of a one-year lending program.   Results under both
IDA credits have been very satisfactory.   Credit 76-PAK was fully disbursed
early last May before the Closing Date; funds under Credit 117-PAK and under
the Swedish credit have been fully committed and are expected to be disbursed
by the Closing Date of December 31, 1969.
4.      The project was appraised in November/December 1968.   Negotiations
for the proposed credit took place between May 23 and June 9, 1969.   Mr.
K.S. Islam, Chairman, ADB, Mr. A.R. Bashir, Economic Minister, Embassy of
Pakistan, and Dr. Ashraf-uz-Zaman, Economic Secretary, Embassy of Pakistan,
represented the Borrower.
5.      As at April 30, 1969, the Association had made 26 credits to Pakistan,
totalling about $348.5 million, of which six are fully disbursed.    The Bank
had made 28 loans, totalling about $592 million, of which 17 are fully



- 2 -
disbursed.   The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Pakistan as at April 30, 1969:
Amount (U.S. $ Million)
Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Total (less cancellations)                591.9     348.5
of which has been repaid                120.7
Total now outstanding                     471.2
Amount sold                  21.9
of which has been repaid   17.0           4.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA            466.3     348.5
Total undisbursed                         207.5     108.4      315.9
6.      Details about the status of individual loans and credits are con-
tained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the President's Report, P-727, dated June
12, 1969, on a proposed Pakistan Western Railway project presented concur-
rently for your consideration.   A reference to the rate of disbursement of
some loans and credits is made in paragraph 7 of that report.
7.      To date IFC has made eleven commitments in Pakistan totalLing about
$28 million.   The outstanding amount, net of repayments, cancellations and
sales of loans, is about $20.6 million.   IFC is presently considering invest-
ment applications in textile machinery and fertilizer production.   IFC
operations in Pakistan are proceeding satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TlIE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.      Borrower                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:              Agricultural Development Bank, for that
part of the credit($27.7 million) allocated
for its ongoing lending program.
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to $30 millionI.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing the foreign exchange
component of ADB's ongoing tubewell and
farm mechanization program, and the importa.-
tion of tractor spare parts.



-3 -
Amortization:            The development credit would be for a period
of 50 years, including a 10 year grace
period, repayable in semi-annual installments
commencing December 1.5, 1979 and ending June
15, 2019; each payment up to and including
the payment due on June 15, 1989 to be 1/2 of
1%; thereafter to be 1-1/2% of the principal
amount.
Service Charge:          3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:         The Government of Pakistan will relend to ADB
the proceeds of the credit allocated to ADB
($27.7 million) for a term of 20 years,
including a 5 year grace period at 4% per
annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Third Credit for the Agricultural Development Bank
of Pakistan" (PA-15a) dated June 12, 1969.
10.       Agriculture is of prime importance to the economy of Pakistan. It
accounts for 43% of the gross national product, and employs about 75% of the
labor force. A key element in the Government's strategy during the last
five years for sustaining a high rate of economic growth despite substantial
shortfalls in resources has been the shift of priorities towards agriculture.
This was further strengthened by the introduction in 1966/67 of the foodgrairn
self-sufficiency program. However, adverse weather held back agricultural
production in the first two years of the Plan period, but dramatic progress
occurred in 1967/68 and 1968/69. In IWlest Pakistan in particular, wheat
production climbed from the previous peak of 4.5 million tons in 1964/65 to
6.3 million tons in 1967/68 and to an estimated 6.8 million tons this year,
with other crops, especially rice, showing substantial increases as well.
Part of these results may be attributed to favourable weather conditions, but
increased supplies of irrigation water and the use of new inputs, particularly
new wheat and rice varieties and fertilizers, together with modern farm
machinery, were also important factors. While improvements were also
achieved in East Pakistan, production results continued to be dominated by
basic constraints associated with the physical characteristics of Pakistan's
East Wing.
11.       In the light of these developments, the Government has now come to
the conclusion that part of the subsidies and other measures taken to promote
the rapid acceptance of new technology can now be reduced. In particular,
the Government has already reduced the support price for wheat in West



Pakistan from Rs. 17 to Rs. 15 per maund, a reduction of more than 10%.
The amount of subsidies for fertilizers in Ttest Pakistan were also halved.
For the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1969, several measures are being
contemplated, including increases in the rates for irrigation water and
measures designed to raise the domestic price of farm machinery by about
25%.   Taken as a whole, these measures are expected to reduce considerably
the high differential incentives which existed previously for the agricul-
tural sector, as well as the financial burden previously borne by the Govern-
ment to sustain agricultural growth.
12.     Nonetheless, a continuing effort will be required to sustain the
momentum of agricultural expansion.    Of importance among supporting measures
are farm mechanization, groundwater exploitation, and the expansion of
agricultural credit.   Since ADB is the major source of medium and long term
credit to agriculturalists in Pakistan, continued successful expansion of
ADB's operations is essential.
13.     The proposed credit would primarily assist ADB in financing its
ongoing lending program, for a period of two years, for tubewell irrigation
and farm mechanization.   The credit is expected to finance the installation
of about 8,000 tubewells, and the purchase of over 5,000 tractors, together
with various tractor implements and other farm machinery, as well as about
3,000 power tillers.   As indicated in the Appraisal Report, the main part
of the credit is expected to be channelled to West Pakistan.    However,
several other credits for East Pakistan are presently under consideration
which would finance low lift pumps, tubewells and other irrigation require-
ments for the East Wing.
1].     To remedy the problem of lack of spare parts which, in the past, has
caused less than optimum use of some tractors, the Government has agreed to
license annual imports of tractor spare parts during the next two fiscal
years, equal to at least 10% of the value of tractors imported in the prece-
ding five years.   Of the proposed credit, $2.3 million would be used to
import spare parts for tractors financed under previous IDA credits.
15.     The total cost of the project is presently estimated at about
$47.7 million; the foreign exchange component thereof, estimated at $30
million, would be financed by the credit.   About 18,000 farms are expected
to benefit from ADB's lending program which, on the basis of existing crop-
ping patterns, would permit annual increases in foodgrain production by
about 160,000 tons and cotton production by 2,800 tons.    The rate of return
for the project, excluding importation of tractor spare parts, has been
calculated at 18%.
16.     The Agricultural Development Bank is wholly owned by the Central and
Provincial Governments and was set up in 1961 to provide credit for agricul-
tural development.   ADB is experienced and capable of administering the
proposed lending program.   As part of the project, however, ADB will be
further strengthened by the employment of a farm management expert, the



establishment of a technical services unit, and the standardization of
appraisal procedures for more effective appraisal and supervision.
17.    As in the case of the two previous credits to ADB, tractors and
other farm machinery would be purchased by farmers from local suppliers who
represent a number of international firms able to provide adequate after-
sales service.   Installation of tubewells would be by local contractors
using imported and locally manufactured parts purchased through market chan-
nels.   ADB may make some large loans to enterprises engaged in farm custom
work; in the case of single loans involving the purchase of imported equip-
ment valued at more than $100,000, orders would be placed on the basis of
formal international competitive bidding.
18.    The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed credit to
ADB at 4%0' per annum for twenty years, including a five-year grace period on
repayments of principal.   ADB would relend to farmers at 8% per annum, as
compared to 7$ previously, generally for 4 to 6 years including a one year
grace period.
PART IV - LEGIL IiNSTRITHENTS AN) AUTHORITY
19.    The draft Credit Agreement between the Association and the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.   The documents are
substantially similar to those for previous agricultural credits in Pakistan.
Attention is drawn to Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement, which provides,
as a condition of effectiveness, that the Government shall take measures to
increase the domestic price of farm machinery.   These measures are expected
to be included in the budget for 1969/70.
PARIT V - THE ECONOTY
20.    A Report on the Current Economic Position and Prospects of Pakistan
(SA-4a), dated April 18, 1969, has been distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors.   On May 19 and 20, 1969, the Twelfth Meeting of the Pakistan
Consortium was held in Paris and a summary of the discussion on economic
performance and policy is presented in paragraphs 20-25 of the President's
Report and Recommendation on the proposed Pakistan Wlestern Railway project
which is being presented concurrently for your consideration.



- 6 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE -IITH ARTICLES OF AGREEiENT
21.    I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
22.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Attachment                                      Robert S. McNamara
President
June 12, 1969



