VIIV      COPY                   R E S TRESTRICTED
ftLE ltff                          Report No. PA-15&
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THIRD CREDIT
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
PAKISTAN
June 12, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
u1S $1           =      4. 76 rupees (Rs)
I's 1            =      US $0. 21
Rs 1,000,000     =      US $210, 000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre           =      0.405 ha
1 cusec          =      a volumetric flow =
1 cubic ft/sec
1 pound (lb)     =      0. 453 kg
I maund          =      82. 29 lb
1 metric ton     =      2, 207. 505 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP             -      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
EPADC            -      East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation
MAF              -      Million Acre of Land Covered with 1 cubic Foot of Water
Government       -      Government of Pakistan
State Bank       -      State Bank of Pakistan



PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page T!,o.
SMMJ9ARY................................
I.   INTRODUCTION ................................................1
II.  BACKGROUND ....................................          ,    .1
Agricultural Production and Third Plan Targets ............1
Water Resources ...........................................              2
Farm Machinery Investments ................................              3
Agricultural Credit .......................................              4
III. THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN ...............              4
Organization and Management ...............................              4
Lending Policies and Procedures ...........................              5
Lending Operations ........................................              5
Sources of Funds ..........................................              5
Results of Operations .....................................              6
Financial Condition .......................................              6
IV.  PROJECT PERFORMANCE UNDER CREDITS 76-PAK AND 117-PAK ........              7
Purpose of Credits ........................................              7
Progress of Operations ....................................              8
Results Under Credit 76-PAK ............................,                8
V.   THE PROJECT .................................................10
Brief Description .........................................             10
Financing ...........................                                   12
Organization and Management ...........................           ^     13
Lending Procedures, Terms, and Criteria ...................             14
Disbursements .............................................             15
Proculrement ...............................................            16
VI.   PRODUCTION AND MARKETS ......................................             17
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................................              18
VIII.CONCLUSIONS .................................................              19
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. C.E. Eugenio, H.T. Chang, L. Christoffersen and A. Egbert (IDA) and
H. Vieilhescaze (Consultant), which visited Pakistan in November/December
1968, and who all contributed to the report with Messrs. Eugenio and
Christoffersen having primary responsibility.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
-- Appendix 1-1 - Interest Rates in Pakistan
-- Appendix 1-2 - Loans Sanctioned by ADB Since Start of Operations
-- Appendix 1-3 - Statements of Loans Disbursed According to Purpose
of the Loans
-- Appendix 1-4 - Statement of Loans Disbursed According to the Size
of Holdings During the Years 1966/67-1967/68
-- Appendix 1-5 - Comparative Statement of Net Income
-- Appendix 1-6 - Comparative Statement of Resources, Liabilities
and Capital - 1967-1968
-- Appendix 1-7 - Record of Loan Collections
2.   Sanctions, Disbursements, and Withdrawls Under IDA Credits 76-PAK and
117-PAK as at September 30, 1968
3.   Economic Benefits and Calculations
-- Appendix 3-1 - Average Cost and Income Before and After Tubewell
Installation - Sample of 19 Farms in West Pakistan
-- Appendix 3-2 - Average Costs and Income before and after Purchase
of Tractor
-- Appendix 3-3 - Estimated Financial Costs and Benefits of Tubewell
-- Appendix 3-4 - Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits of Tubewell
-- Appendix 3-5 - Estimated Financial Cost and Benefits of Tractor
Investment
-- Appendix 3-6 - Estimated Economic Costs and Benefits of Tractor
Investment
4.   Tariffs and Levies on Tractors and Tractor Spare Parts
5.   Expected Distribution of Investment Program
6.   Project Cash Flow
7.   Schemes for Improving Loan Appraisal Procedures and Supervision
8.   Projected Statement of Sources and Application of Funds (Entire Oper-
ations), During 1968/69 to 1972/73
9.   Projected Statement of Net Income during the Fiscal Years Indicated
10. Projected Statement of Resources, Liabilities, and Capital as of Dates
Indicated.



PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Pakistan (Government) has requested an IDA Credit
of US$30 million to help finance: (a) the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan's (ADBP) on-going tubewell irrigation and farm mechanization lending
program, and (b) the importation of spare parts necessary to maintain the
tractor population.
ii.       Two previous Credits were made available to ADBP in support of the
same lending program: in 1965, Credit 76-PAK for US$27 million (tubewell
and power pump irrigation and farm machinery); in 1968, Credit 117-PAK for
US$10 million (plus another US$5 million equivalent from Sweden for the same
program) for farm machinery. Allocations for the various investment items
have been fully disbursed, or committed.
iii.      Irrigation and farm mechanization are important in the Government's
agricultural development strategy. In West Pakistan, ADBP's lending program
would, as before, finance medium- and large-scale farmers in acquiring tube-
well irrigation and, also, in purchasing tractors and other farm machinery
where water supplies are sufficient to permit expansion of the cropped land
or the extension of double cropping. However, the proposed Project would
now emphasize the use of tractor implements to increase the overall effective-
ness of machinery and equipment use. In East Pakistan, the lending program
would assist farmers to acquire power tillers and some tractors to intensify
f'ood (mainly rice) production.
iv.       The subsidy provided through the low prices of farm machinery for
the purpose of encouraging farm mechanization can now be reduced. To mini-
mize uneconomic demands on such machinery (especially tractors), Government
will take measures which will have the effect of increasing the present
domestic price of farm machinery by 25%; ADBP for its part will ensure that
credit applications for farm mechanization will be subjected to more in-depth
appraisal wherein financial and technical feasibility will be the prime de-
terminants; and interest on medium- and long-term loans will be increased
from 7% to 8% per annum. The last measure will also improve ADBP's operating
results to allow the build-up of surplus reserves.
v.        Lack of tractor spare parts has resulted in underutilization of
tractors. Government has, therefore, undertaken to allocate foreign exchange
f'or spare parts for all tractors (IDA and non-IDA financed) to remedy the
situation. IDA would provide assistance for spare parts only for tractors
f'inanced by it under the two previous credits.
vi.       ADBP functions under competent management.   However, as part of the
Third Project it will hire a farm management expert, create technical service
umits in th6 field, and standardize its appraisal procedures for more effec-
tive loan appraisal and supervision.



- ii -
vii.      As under Credits 76-PAK and 117-PAK, the Government will make
funds for the lending program under the Third Credit available to ADBP at
4% per annum, at the official rate of exchange, and for a period of 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period. Terms of loans to farmers would be gener-
ally from 4 to 6 years, with 1 year of grace period, at 8% interest per
annum. Funds for the importation of tractor spares would be retained by the
Government.
viii.     The Project would cost about US$47.7 million:   US$45.4 million of
investments in tubewell irrigation and farm machinery, and US$2.3 million
for spares for IDA-financed, tractors. The foreign exchange requirement is
estimated at US$30 million (63% of the Project cost) and would be fully cov-
ered by the proposed Credit.
ix.       The size of individual farm loans under the proposed Credit is too
small to make international competitive bidding practicable. As in the case
of the two previous Credits, farm machinery would be supplied by government
authorizied dealers. An adequate number of well known international manu-
facturers of agricultural machinery and equipment are represented in Pakistan
and are required to provide adequate after-sales service. Nevertheless, for
any loan of US$100,000 or more, IDA approval is required and should this
involve foreign exchange purchases of more than US$100,000, procurement would
be through international competitive bidding. Installation of tubewells
would be by local contractors using imported and locally manufactured parts.
x.        The Project is sound and economically justified.   The returns on
investments are satisfactory both to the individual farmer (20-60%) and to
the economy as a whole (about 18%). The Project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$30 million.



PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1965, IDA made available to the Agricultural Development Bank
of Pakistan (ADBP) a Credit (Credit 76-PAK) of US$27 million to assist in
f'inancing a lending program in support of the Government of Pakistan's
(Government) farm mechanization objectives. This Credit was to help in pro-
viding medium- and long-term credit, during a three-year period, for the
installation of tubewells (US$10 million) and the purchase of farm machinery
(US$17 million). The amount allocated for farm machinery credits was dis-
bursed ahead of schedule and to continue the lending program, a Second Credit
was granted in 1968 (Credit 117-PAK) for US$10 million (together with US$5
million equivalent provided by Sweden for the same project), to help finance,
during a one-year period, the purchase of tractors and other farm machinery
(US$11.5 million) and the acquisition of low-lift irrigation power pumps
(US$3.5 million).
1.02      The amount allocated for tubewells under Credit 76-PAK is now
f'ully disbursed. Credit 117-PAK is progressing satisfactorily, and is expec-
ted to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1969, the closing date of the
Credit. Accordingly, Government has now applied for further financial assis-
tance to continue the farm mechanization lending program of ADBP.
1.03      This appraisal report of a Third Credit for ADBP which includes a
discussion of performance under the first two Credits, is based on discus-
sions with officials of and materials supplied by Government and ADBP, and
on investigations in the field by an IDA appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. C. E. Eugenio, H. T. Chang, L. Christoffersen, A. Egbert (IDA) and
Hf. Vieilhescaze (Consultant) which visited Pakistan in November/December 1968.
II. BACKGROUND
Agricultural Production and Third Plan Targets
2.01      Agricultural production contributes almost half of Pakistan's Gross
Niational Product and accounts for two-thirds of its exports. About 68% of
al1 cultivated area is located in West Pakistan, where in recent years a
large expansion of irrigated land has taken place through private and public
investment. East Pakistan, on the other hand, has more than half of total
population (about 68 million out of 126 million for all of Pakistan) and a
population density as high as 1,200 per square mile (against less than 200
per square mile in the Western Province). Limited opportunities exist in
East Pakistan for an expansion of land suitable for agriculture.
2.02      Food production is of high priority in Pakistan's agricultural pol-
icies. A major objective in the revised Third Plan (1965-70) is the achieve-
ment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains.   For West Pakistan, where a wide



- 2 -
range of crops is grown, this means primarily an increase in wheat produc-
tion, which already at the beginning of the Plan period accounted for about
14 million of the 35 million acres of cropped area in the Province. Signif-
icant increases in the production of maize and rice were also targeted. In
East Pakistan, self-sufficiency in rice is the main objective with the short-
term emphasis on: (a) increasing the yield per acre of existing crops, and
(b) intensifying the cropping pattern by expanding the "boro" (winter) rice
production.
2.03      The first two years of the Third Plan (1965/66 to 1966/67) have
been disappointing for agricultural growth. In part, this was due to adverse
weather conditions - droughts in West Pakistan and floods in East Pakistan.
An annual average sectorial. growth of only 1.4% was achieved against a Plan
target of 5% per annum. Food crops, in particular, failed to live up to
expectations: wheat production in both of the two years was below the 4.5
million tons produced in 1964/65, the last year of the Second Plan, while
rice production virtually stagnated at 1.3 million tons in West Pakistan,
and even declined in East Pakistan from 10.3 million tons in 1964-65 to only
9.4 million tons in 1966-67. The effect on Pakistan's balance of payments
was adverse. Food imports (other than those through PL-480) in 1966-67
amounted to Rs. 420 million, or about 67% higher than 1964-65.
2.04      In contrast, 1967-68 was a good year for agriculture in Pakistan.
Weather conditions were very favorable, ample supplies of irrigation water
were available, and the employment of new and improved inputs, including the
new seed varieties, increased significantly at the farm level. Of great
significance was the fact that fertilizer consumption was about 50% higher
in 1967-68 than the previous year. Thus, agricultural output in 1967-68
increased at a record 11% over that of 1966-67 and 14% above the 1964-65
level. Larger wheat and rice crops contributed substantially to this record
increase. Wheat production rose by about 40% over the year to a level of
about 6.0 million tons, while the rice crop increased by an estimated 14%
to around 12.2 million tons in 1967-68.
Water Resources
2.05      Water resource development continues to be a decisive factor in
Pakistan's agricultural strategy. The revised production targets under the
current Plan envisage an increase in overall water supply of 17 million acre
feet (MAF) by 1969-70. Government authorities estimate that almost two-
thirds of this increasw would be brought about by public sector investments -
the balance from private tubewell investments. In order to achieve the esti-
mated investments from the private sector, farmers and cooperatives would
have to bring into operation about 32,000 tubewells over the Five-Year Plan
period. Together with 8,000 tubewells needed for replacement, this would
mean an average of about 8,000 new private tubewells annually. During 1965-
66 and 1966-67, Government estimated that almost 20,000 tubewells were put
into use by farmers, or already about 62% of the total Plan target. Most of
this increase took place in 1966-67 when more than 11,000 private tubewells
became operational. Estimates of 1967-68 tubewell investments are still very
tentative, but they indicate a slowdown relative to the increase in the pre-
vious year. Partly, this appears to have been caused by an administrative



- 3 -
bottleneck in the licensing system regarding the importation of pipe casings
and components for local pump industries. While foreign exchange has been
available for such use under Credit 76-PAK, it appears that, for a while,
import licenses were not being issued by Government for fear that tubewell
components might be channeled into use by sectors other than the local pump
manufacturers. IDA was informed that this difficulty has now been resolved
and that tubewell components and raw materials are being imported to meet
farmers' demand.
2.o6      In East Pakistan, the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Cor-
poration's (EPADC) low-life pump irrigation program, which received assis-
tance under Credit 117-PAK, is progressing ahead of Plan schedule. In 1967-
68, about 6,500 pumps (mostly of 2 cusec capacity) have been installed for
use by groups of farmers. The program expects that about 12,000 pumps would
be in the field during 1968-69, and 25,000 by the end of the Third Plan
(1969-TO). No further ADBP financing is required to achieve these targets.
(An IDA loan to East Pakistan for low-lift pumps through EPADC/Thana Irri-
gation Plan is being appraised.  A current USAID loan to Pakistan allocates
U';$2 million for fractional low-lift irrigation pumps. See Para. 4.03 also.)
Farm Machinery Investments
2.07      To make full and effective use of the water resources already
developed and planned for development, farm mechanization is essential. Im-
provements of animal drawn implements have been under way for some time.
Introduction of tractors and power tillers was accelerated by the two pre-
vious loans to the ADBP. At present Pakistan has about 15-20,000 tractors.
Annual tractor additions have been about 3,000-4,000. A network of machin-
ery dealers representing 5 major makes has been established to sell and
service tractors and farm machinery. Hovever, a shortage of spare parts and
implements has prevented efficient use of existing tractors. Notwithstanding
this situation, the low price of tractors, the favorable terms of tractor
loans, and favorable crop prices created a demand for tractors which could
not be met out of current import quotas.
2.08      Farm mechanization is an important factor for agricultural devel-
oignent in Pakistan. Additional water supply permits more double cropping,
but this is possible only if the land can be prepared for a second crop with-
in a few weeks after the first crop has been harvested. With animal draft
pcwer only a small part of the land can be prepared in time.   In areas with
sufficient water, further extension of intensive double cropping has been
limited by the lack of sufficient labor and draft power. Furthermore, the
new seed varieties require better seedbed preparation, which is only pos-
sible with mechanical power and modern implements. Under these circumstan-
ces, mechanization is essential for farming intensification and the Govern-
ment is right to consider it an important part of its agricultural develop-
ment program.



Agricultural Credit
2.09      ADBP is the most important source of institutional credit for farm-
ers in Pakistan. It grants about half of the approximately Rs.300 million of
loans extended annually to farmers by the 3 main institutional sources of
credit: ADBP, cooperatives, and "taccavi" (direct Government loans through
the revenue offices). Besides exclusively providing almost all of the medium-
and long-term loans granted to agriculture, it also, in 1967-68, had to ex-
pand its short-term lending operations, largely because of the failure of the
cooperative credit societies to undertake adequately this function. Proposed
changes to revitalize the cooperative credit system (e.g., restructure the
agricultural cooperatives under a branch banking system) have not yet been
implemented. Also, a new scheme requiring private commercial banks to open
branches and offices in assigned rural areas is just getting underway. An-
other scheme whereby the State Bank of Pakistan (State Bank) will provide
funds for short-term credit facilites to farmers through dealers of important
agricultural inputs is expected to become operational in 1969. In any case,
it will be some time before ADBP can be relieved of its involvement in sea-
sonal lending, a goal which is the declared policy of Government.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN _/
Organization and Management
3.01      ADBP is a wholly Government-owned agricultural credit institution
whose policies and operations are directed by a Government-appointed 7-member
Board of Directors. ADBP has an adequate network of 11 chief regional branches,
115 local branches, and 9 pay offices (disbursement offices not authorized to
make loans).
3.02      As of June 30, 1968, ADBP had over 2,600 officials and employees, of
which 33 and 271 were of the rank of senior and junior officers respectively.
Most of the officers have, at least, a bachelor's degree in commerce, agricul-
ture, economics, or law. Present rates of staff remuneration are much lower
than those existing in private banks or even in public institutions and ADBP
has been experiencing difficulty retaining experienced staff in its employ.
For example, during a period of 15 months to September 30, 1968, a total of
23 officers have left, including 1 regional manager, 7 branch managers, 8
investigators, and 7 accountants to join, in most cases, private banking in-
stitutions. To retain experienced officers, ADBP has recently taken steps
and has further agreed to make its scale of staff pay and benefits reasonably
competitive within the banking industry. (Para. 5.09)
1/   A full discussion of the ADBP is in Annex 1.



-5-
Lending Policies and Procedures
3.03      The declared policy of Government is to involve the ADBP less and
less in short-term operations (loans of up to 18 months) and to concentrate
more of its activities in agricultural development credit (loans of up to
15 years). This would be possible only after the credit cooperative system
has been revitalized and made into a viable and effective system and after
the rural banking and State Bank-backed suppliers' credit schemes (Para.
2.09) have become operational.
3.04      ADBP regulations do not place any ceiling on the amount of loans
t:hat may be granted provided that the purpose of the loan, its collateral
security, and the repayment ability of the borrower Justify the amount sanc-
tioned. In actual practice, however, assessment of projected benefits from
t:he loans (and, therefore, the repayment capacity of the borrower) is less
penetrating, as the security, generally real estate, is given overriding
importance.
3.05      ADBP charges 7% for all loans regardless of maturity, a rate which
is low when compared to existing interest rates in Pakistan and if account
is taken of the fact that ADBP pays 8% interest per annum on certain types
of time deposits (Para. 3.11).
Lending Operations
3.06      Overall lending operations in 1967/68 were 2½ times those of
1964/65. More significant was the 3-fold expansion of medium- and long-term
lending during the same period, with IDA-supported loans accounting for
nearly 45% of the total. On the other hand, short-term lending operations
have been steadily declining as a percentage of total operations: from 34.1%
in 1964/65 to 13.3% in 1966/67, excepting in 1967/68 when a sharp rise was
recorded due to the intensification of the "Grow More Food Campaign" of the
Government for which ADBP is responsible for the credit support.
3.07      In 1967/68, 85% of borrowers were farmers owning 12½ acres of land
or less. They obtained about 40% of the total amount of loans granted.
Sources of Funds
3.08      The lending operations of ADBP are financed by capital contributed
by Government (Rs. 130 million as of October 14, 1968), by borrowings from
the State Bank of Pakistan (State Bank), by funds from Credits 76-PAX and
11:7-PAK and Sweden, and by deposits received from the public.
3.09      Borrowings from the State Bank cost 3% per annum and are payable
orn demand. As ADBP's operations have expanded, outstanding borrowings from
the State Bank have continued to increase: Rs. 342.1 million as of June 30,
1968, compared to Rs. 183.5 million on June 30, 1965.
3.10      Funds from Credit 76-PAK and 117-PAK are disbursed by IDA to the
State Bank for account of Government and relent to ADBP at 4% per annum,
repayable in 20 years, in half yearly installments, including a five-year



- 6 -
grace period. On April 30, 1969, ADBP had used about US$26.4 million (Rs.
125.6 million) of funds from Credit 76-PAK (the undisbursed balance of
us$0.6 million is discussed in Para. 4.02) and about US$3.6 million (Rs. 17.3
million) from Credit 117-PAK.
3.11      Although deposits received have so far contributed only a small
amount to ADBP's lending operations, they show an encouraging trend, increas-
ing from Rs. 13.7 million in June 1966 to Rs. 22.6 million in June 1968. Be-
cause of ADBP's role as a development institution, it is also significant
that time deposits received have increased at a faster rate than current and
savings deposits. ADBP pays the same rate of interest (4½% per annum) paid
by commercial banks for savings deposits (no interest is paid on current
deposits), but pays interest at 1% per annum higher (ranging from 5½% per
annum for 3-month deposits to 8% per annum for deposits with a term of 5
years or over) than commercial banks for time deposits. Increasing interest
rates on medium- and long-term loans would place ADBP in a better position
to raise more funds from private savings.
Results of Operations
3.12      Because gross income rose at a faster rate than total expenses,
ADBP's operating results improved slightly during 1966/67 to 1967/68. Net
income before taxes rose from Rs. 1.9 million in 1965/66 to Rs. 4.7 million
in 1967/68 - remaining, nevertheless, at less than 1% of average loan port-
folio. (Average of year-beginning and year-ending balances of loan port-
folio.) Taxes paid to the Government were about 70% of net income and the
small annual remainders were added to surplus reserves.
Financial Condition
3.13      According to its external auditors' statements, ADBP's net equity
position as of June 30, 1968, is unimpaired. 1/ On that date, its paid-up
capital was Rs. 110 million while surplus reserves were about Rs. 4 million,
or barely 4% of paid-up capital. (Sec. 27 of the Agricultural Development
Bank Ordinance recognizes the need to build ADBP's general surplus reserves
and, therefore, stipulates that a portion from net income be set aside annu-
ally until such reserves equal ADBP's paid-in capital.)
3.14      The financial condition of ADBP could be affected by the large
amount of loans in arrears. Unpaid accounts have been about one-fourth of
amortizations falling due during a current year:
1/   Capital is said to be "impaired" when reduced by accumulated losses.



- 7 -
Amount Fallen Due    Amount Uncollected
Years     During the Year                 % of
Rs. M           Rs. M     Total
1965/66        80.2             18.o      22.4
1966/67        97.2             27.6       28.4
1967/68       111.5             26.3       23.6
On June 30, 1968, the accumulated overdue loan payments to that date were
about Rs. 145 million, or approximately 25% of all loan payments due.   The
large amount of loans in arrears has existed for a long time and ADBP has
been exerting extra efforts to improve collections (e.g., extra bonus for
imnproved collections of field offices). Loan collections have been hampered
by lack of adequate transportation facilities and the fact that the account-
ing system does not classify loans into current and past due, a procedure
whiich would be a definite aid to management. Under the proposed Credit, as-
sxrances have been obtained to remedy these problems (Para. 5.14).
3.15      As of June 30, 1968, ADBP reserves against bad and doubtful accounts
were only Rs. 7.2 mlllion, or about 5% of such accounts. The external audi-
tors of ADBP have recommended reserves of 10% of all overdue accounts which,
i!> taken up, would result in wiping out ADBP's surplus reserves. The recom-
mended amount of reserves, however, is an arbitrary one and not the result,
as it should be, of an analysis of the individual overdue accounts. ADBP's
external auditors should make such analysis and ADBP should provide reserves
to cover possible losses from bad debts as so determined (Para. 5.13).
IV. PROJECT PERFORMANCE UNDER CREDITS 76-PAK AND 117-PAK
Purpose of Credits
4.01      Credit 76-PAK, in the amount of US$27 million, was granted by IDA
in June 1965 to help in the financing of an ADBP lending program of about
US$40 million. Of the total IDA credit, US$10 million was to finance 50% of
the installed cost of tubewells and the remaining US$17 million was to fully
cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of farm machinery to be procured
by farmer-borrowers. The amount allocated for farm machinery was fully dis-
bvrsed in 1967, well ahead of the closing date of the Credit (June 30, 1969)
and, therefore, Government requested further assistance to continue ADBP's
farm mechanization lending program. In July 1968, a second credit (Credit
1.7-PAK) became effective. It provided funds of US$10 million (plus a US$5
million participation by Sweden in the Project) to cover the estimated foreign



- 8 -
exchange requirements of a one-year 1/ lending program: US$11.5 million for.
the acquisition of tractors and other farm machinery, and US$3.5 million for
the purchase of low-lift irrigation power pumps.
Progress of Operations
4.02      Funds for tubewells under Credit 76-PAK had been fully committed
by June 1968 (Annex 2) and are expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1969. Likewise, funds under Credit 117-PAK have been fully committed: ADBP
used the entire amount allocated for low-lift irrigation power pumps to fi-
nance the power pump program of the East Pakistan Agricultural Development
Corporation, while loans for farm machinery took care of the backlog of
loans sanctioned for purchase of tractors and implements existing at the end
of 1967. Funds from Credit 117-PAK are expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1969, the closing date of the Credit.
4.03      All of the tubewell financing and about 96% of the tractor loans
went to, and would go to, farmers in West Pakistan. On the other hand, all
of the loans for power irrigation pumps and power tillers were and are ex-
pected to be granted to East Pakistan farmers. The fact that only a rela-
tively small portion of the two Credits was and is expected to be used in
East Pakistan has several reasons. The predominant size of farms in the
Province does not lend itself to mechanization by tractors. The use of
power tillers is increasing, but since their unit costs are much lower than
those of tractors, the total outlay necessary is small. Likewise, the use
of low-lift power pumps for irrigation depends on the facility with which
small farmers can be organized to make cooperative use of such pumps. Be-
cause of this problem, EPADC adopted a program of providing such pumps for
groups of farmers on a rental basis. EPADC acquired more than 8,000 low-
lift irrigation pumps, generally of the two-cusec capacity under the two
Credits, but again, unit costs of low-lift pumps are lower than those of
tubewells. In view of the possible size of the EPADC program, it is expected
that IDA would assist EPADC directly rather than through ADBP.
Results Under Credit 76-PAK
4.04      ADBP does not keep records which would allow measurement of the
effects of its farm mechanization lending program. Accordingly, a small
sample survey of about 50 farmers who had received loans under Credit 76-PAK
(1966 and early 1967) was made by IDA. The survey was limited to loans
under Credit 76-PAK because Credit 117-PAK became effective only in July
1968, and the effect of the program it is supporting cannot as yet be evalu-
ated. The farms were randomly selected from within three areas in West
Pakistan where a majority of ADBP loans were granted and where farm sizes
ranged from 50 to 100 acres for those with tractor loans and 25 to 50 acres
for those with tubewell loans. Visits were made to each farm in the sample,
and production data were collected on the basis of detailed questionnaires.
1/   Assistance was limited to a lending program of one year because of
lack of IDA funds at the time.



- 9 -
It is necessary for ADBP to measure the effect of its farm mechanization
program periodically, and assurances have been obtained to this effect
(Para. 5.12).
4,05      The small number of farms in the survey and the widely fluctuating
climatic conditions during the last three years (1965-68) make it very diffi
cult to attribute accurately the benefits from tractor or tubewell invest-
ments, particularly since full development had not been reached in most
cases. However, the survey indicated the following trends (for further de-
tails, see Annex 3):
(a) Gross income on farms using tractors or under tubewell
irrigation increased about 3 times on the average.
(b)  The substantial increases in farm income during 1967-68
were partly the result of factors other than those related
to improvements in farm productivity: Pakistan enjoyed very
favorable weather conditions in 1967-66 and price improve-
ments at the farm level were important during the period.
Output price increases were caused, for example, by price
guarantee schemes (particularly for wheat and 'basmati'" 1/
rice). At the same time, important inputs, such as fertil-
izers, pesticides, pump rentals, power, irrigation water,
and farm machinery increased in use at a time when the prices
for these inputs were held lower than actual market prices.
(c) The rapid growth in production was almost always the result
of a number of changes in input levels and not solely due
to the tractor and tubewell investments. However, omitting
other factors, one third of the observed increase in net in-
come on the tubevell farms was estimated to be directly
attributable to the tubewell investment, giving them a finan-
cial rate of return of about 30%. Likewise, in the case of
the tractor farms, on the assumption that one-third of the
observed incremental income was due to the tractor invest-
ment, the financial rate of return would be approximately 55%O
4.o6      The survey also showed that most of the sample farms only utilized
one single implement - the field cultivator. As a result, tractors were en-
gaged in on-farm work only on the average of about 450 hours per year, con-
siderably lower than what may be expected from an efficient use of tractors
in Pakistan. Since most ADBP borrowers are using tractors for the first
time, some time will be required before they learn how to use tractors at
their full potential. Tractors will be used more extensively as farmers are
encouraged to use additional implements and as spare parts become more read-
ily available. The lending program under the Project is designed to streng-
then the demand for implements by providing separate credit facilities for
1/   A fancy variety of rice commanding a substantial premium locally and
in certain Middle East markets.



- 10 -
these inputs (Para. 5.02). However, while larger farms can be assumed to
exploit a tractor's potentials more efficiently, the survey date indicated
that not all farmers, who demand tractors under the presently low price and
favorable interest rate level, are in fact able to realize adequate economic
benefits from such an investment. In the case of farms of less than 75
acres when little or no custom work is undertaken, it is difficult to justify
tractor purchases on economic considerations.
4.07      Machinery dealers and Government officials, as well as farmers,
provided strong evidence that inadequate supplies of tractor spare parts and
implements have caused inefficient use of tractors by even the larger farm-
ers who are in a position to derive real economic benefits from such machin-
ery. This situation has arisen because: (a) the policy for spare parts
under IDA credits provides for simultaneous importation of tractors and spare
parts in fixed ratios which have little relation to actual demand; (b) when
imported not at the same time with tractors, the cost of important spare
parts, especially tires, is very high since they are subject to substantial
import duties and sales taxes and often are imported under very high effec-
tive foreign exchange rates; 1/ (c) inadequate amount of spare parts have
been imported for non-IDA credit tractors. Thus, the non-availability and
high cost of tractor spare parts have resulted in immobilized tractors, re-
duced useful life, and less than optimum use of tractors in Pakistan.
4.o8      The Tariff incidence for tractors is exactly opposite to that of
tractor spare parts (Annex 4). New tractors are relatively inexpensive to
farmers since they are imported duty free and at the low official rupee ex-
change rate. During the last two years, this has led to a strong and unful-
filled demand for tractors, as farmers have realized very high financial
returns on these investments.
V. THE PROJECT
Brief Description
5.01      IDA would give assistance to 2 related sub-projects:
(a) the continuation of the tubewell and farm mechanization
investment program now being financed by ADBP with assis-
tance from 2 previous IDA credits (but emphasizing a more
widespread use of tractor implements); and
1/   Exporters are allowed to retain a part of their export earnings in the
form of "bonus vouchers."  These "bonus vouchers", in the form of cer-
tificates, are purchased by importers at 170 to 180% (in November/
December,1968) of the official exchange rate and are used to obtain
permits to purchase foreign exchange from the State Bank; i.e., the
total cost of imports consists of the cost of the voucher and the cost
of the imported goods at the official rate.



- 11 -
(b) the import of spare parts for tractors financed under IDA
credits, to be supplemented by foreign exchange provided
by Government for other tractor spares.
5.02      The total cost of the Project, together vith the estimated foreign
exchange requirements are detailed as follows:
Estimated Foreign
Project Cost I/     Exchange Cost
No. of            EquiY.               %  of
Items               Units     Rs. M    US$ m       US$ M   Total
a.  Credit Progran
Tubevells                8,00o     90.00   18.90        9.45     50
Tractors                 5,200     80.10   16.82       11.20     67
Tractor Implements      various    28.70    6.03        4.00     66
Pover Tillers, includ-
ing implements         3,000      17.20    3.61        3.00     83
Farm Management
Services                 -         0.36    0.07        0.05     66
Total Investments                 216.36   45.43       27.70     61
b. Tractor Spare Parts
(for IDA tractors)                  10.90    2.30        2.30    100
Total Project Cost                227.26   47.73       30.00     63
1/   Investments are at expected project cost (CIF, levies at 25% of machin-
ery costs, and dealers mark-up). Project cost for spare parts are CIF
value of imports.
5.03      The expected tubewell investments would represent about one-half
the average yearly number estimated as required from the private sector to
meet Third Plan targets (Para. 2.05). The projected tractor investments are
much lower than ADBP's original estimates, since tractor demand would be
less when tractor prices and interest rates become higher (Paras. 5.16 and
5.22), and'when loan applications for tractor purchase are subjected to more
in-depth appraisal (Paras. 5.15 and 5.17).   The Project will also emphasize
the need to expand the use of tractor implements in Pakistan in order to



- 12 -
maximize farming returns from both existing and new tractors. New credit
facilities will be available through ADBP for farmers who solely wish to
acquire tractor implements. To strengthen its appraisal procedures, with
greater emphasis on productivity of proposed investment rather than on col-
lateral requirements, ABDP will set up a technical service unit, headed by
a farm management expert. IDA would provide the foreign exchange cost of
the person appointed to head this unit, should he come from outside Pakistan.
Separate import licenses will be granted to dealers for tractor implements,
which thus can be procured from a wider range of suppliers than under the
existing licensing system. The new technical service units of the ADBP
(Para. 5.11) are expected to advise farmers on the suitability of such imple-
ments and to promote their use. Power tillers have been, and are still being
imported through Japanese credits. The amount for power tillers would repre-
sent investments not otherwise assisted by other credits.
5.04      West Pakistan farmers are expected to make about 95% of the in-
vestments in tubewells, tractors, and tractor implements; cooperatives and
Union Councils in East Pakistan, about 5%. On the other hand, investments
in power tillers would be made entirely in East Pakistan. It is expected
that Rs. 27.1 million, or 13% of total investments would be made in East
Pakistan 1/ (Annex 5).
5.05      The amount for spare parts represents about 10% of the value of
IDA-financed tractors under Credits 76-PAK and 117-PAK. It is being pro-
vided to assist Government in relieving the lack of spare parts which is
causing underutilization of tractors (Para. 4.07). During negotiations,
assurance was obtained that annually, during the life of the Project, foreign
exchange would be allocated for spare parts for each tractor made equal to
at least 10% of the value of all such tractors (IDA and non-IDA) imported
during the preceding 5 years, at the same exchange rate applicable to tractor
and other farm machinery imports.
Financing
5.o6      The total investment cost of Rs. 216.5 million would be financed
from the following sources:
1/   The conditions which limit the expansion in East Pakistan of the Govern-
ment's farm mechanization program are described in Para. 4.03. More-
over, possible agricultural credit projects in East Pakistan (e.g. tea
processing equipment, overhead irrigation for tea plantations, and
fishing vessels) were not ready for appraisal during the visit of the
IDA mission.



- 13 -
Farmers'        ADBP           IDA          Total
Resources     Resources       Credit      Inv. Cost
% of          %  of         % of
Items         Rs. M  Total  Rs. M  Total  Is. M  Total     Rs. M
Tubewells                17.1    19    27.9     31    45.0    50      90.0
Tractors                 15.6    19    11.1     14    53.4    67      80.1
Tractor Implements        5.6    19      4.1    14    19.1    67      28.8
Pover Tillers including
Implements               -     -      2.9     17    14.3    83      17.2
38.3    18    46.o    21   131.8    6i     216.1
Farm Management
Services                 -     -       0.2    33     0.2    66       0.4
Total               38.3    18    46.2     21   132.0    61     216.5
5.07      The proposed IDA credit of Rs. 132.0 million (US$27.7 million)
would finance the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the machinery
and tubevell investments and farm management services. With an additional
easistance of US$2.3 million to cover the spare parts requirements of IDA-
f'inanced tractors in the past (Paras. 5.02 and 5.05), the total IDA credit
would amount; to US$30 million.
5.08      The proposed IDA credit would be made on normal IDA terms to the
Government. As under the first 2 IDA Credits, Government would make funds
for the credit program available to ADBP for a period of 20 years, including
a. 5-year grace period, at 4% interest annually, and at the official rate of
exchange (Government will assume the exchange risk). This would allow ADBP
to use proceeds from repayments of farmers1 loans not otherwise needed to
repay Government (a turnover of funds of about two times), in its general
agricultural lending operations (Annex 6).
Organization and Management
5.09      The present staff of ADBP, which is able and experienced, would
administer the proposed Project. In order to retain its experienced officers
(Para. 3.02), ADBP has undertaken to review annually its scale of staff pay
ad benefits to make it reasonably competitive within the banking industry.
5.10      To effect more substantive appraisals of loan applications (with
emphasis on assessment of a loan applicant's farm mechanization requirements
and the financial feasibility of his farm project), assurance was obtained



- 14 -
for ADBP to hire, in agreement with IDA, a farm management expert who would
be responsible for preparing the bases (in cooperation with the proper Gov-
ernment entities) and the procedures and guidelines for loan appraisals
(Para. 5.15). In addition, the farm management expert would be responsible
for training the appraisal staff in each regional branch office. For this
purpose, IDA would finance the estimated two-year foreign exchange cost, up
to US$50,000, of such an expert should it be considered necessary to appoint
one from outside Pakistan. Assurance was obtained during negotiations that
this appointment would be made by September 30, 1969.
5.11      ADBP borrowers need technical service and advice.   A Technical
Service Unit should be set up to channel agricultural and machinery-use in-
formation available from other sources, or from data gathered from ADBP's
own experience. The Unit would also assist farmers in formulating better
farm plans. Assurance was obtained that such a unit would be set up not
later than December 31, 1969.
5.12      To measure the effects of its farm mechanization lending program,
assurances were obtained that ADBP would conduct periodic surveys (of no
longer than 1 year intervals) of returns and benefits to its farmer-borrowers
under the IDA-assisted projects. ADBP is in a position to conduct such a
survey. It has 2 experienced agricultural economists (employed according to
agreements under Credit 117-PAK) who can be made responsible for the survey.
5.13      As an on-going vehicle for IDA funds, the accurate picture of
ADBP's financial condition is important to IDA (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). Ac-
cordingly, during negotiations, assurances were obtained that the government
Auditor General 1/ would recuire ADBP's external auditors to evaluate all
overdue accounts in order to determine, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing principles and procedures the probable losses from bad and doubtful
accounts. Assurance was also obtained that ADBP would provide reserves for
the estimated losses as recommended by its independent auditors.
5.14      Loan collections could be greatly improved if adequate and ready
transportation facilities were available (Para. 3.14). ADBP has recently
taken steps which will encourage field staff to acquire their own vehicles
which will be used in ADBP operations and ADBP has agreed to explore other
ways of improving field transport facilities. Assurance has also been ob-
tained that ADBP will transfer loans past due for 30 days or more to a past-
due loan account, for better management of loans in arrears (Part. 3.14).
Lending Procedures, Terms, and Criteria
5.15      Loans to farmers would be granted and administered under the prevail-
ing ADBP lending procedures, terms, and criteria. However, it is necessary to
1/   Sec. 28 of the Ordinance which created ADBP states that the Auditor-
General shall have the power to give the "directions" to ADBP's exter-
nal auditors as to the extent and method of their audit.



- 15 -
strengthen ADBP's appraisal procedures (Para. 3.04) so that project returns
and benefits would be used as prime criteria for assigning loan priority among
those which have offered satisfactory security. Also, there is need for faci-
litating and standardizing appraisal work by adopting uniform guidelines and
collecting relevant appraisal data (Annex 7). Assurances have been obtained
to effect the foregoing.
5.:L6     To improve the allocation of loanable funds and of scarce foreign
exchange and -to bring interest rates more in line with those charged by other
Pakistan credit institutions, it has been agreed that interest collected on
medium- and long-term loans would be raised from its present low rate of 7%
(Para. 3.05) to 8% per annum; in addition, ADBP is also considering intro-
ducing a commitment charge at the rate of 1% per annum on undisbursed loan
baLances. This will also help strengthen ADBP's financial condition: it
would allow ADBP to accumulate annually, on the average, surplus reserves of
about 3% of paid-in capital (Annexes 8, 9, and 10). Also, assurances have
been obtained that ADBP will require borrowers in West Pakistan to provide at
least 20% of the project's cost, while in East Pakistan where more difficult
economic conditions prevail, borrowers will not be required to provide any
contribution except for those buying tractors and tractor implements (i.e. the
larger farmers) who will be required to provide 10% of the project cost.
(Para. 5.16).
5.:17     Assurances were obtained that in the case of loans for the purchase
of tractors:
(a)  no loan would be made unless the farm project already
has adequate water supply (Para. 2.08);
(b)  no loan would be granted to a farmer or farming entity
cultivating less than 75 acres of farm unless it can
be clearly demonstrated that the tractor would, in ad-
dition, be used for farm custom work (Para. 4.06).
(c)  loans would be given to an entrepreneur whose main
business is doing farm custom work with farm machi-
nery; and
(d)  no loan would be made unless the borrower agrees to
purchase the implements considered necessary by an
ADBP appraisal (Para. 4.06).
Disbursements
5.18      Disbursements to farmers under the proposed Credit would be for 2
years. Allowing for "slippage," IDA reimbursement would cover about 2½ years.
Against statements and documents which IDA may require, reimbursement would
be: (a) 50% of the project cost for the acquisition and installation of tube-
wells, and (b) the CIF cost of tractors, tractor implements, and power tillers.
Likewise, IDA would disburse to Government the amount allocated for spare parts
upon satisfactory proof that Government has complied with its commitment to



- 16 -
allocate to each tractor dealer foreign exchange for the importation of tractor
spare parts equal to at least 10% of the value of tractors imported by such
dealers during the preceding 5 years (Para. 5.05).
Procurement
5.19      As in the case of Credits 76-PAK and 117-PAK, the scale of indivi-
dual loans to farmers under the proposed Project is too small to make inter-
national competitive bidding practicable. Also, as in the first two Credits,
farm machinery to be procured would be supplied by dealers authorized by Go-
vernment. Under the terms of Credit 76-PAK, the Government committed itself
to ensure that authorized dealers will be able to provide adequate service and
repair facilities. An adequate number of well known international manufactu-
rers of agricultural machinery and equipment are represented in Pakistan and
are required, and have provided, adequate after-sales service (not counting,
of course, difficulties arising out of a shortage of spare parts (Paras. 4.07).
Several firms also provide training in the operation and maintenance of farm
machinery. Installations of tubewells would be done by local contractors from
imported and locally manufactured parts.
5.20      In order to ensure that the issue of licenses for the importation of
different makes of equipment would be in line with farmers' demand, it was
agreed during negotiations that the allocation of import licenses for each
make of farm machinery would be in accordance with the demand for each parti-
cular make, as reflected in loans approved by ADBP.
5.21      Apart from applications from farmers, ADBP considers it possible that
one of two individual applications for loans of the equivalent of US$100,000
or more may be received from larger entrepreneurs engaged in farm custom work.
In such circumstances ADBP has agreed to submit such applications to IDA for
prior approval and IDA has reserved the right to require ADBP to apply inter-
national competitive bidding where the foreign exchange equivalent exceeds
US$100,000 and where the number of items of machinery to be procured made
this practicable.
5.22      Coincident with the increase of interest rates on medium- and long-
term loans to bring demand for tractors into line with the proposed level of
supply (Para. 5.03), it is also important to impose tariffs and levies on
tractor imports to correct their present relatively inexpensive cost to far-
mers (Para. 4.08). The relatively low domestic price of tractors in Pakistan
stems mainly from the fact that they are imported at an overvalued exchange
rate. Various measures to increase the domestic cost of tractors to more eco-
nomically justifiable levels were considered: (a) tractors might be imported
on bonus vouchers (Para. 4.07); (b) tractors might be imported under the cash-
cum-bonus system (half at the official exchange rate and half with bonus vou-
chers); or (c) tariffs or other taxes could be imposed so as to offset some
of the price distortion caused by the official exchange rate. Measures (a)
and (b) are unsuitable because the resulting price increase would be so large
(at least 90%) that the economic demand for tractor investments would be jeo-
pardized. Measure (c) is favored because it would bring tractor prices closer
into line with most industrial machineries which are now subject to import du-
ties of about 35%. Spare parts and equipment would also be treated in the



- 17 -
same manner. During negotiations, it was agreed that, before the credit be-,
comes effective, Government would take measures which would have the effect of
increasing the present domestic prices for farm machinery and equipment by 25%.
5.23      To remedy the present lack of tractor spare parts (Paras. 4.07 and
5.05) and implements, assurance was obtained that the same levies and taxes
on tractor imports would be applied on tractor spare parts and implements,
regardless of whether the spare parts and implements are imported at the same
time as the tractors or not.
VI. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
6.01      About 18,000 farms would benefit from the lending program. Current-
ly, wheat and rice, and also some cotton, are the major crops grown on farms
receiving loans for tractors, power tillers and tubewells, but the same types
of farms could easily change to other crops should changes in effective demand
occur. Under present farm price incentives expected increases in production
resulting from the Project would be as follows:
Wheat      Rice      Cotton
7000' Metric Tons)
Total Production in 1967-68 . .        6,900     12,500      500
Average Annual Increase Due to
P:roject in Production Years:
1 -7 . . . . . . . .            85         75      2.8
8 -15 . . .   ...............   60         60      0.9
6.02      These estimates are based on production patterns existing on the
sample farms in 1967-68 and on yield projections which are in accordance with
the IBRD's Indus Basin Study. Compared with the 1967-68 crop production, the
Project would increase total wheat output by 1.2%, rice by 0.6% and cotton by
o.6%.
6.03      Except for cotton and "basmati" rice the crops generally produced by
farmers whose farms are irrigated and tractor-mechanized are for domestic con-
sumption. The Government is aware that adequate marketing facilities are es-
sential for the success of the production program. In 1968, support prices
were established for several major food crops, including wheat, the various
rice varieties, and paddy. However, Government purchases were limited by the
shortage of storage and handling capacity.
6.o4      Because of the big expansion in crop production in 1968 and good
crop prospects in West Pakistan, it is possible that wheat prices may weaken.
The Government's policy is to prevent a fall in prices belo-4 the support levels.
It has authorized purchases of wheat up to 0.6 million tons for Government
stock, and commercial bankers are authorized to purchase middlemen and whole-
salers., Government has lifted the ban on pledging wheat stocks with banks.



- 18 -
Almost 200 wheat purchase centers are being set up by Government throughout
West Pakistan in 1968-69. The recently established Directorate of Agricultu-
ral Marketing in West Pakistan is being strengthened and efforts are underway
to introduce proper grading of agricultural produce. East Pakistan has begun
a program to construct at least two licensed warehouses in each village. Fur-
ther efforts in marketing will still be required particularly in relation un-
dertaken to conduct a study of storage problems for farm crops and has obtain-
ed technical assistance from external sources for this purpose. ADBP is also
prepared to expand local currency financing to farmers for storage facilities.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would have a significant impact on the incomes of far-
mers who would borrow from ADBP under the proposed lending program (for a more
detailed discussion see Annex 3). The incremental net income resulting from
the expansion of acreage harvested caused by a tubewell investment would be
around Rs. 2,875 for a farm of about 40 acres. This would mean a financial
rate of return to the farmers of about 30%.
7.02      Power tillers would almost exclusively be used in East Pakistan,
where the average farm size is considerably smaller than in the West. In
addition to powering usual farming implements (rotary tilling blade, plow,
ridger and field leveler), they can also be used to run pumps, threshers,
and small trailers. The demand for this input has grown rapidly in the pro-
vince. Based on cost savings studies made by the East Pakistan Agricultural
Development Corporation, the financial rate of return for power tillers under
the Project would be about 20%.
7.03      The financial benefits to farmers acquiring tractors derive from
more timely and thorough land preparation, increased cropping intensity from
acreage freed from fodder crops, and from cost savings on labor input per
acre. Under these conditions the financial returns to the farmers were found
to be about 55% of investment. Thus even at relatively inefficient levels of
tractor utilization (i.e. only one implement) large financial benefits accrued
to farmers who undertook tractor mechanization under existing prices for trac-
tors.
7.04      On the basis of existing cropping patterns, the Project would in-
crease food grain production by 160,000 tons per year and raise annual cotton
production by 2,800 tons. Assuming that the incremental food grain output
would substitute for similar imports and that these may be valued at current
CIF prices, the net incremental output would represent a foreign exchange
savings (at the current exchange rate) of more than US$15 million a year.
This would still be valid for the overall economy should grain surpluses arise
in West Pakistan, since a continuing large food deficit is anticipated for
East Pakistan.
7.05      Adjusting for taxes and subsidies related to tubewell investments,
and using the shadow price of RS. 9.5 to US$1 for foreign exchange assumed for
Pakistan under the Indus Basin Study, the economic rate of return is about 28%
for this type of input.



7.o6      The economic benefits of tractor loans derive primarily from the
incremental production expected from higher cropping intensity on farms which
acquire tractors and from production of marketable crops on acreage previously
under fodder crops consumed by draft animals. Under the existing structure
of prices at the farm level, tractors are in very high demAnd. At present,
tractors are available on a first-come first-served basis, rather than on a
qualitative assessment of the efficiency of the farmer. As a result, the
average annual level of on-farm tractor use has been even lower than what
might be caused by a scarcity of spare parts and implements, or by farmers'
lack of familiarity with such machinery. A higher domestic price on tractors
must be introduced in order to improve investment allocations. Since the
effective exchange rates under the bonus voucher system are very high, a more
moderate price increase may be achieved through tariffs or tax measures. Al-
though under the terms of the Agreements, the domestic price of tractors would
increase by 25%, the price would not be so high as to discourage their purchase
by farmers who could make good economic use of them.   At the same time, this
would bring about more uniform pricing policies relative to industrial machin-
ery imports (see Annex 4).
7.07      On average, labor costs per cropped acre declined by about 40%.
Because of the higher cropping intensity, the actual labor displacement per
farm was only marginal, since the reduction in labor during the ploughing
season is almost offset by the increase in labor during harvesting season
due to the increased output per farm. The sample survey data showed that the
net difference in labor inputs per farm would only marginally reduce the eco-
nomic rate of return for tractors. Taking into account the labor cost savings
per farm, this return would be about 15 percent; without considering them as
part of the economic benefits, it would be about 12%. The latter assumed that
no secondary employment effects arise from tractor mechanization, such as in-
creases in demand for labor due to tractor repair and service facilities as
well as additional technical services. Additional employment could be expect-
ed at this level. However, in order to project the economic benefits conser-
vatively, these considerations have not been taken into account and, therefore,
the 12% economic rate of return for tractor investments under the Project is
a conservative estimate. On the assumption that the recommendations for more
effective use of tractors are implemented (Para. 5.15 and 5.17), it is reasona-
ble to assume that the economic benefits would be higher than indicated above.
The extent to which this would be forthcoming, is difficult to quantify and has
not been included in the above rate of return calculations.
7.o8      For the whole Project, without allowing for tractor spares the over-
all rate of return would then be 18%.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      The proposed Project is sound and economically justified.   The return
on investment is satisfactory to the individual farmers and to the economy
eLs a whole.



- 20 -
8.02      ADBP is experienced and able to administer the proposed Project and
has agreed to take steps which will further strengthen its operation by im-
proving appraisal and supervision techniques, the dissemination of technical
information to farmers and by other means.
8.03      A number of assurances to ensure satisfactory project performance
have been obtained during negotiations, of which the principal ones are:
(i) the Government's agreement to increase the present
domestic price of farm machinery by 25%;
(ii) ADBP's agreement to increase its lending rate on
medium- and long-term loans from 7% to 8%; and
(iii) agreement to obtain farmers' contributions of at
least 20% of all farm projects under the Credit
in West Pakistan and of 10% for tractors and
tractor implements in East Pakistan.
8.o4      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$ 30 million.
June 12, 1969



ANNEX 1
P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), established
in February 1961, was the result of a merger between the Agricultural De-
velopment Finance Corporation and the Agricultural Bank of Pakistan, as
*recommended by a credit inquiry commission which stuclied the over-all credit
situation in Pakistan about that time. ADBP is wholly Government-owned (the
Central Governments hold 90% and the Provincial Governments 5% each of its
capital) and its paid-in capital on October 14, 1968, was Rs. 130 million.
2.        ADBP is governed by the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance
of 1961.  Its policies and operations are supervised by a Board of Directors
of seven members: two members representing the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Finance of the Central Government; two members representing
the Ministry of Agriculture of each Provincial Government; two members from
the public agricultural sector appointed by the Central Government; and the
'Chairman, likewise appointed by the Central Government, who is also ADBP's
principal executive officer.
3.        The head office of ADBP is in Karachi.  As of June 30, 1968, it
had 11 chief regional branches (5 in East Pakistan and 6 in West Pakistan);
115 local branches (53 in East Pakistan and 62 in West Pakistan; and 9 pay
offices (1 in East Pakistan and 8 in West Pakistan). This network of
branches and offices is adequate to cope with the present and foreseeable
volume of operations. In addition, ADBP plans to open 11 new branches in
1968-69 (5 in East Pakistan and 6 in West Pakistan).
.4.       Each of the chief regional branches is served by a local advisory
committee consisting of 3 officials of the Provincial Government concerned,
3 from the public sector representing the agricultural interests of the
region, and the regional manager which acts as the Chairman of the Committee.
Members of the committees are appointed by ADBP with the approval of Govern-
ment and hold office for 2 years. The Committees' responsibility is mainly
to advise on general policies and procedures and on particular loan appli-
cations.






ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        As of June 30, 1968, ADBP had 2,647 officials and employees of
whiich 33 and 271 were of the rank of senior and junior officers respectively.
A significant number of employees have a Bachelor or Masters Degree in Com-
merce, Agriculture, Economics, or Law. Those who have none are mostly em-
ployees taken over from the two defunct organizations which merged into the
ADBP (Para. 1) and employees recruited at ADBP's inception when due to urgent
staffing necessity, experienced candidates were welcome.
6.        Present rates of remuneration of ADBP employees are reputedly much
lower than those existing in private banks or even in public institutions.
This is borne out by the fact that ADBP has been experiencing difficulty in
retaining experienced staff in its employ. During a period of 15 months to
September 30, 1968, a total of 23 officers have left, including 1 regional
manager, 7 branch managers, 8 investigators, and 7 accountants. Since its
establishment in 1961, 155 employees have left.
lending Policies and Procedures
7.        ADBP grants loans to individuals (landowners, sharecroppers, ten-
ants) and public or private corporations engaged in agriculture,A/ cottage
industries,./ and storage, processing and marketing of agricultural products.
Loans may be for short-term (up to 18 months--for seasonal farming expenses),
medium-term (up to 5 years--purchase and/or installation of equipment and
machinery, purchase of bullocks, etc.), and long-term (5 to 15 years--land
improvement, irrigation, etc.). No loan may be given for the purchase of
land.
8.        There is no ceiling as to the amount of loans that may be granted,
provided that the purpose of the loan, the loan guarantee, and the repayment
ability of the borrower justify the amount sanctioned.  In actual practice,
however, assessment of projected benefits from the loan (and, therefore, the
repayment capacity of the prospective borrower) is less penetrating as the
security, gun2erally real estate, is of overriding importance. ADBP has
rigid standards for appraising land values and fixed percentages as to the
loan that can be made on the basis of such values. Improvements that will
be made or constructed, or equipment that will be purchased because of an
ADBP loan are not considered when computing the value of security.
9.        ADBP charges 7% per annum on all its loans which is low compared
to the rates charged by other financial institutions (Appendix 1-1) and when
A,ccount is taken that AD,BP3 pay 8% per. annun on cortain time doposits (Para. 19
In addition, loan applicants pay application fees ran7ing from Rs. It for loan3
to Rs. 1,000 to 1% of the loan amount for loans over Rs. 7,500.
1/ Includes general agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry, and seri-
culture.
2/ Any industry which is carried on wholly or mainly by members of a family,
either as a Whole or part-time occupation, or by a group of persons w!ho
have farmed themselves into a cooperative society.






AIRIEX I
Page 3
10.       Branch officers have adequate authority to approve loans.   Loan
disbursement procedures are satisfactory.  Loans are disbursed in kind
whenever practicable and cash payments are nor7ally made after production
of vouchers in support of expenditure incurred by the borrower. Verifica-
tions are made in order to ensure that loan proceeds are properly utilized,
Lending Operations
11.       The rapid expansion in loans made by ADBP (Appendix 1-2) is sum-
marized in the following table:l/
Short-Term     Medium-Term      Long-Term
Loans           Loans           Loans        Total Loans
Fiscal            % to            % to            % to            % to
Year     Rs. M  1960-61 Rs. M   ig60-61 Rs. M   196o-61 Rs. M   1960-61
1960-61   18.9    100.0   40.0    100.0   18.7    100.0    77.6   100.0
196h-65   30.7    162.4   33.0     82.5   26.2   lL40.1    89.9   115.9
1965-66   31.7    167.7   33.2     83.0   75.7    481.2   il4.6   182.5
1966-67   32.0    169.3   58.4    146.0 105.7     565.2   196.1   252.7
1967-68   68.6    363.0   39.0     97.5 112.4     601.1   220.0   283.5
The sharp rise in medium- and long-term lending operations beginning in
1965-66 is due in large measure to ADBP's farm mechanization lending pro-
gram assisted by Credit 76-PAK beginning in the same fiscal year (amounts
in Rs. million):
Loans Sanctioned Under            Total
Credit 76-PAK2/               Medium-       Total
% to Med.                  & Long-Term     Loans
Fiscal              & Long-Term      % to         Loans       Sanctioned
Year      Amount      Loans      Total Loans   Sanctioned
1965-66     73.4       67.4          51.8         108.9         141.6
1966-67     89.4       54.5          45.5         164.l         196.1
1967-68     27.6       18.2          12.5         )51.4        220.0
1/  In terms of loans sanctioned.
2/ Credit 117-PAK (Second IA Credit) became effective only in July 1968.






AUIJEX J
Page I
12.       Reflecting the avowed policy of Government to gradually shift
the operations of ADBP to developmental lending (Para. 3.03 of main text
of appraisal report), short-term lending operations of ADBP have declined
as a percentage of total cperations:lV
Short-Term Loans
Fiscal                  %  to      Total Loans
Year        Rs. M      Total         Rs. M
1961-62      43.8       46.1           95.0
1962-63      29.3       36.3           80.7
1963-64      28.7       30.1           95.5
1964-65      30.7       34.1           89.9
1965-66      31.7       22.4         11.6
1966-67      32.1       13.3          196.1
1967-68      68.5       31.2          220.0
The sharp rise in short-term operations during 1967-68 was due to the in-
tensification of the "Grow More Food Campaign" of the Government wherein
ADBP is responsible for the cred.it support.
13.       Short-term loans were generally for the purchase of seeds and
fertilizers, acquisition of bullock carts, and the seasonal needs of tea
farms. Medium-term loans were mainly for the purchase of draft animals
and the acquisition and installation of low-lift irrigation pumps. Long-
term loans were for the purchase and/or installation of farm machinery
(mainly tractors) and tubewells (See Appendix 1-3 for details).
14.       Whereas in 1966-67 75% of all borrowers were farmers having 12½
acres of land or less (they obtained about 25% of the total amount of loans
granted), farmers in this category represented over 85% of the borrowers,
obtaining about 40% of the total amount of loans granted by ADBP during
1967/68 (AIppendix 1-4):
1/ In terms of loans sanctioned..






ANNEX 1.
Page 5
LOANS GRANTED ACCORDING TO LANDHOLDING
(In Percent)
1966/67               1967/68
Number     Amount     Number     Amount
Landless. . . . . . .      12.3       2.7        27.0      10.0
Up to 3 Acres . . . .      21.3       4.7        24.5       5.7
Up to 12-1/2 Acres. .      41.5      18.1        33.9      24.0
Up to 50 Acres. . . .      19.1      38.5        10.9      28.5
More Than 50 Acres. .       5.8      36.0         3.7      31.8
Total           100.0     100.0       100.0     100.0
Sources of Funds
15.       ADBP's operations are financed by the capital contributions of
Government, by borrowings from the State Bank of Pakistan (State Bank), by
borrowings from the Government of IDA funds, and from deposits from the
public.
16.       In accordance with agreements under Credit 117-PAK to raise the
paid-in capital of ADBP by Rs. 75 million by June 30, 1970,1/ Government
has paid-in an additional Rs. 30 million to bring the paid-in capital of
ADBP as of October 1i, 1968 to Rs. 130 million.
17.       Borrowings from the State Bank which are guaranteed by the Govern-
ment cost ADBP 3% per annum. They are payable on demand but to date, ADBP
has never repaid a single amount. On the contrary, total borrowings from
the State Bank have continued to increase as ADBP's operations have expanded.
The outstanding indebtedness of ADBP to the State Bank is shown in the fol-
lowing tabulation:
June 30, 1965     -     Rs. 183.5 Million
June 30, 1966     -     Rs. 235.8 Million
June 30, 1967     -     Rs. 292.0 Million
June 30, 1968     -     Rs. 342.1 Million
1/ Actually, in three installments:   Rs. 10 million in 1967/68; Rs. 30
million in 1968/69; and Rs. 35 million in 1969/70.






ANNEX I
Pag-i!,
18.      i-'ulnds from Credits 76-PAK and 117-PAK are disbursed by IDA to
the State Bank for account of Government and relenti! to ADBP at 4% per
annum, repayable in 20 years, in half-yearly installments, including a
5-year grace period. On June 30, 1968, outstanding liability on IDA funds
was Rs. 117.3 million (US$24.6 million),!/ all of it from Credit 76-PAK
as Credit 117-PAK became effective only in July 1968. The first install-
ment payable to the Government on borrowings under Credit 76-PAK is due
on October 1, 1970.
1i.       Although deposits received from the public (current, savings,
and time) still contribute a relatively insignificant amount to the total
lending cperations of ADBP, nevertheless, deposits received show an en-
couraging trend: they have increased from Rs. 13.7 million in June 1966,
to Rs. 17.0 million in June 1967, to Rs. 22.6 million in June 1968. It is
significant also that time deposits received. have increased at a faster
rate than current and savings deposits. To further exploit this particular
source, ADBP was allowed in August 1968 to pay interest on time deposits
1% higher than those paid by commercial banks.
Results of Operations
20.       Mhe results of operations of ADB? during the fiscal year 1965-66
to 1967-68 are shown in Appendix 1-5 and are summarized hereunder:
Net Income              Net Income
Total    Total      Before    Provision   Available
Category      Income Expenses      Taxes     for Taxes  for Reserves
1965-66
Amount (Rs. M). .    21.4    19.5       1.9         1.3         o.6
% to Total Income   100.0    91.1       8.9        6.1         2.8
% to Average Earn-
ing Assets3/. .     6.5     5.9       0.6        0.4         0.2
1966-67
Amount (Rs. M). .    27.5    24.7       2.8         1.9         0.9
% to Total Income   100.0    89.8      10.2         6.9         3.3
% to Average Earn-
ing Assets3/        6.6     5.9       0.7         0.5         0.2
1967-68
Amount (Rs. M). .    36.3    31.6       4.7         3.3         1.4
% to Total Income   100.0    87.1      12.9         9.1         3.8
% to Average Earn-
ing Assets3/        6.8     5.9       0.9         0.6         0.3
1/ Actually, ADBP first makes the loans to farmers and is then reimbursed
from IDA funds.
2/ The balance of US$2.4 remaining from Credit 76-PAK is available only fov
tubewells as the amount for farm machineries has been disbursed ahead
of schedule.
3/ Average of investment and loan portfolios at the beginning and end of y:&i.






ANNEX 1
Page 7
ADBP's operating results have slightly improved: total income has improved
as a percentage of average earning assets and total expenses have decreased
as a percentage of total income. However, in spite of these improvements,
the amount of net income that has been set aside as surplus reserves is
still small because of large income taxes that ADBP is required to pay under
the law.
21.       Total income of ADBP has grown, as may be expected, as lending
operations have expanded. The main source of income is interest on loans
which in 1967-68 represented about 96% of total income. Recorded interest
income, however, includes interest receivable on loans past due wherein the
risk of non-collection is relatively great. While ADBP's procedure is ad-
missible accounting practice, yet, it would be necessary to provide reserves
based on a conservative estimate of losses that may arise from these accounts.
22.       The main items of expenses of ADBP are staff salaries and allow-
ances and interest paid on borrowed money and on deposits received. Salaries
and allowances have increased from Rs. 7.3 million in 1965-66 to Rs. 10.4
million in 1967-68 or at an average of 12% per year. The rise is due to thle
increase in the number of ADBP employees rather than increases in the basic
salaries which remain low. Salaries and allowances, however, have decreased
as a percentage of total expenses: from 46% in 1964-65 to 32% in 1967-68.
As a percentage of average earning assets, they have decreased from 2.68% in
1964-65 to 1.94% in 1967-68.
23.       The following is a comparative table showing interest paid by ADEP
during various periods on money borrowed and on deposits received:
1964-65       1965-66       1966-67       1967-68
Rs. M    %    Rs. M    %    Rs. M    %    Rs. M    %
State Bank Advances   5.9    95.2   7.7    89.0   8.9    77.0  10.2    66.6
IDA Credit. . . . .    -       -    0.2     2.1   1.8    15.9   4.1    26.7
Debentures. . . . .    -       -    0.3     3.4   0.3     2.6   0.3     1.9
On Borrowings   5.9    95.2   8.2    94.5  11.0    95.5  14.6    95.2
Deposits. . . . . .   0.3     4.8   0.5     5.5   0.5     4.5   0.7     4.8
Total           6.2   100.0   8.7   100.0  11.5   100.0  15.3   100.0
As a percentage of earning assets, interest expense increased from 2.25% in
1964-65 to 2.86%, largely because of the on-lending cost of IDA funds.






ANNEX 1
Paged
Financial (Condition
24.       The audited statementsl/ of ADBP show that; it is in fairly good
financial condition as of June 30, 1968. As per books, the net equity
position of ADBP consisted of paid-in capital of Rs. 110 million and sur-
plus reserves of about Rs. 4 million (Appendix 1-6).
25.       The financial condition of ADBP could be affected by the large
amount of loans in arrears. As of June 30, 1968, the amount of overdue
loan payments was about Rs. 145 million or approximately 25% of loan pay-
ments due to a condition which has existed in the past (Appendix 1-7).
Against loan payments overdue, ADBP has provided reserves against bad and
doubtful accounts of Rs. 7.2 million or about 5% of such accounts. The
independent auditors of the ADBP have recommended reserves of 10% of all
overdue accounts which, if provided, would result in wiping out ADBP's
surplus reserves.
26.       Because 62% (as of June 30, 1968) of loans past due are secured
by mortgages and the fact that nearly 25% of loans against hypotheticated
crops are overdue, the conclusion is inescapable that the low rates of
collection is as much the consequence of an overestimation of the yearly
repayment ability of the borrowers, as the result of insufficient collec-
tion measures.
1/ As required by law, the Central Government appoints two external audi-
tors of the ADBP from private practitioners, one each from East and
WTest Pakistan.






APPEND7 5 _1
P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
INTEREST RATES IN PAKISTAN
Interest Rates in General
1.        The following table shows how interest rates, in general, have
risen during 1965/66 to 1967/68 (shown as a percentage of total loan
portfolio as of dates indicated):2/
Interest Range       June 30, 1966       June 30, 1968
Below   6.0C0%           22.0%               20.0%
6.00 to 7.00%            33.7%               23.5%
7.25 to 8.00%            31.6%               23.3%
Above   8.00%            12.7%                33.2%
100.0%              100.0%
While even in 1965/66, more than 40% of the loans outstanding were already
paying interest at more than 7% per annum, noteworthy is the fact that in
1967/68, this proportion increased to more than one-half of the total;
moreover, one-third of the total loans were at more than 8% per annum.
2.        The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan and the Pakistan In-
dustrial Credit and Investment Corporation (wherein IFC has equity invest-
ment) now charge 8½g to 9% per annum for medium- and long-term loans.
1/ Source: State Bank of Pakistan - Banking Statistics of Pakistan 1965/('>
and Statistics on Scheduled Banks in Pakistan, June 1968.






APPENDIX 1-1
Page 2
Interest Rates on Agricultural Loans
3.        The interest rates charged by scheduled banksl/ in Pakistan for
all types of agricultural loans are shown by the following tabulation (as
of June 30, 1968:2/
Interest             % to Total
Portfolio
Below - 6.00%              45.4
6.00  - 7.00%              15.5
7.25  - 8.00%              12.0
Above - 8.00%              24.3
9.25  - 11.50%              2.8
100.0
It can readily be seen that a significant amount (almost 40%) of loans to
agriculture have been granted at 8.25 - 9.00% interest per annum. Ad.di-
tionally, it must be remembered that loans by scheduled banks (other than
ADBP) are almost all for short-term and, therefore would, no doubt be much
higher on medium- and long-term loans (if they were given at all in signi-
ficant volume) to compensate for the greater risks of losses on possible
non-payment of loans and of currency depreciation in the long run.
4.        Interest rates charged by cooperatives (which operate in rural
areas among small farmers) have risen during 1965 and 19662/ (shown as a
percentage of total loan portfolio as of dates indicated:
Interest Range       Dec. 31, 1965       Dec. 31, 1966
Below - 6.00%             11.6%               16.0%
6.00 to 7.00%             25.6%               14.6%
7.25 to 8.00%             23.9%               23.2%
Above   8.00%             38.9%               46.2%
100.0%              100.0%
Cooperatives now charge from 9-11% per annum for medium- and long-term loans.
The Comilla-type cooperatives in East Pakistan collect an effective interest
rate of 15% per annum.
1/ Excluding ADBP.
2/ Source: State Bank - Statistics on Scheduled Banks in Pakistan, June,
1968.
3/ These are the latest compiled data available. Source: State Bank of
Pakistan Banking Statistics of Pakistan 1.965/66 and 1966/67.






P1I K I 9 T A N
THIRD CRJUIT FUR TEX lCBRICLltRAL DBVN. PYr!T A1K
LOANB SUiCTIONX  BY ADB SI9C  START OF OPGTIONS
1960/61             1961/62              1962/63             1963/6              196/65                16566                1    /67              1967/68
RR I 00     %       RBbO6OO      S       Rs6         s       Rs1o I              R00CR %                                                                      7.oO fiR100 %REO 
Sha't-Term Loau :
ia8t paidatan....    11,017      14.2     31,107     32.8     23,563     29.2     23,637      24.8     2h,hI54    27.2      25,191      17.8      24,730     12.6       40,101     18.3
West Pakiatan..          8       10.2     12,680    _D.3       5,707      7.1       5._28      5.3      6,256      6.9     6.487         4.6    7.325     _27           28,427     12.9
TOtal   18   9  24.IL          a3787     jI.       29.270    _6.       28.695    _3&0l  30.    71      3.1    1 ,   678       22.4       .0       3         6.52        31.2
MadiLum-Tre Loans:
KaJt Paklitan ...    29,515      38.0     11,592     12.2     13,560     16.8     15,937      16.7     15,h5h     17.2      19,187      13.6      44,038     22.5       28,259     12.8
West PakiJtat ...     10,456     13.5     12.163     12.8     1-2585     15.6      17,237     18.0     17,S9L     19.6      14,046    9    .    9 14.329       T.3      10,731     J. 
Total     39.97       51.5     23_755        o 25.0  26 5     34       33.17t      34.7     33,o48     36.8      33,233      23.5      58,367     29.8       38,990     17.7
IOM-Tn 
bEat Pakistan...         546      0.7      1,789      1.9      1,1L6.     1.h         750      0.8      3,268      3.6        2,59i1     1.8       7,187       3.7      i,11k      6.h
West Pski.tar_ .............  18,161  23.4  25.624   27-0     2L.100      29-9     32,908     34.4     22.886     25.5       74,o66     52.3      96.510      50.2      98.321     44.7
Total     18,707      24.1     27.413     28.9     25,261     31.3     33,658      35.2     26,14      29.1      76,657      54.1     105,697     53.9     312.435      5.1 *
Orand Total      77.578    100.0     91i,9 5   100.0               100.0       .        10.0      89,912    100.0                                      100.0   D19.95:3 o i
_                                _                                          =1j5M  100.0  196 119  3  10D.O






P A IIS8T In
THCRI) CREDIT FOR THIR A02ICDLTML DWE.OflIT BAI
STATWCS CF TOAM     =M3325  AOMDZEO TO PIEflBX 07F 113 ILX
QIRqees b  ss
1966/65                                   i?65f66                                    196W67                                      1967/68
bagt       That                %Tar       baLt        ibft                  To       ilat        Vast                S    To     But        What                S -To
PNkioftan   Rklstaa     Total.   Total    Pekdstan    Pakistan    Total     Total    Fakistban   Pakitatn    Total.    Total.    pakists    Pakistan     Total    Total
bhet-Tn    tan
Seees..d                s ....    3,761      2,785      6,52,6     8.5      34168      2,591       5,759     5.3       3,1.8         827       s.,309    2.9      1,605        6,250      8,055     14.
Prt±l   l     ±sera                 2214     1,128      1,352     1.7         203      1, 486      1,690      1.5       1463       14,2493    14,12      3.2      2,620       17,225     13,81.    11..
Ballock Ca        rte:            2.773         35      2,80      3.7       2,721         38       2,T59     2.5       1.,458         93      1,551      LI1         965           2       967      0.6
Hire of BuflcC amd P3.OoS         14,457        37      4s,493     5.8      3,T59        132       3,89       3.6      3,204s         3.1&    3,238      2.2      1,757         -         1,757     1.0
Labor arzges. .......             1,631        1.2      2,053     2.7         831        556       1,387      1.3        766         1L67       933      0.6      .1,312         127      1,239     0.8
Toa (Seaaoni).J.)  .....           4.377      -         4,3T7      5.7      5,629        --        5,629      5.1      9,310         -9,310              6.3        -         11,075     11,07%     6.5
Omantry  auts. ..   ..    .-                                      -         1,777       -           ,777      1.6      1,281                  1,280.     LU         607         -           607     0.4
Tuaotcas and Attaebumots                                                                 183         183     0.2          4,9        880        929      0.6         58          292        350     0.2
Fum   TiLlls and Attamumta         --                             ----                                       -----                                                   70         -           70      T
Tubewall.... . . . . .- . .                                                                                                          -.-.-43.                                  -            13      T
Otilrs. ....a ....                  .6         686A§    3.5        14.9     3.51.0       78h       4,.29I     3.9        96           389.!   1,5        0.8         62646                i.9       0.6
Total      20.288                2512381   33.0      21.59       Ia77      27L368     25.0q     20.978       6.639    STL61I      1.7      20.6         2k60       45s302    26.5
balm-Tan teeas:
Levaling-Jangle Clearamoe           333      1,296      1,631      2.1        361      1,158       1,519      1.1.     1,162          853     2,033      Lb4        705          625      1,33D     0.8
tzmawtion M)MnkoMB    ts            239        151        393      0.5        222        283         505      0.5        1106        223        329      0.2         65          11         180     0.1.
flougx cltt1a .1....              2,036      7,825     19,861     25.6     14,2514      5,651     19,905     18.2     17,952        5,532    23,J.1     1.5.9    18,358        14,198    22,556    13.2
Bullock Carte ........              2$6        631      1,080      1.4.     1.,146       059       2,0014     1.8        1476      l,Cft      1,195      L0          584,        79       1,375     0.6
tAirp Huariqs.1..1 ..           .        1    , I707    1,721      2.3         29        661L        690      0.6         81.       1,6,6     1,730      1.2         85;       1,104.     1,189     0.7
XaM7t Fabsriae          .          -321                   32       0.4       -            386        386      0.4       -21.                     22.     T          -             62         62      T
opm WaLl.s. ........               -         1,750      1,750      2.3       -          2,137      2,1917     2.0       -2,11.3               2,113      1.1                   I',1"4     I."14     -0.8
Ttweulso. .........                -          -          -         -            2        661        -663     0.6           1          1409      1,10     0.3        -114                     14     T
Tfrator cmd Attachnanta. .         -                     -         --                     99          99      0.1         75          220       295      0.2        -76                      76     T
Nuor Tilher and Attaahmts          -                                                    -              5      T        i,11,2        -        1,12,      0.8       2,066-                 2,066     1.2
Power Ptiap and MMglms..           -                     -         --- -                                 -         -                 -         -         -        12,707                 12,707      7.5
others. ........510)                         2.268     2.T7L       3.6      1.391       1.155      2.8147    2J5      s,I.         2,493     3...a%     2.2       1-4          2327     3JaMi        1.9
Total      UfL27      3A35      2ZjA      J2hj       1740       1,1         30.620    28.1      n.n3L        1453      36.j       25.0      Wea        J21456     Jt267     S2A0
Io.y-Ter Loans:
Taboenlls.-...      ...10,950                          10,950     14.2         10      28,8814    28,8914    26.4.      -          30,64.6    3D,64,6   20.8         885      29,328     30,213     17.6
Tractors and Attachmsntes .          64.     6,332      6,396      8.3        101      17,8143    17,94,4    16.14       822      147,1494   148,3315   32.7       1,208      1.1,037    4.2,24.5  214.7
Power TillerazdlAttathm.ts                    -          -         -           50       -             50      0.1      1,552           37     1.,589     1.1       2,725        -         2,725      x.6
Farw Paps and Bugina .. .            13        399        2.12     o.6         So        396         2.16     0.1.        55          231       286      0.2       1,996-                 1,996      2.2
Harticalture .                       14.     1,023      1,037      1.3         11         618        629      0.6          5          1405    - 410      0.3         IS           34,4      359      0.2
Tea Development L"as.:            2,6o9       -         2,609      3.1.     2,232        -         2,232      2.0        T26         -          726      0.5       1,1.25       -1,125               0.7
Others .f......l .7                            515        632      0.8         85       1,053      1.13       1.0        635          40       1.M.1     0.7         504         4T         961      0.5
Total      2.817      19.219     22.036    28.6       2.539     1..9.       51,333     4.6.9     3.795       79.311    83.106     56.3      Z14k8       71.186   TJ.644       46.:
Chrnd TotaLl    36,_83      4.0_169    7693     100.0      2.1,547    67,972.    19,2       100.0     1a.7.182    100.4.81   1=        100.0     6106.21                la.7      100
T   Negligible






P A K I 8 T A N
sTLTDUNT ap LOAN NBBUR8U AO0aRDI3 V TSl SIZE
OF HOLDIE8 DIJEI   TMN MUR 1966/6T-19616
1966/67                              1967/68
But          esat                   htat         Westa
Pakistan    Pakistan    Pakiotan     Pakisftan   Pakistan    Pakistan
LandI ass
a., Number of Loams. .........               3,2248      6,675       9,923       1,2410     31,057       32,2467
b.. Percant to Total Nunber of Loans. .        5.3        324.6      12.3          2.0        60.7         27.0
c., AMoUnt of Loansi (RS million). . . .       0.          3.2        24.0         0.8        16.3         17.0
d., Percent of Amouint of Logans to Total      1.7         3.2         2.7         1.3        15.3         10.0
Up to 3 Acres:t
a.. Nmnber of Loans. .........              16,333         803     17,136       26,025       3,380       29,2405
b., Pu-rcent to Total Ntmber of Loans. .      26.7        24.2       21.3         37.7         6.6         224.5
c. Amount of Loams (Rs milli on). . . .      06.1         0.8         6.9          7.9         1.9          9.8
d., Percent of Amouznt of Loaa  to Total     13.0         0.8         24.7        12.2         1.8          5.7
From 3 Acres to 1.2.5 Acres:
a., Number of LIans. .........              30,961       2,798     33,359       33,263       7,2482      240,7245
b. Percent to Total Ntnber of LIans. .        50.0        1245       21.5         248.1       124.6        33.9
o., Amount of loans (Rs million). . . .      17.9         817        26.6         31.7         9.3         241.1
d.. Perceent of Amount of Loans to TotaL.     38.0         8.7       18.1         248.8        8.8         224.0
Fromi 12.5 Acres to 50 Acres:
a., Number of Loazs. .........               9,795       5,6024    15,399        7,1410      5,718       13,128
b,. Pur-cut to Total Number of loans. *       16.0        29.0       19.1         10.7        3.1.2        10.9
c., Amtount of Loam (Ru mnillion). . . .      11.0       245.8       56.8          9.6        39.3         4j8.9
d.. Pwocent okf Amount of Loans to Total      23.24      245.6       38.5         124.8       37.0         28.5
Fromi 50 Acres to 100 Acres,
a., Number of Loans ..........7246                       2,091      2,837          600       2,396        2,996
b.. Percenrt to Total Nunber of Looans. .      1.2       10.8         3.5          0.9         24.7         2.5
a.. Amount of Loans (Rs million). . . .       1.1        224.2       25.3          1.8        224.24       26.1
d.. Percent of Amotunt of Loans to Total      2.4,       224.0       17.1          2.7        22.9         15.3
Fromi 100 Acres to 200 Acres:
a. Number of Loans. .........79                            995       1,0724        163         967        1,130
b.. Percent of TotAl Nwmer of Toans. .         0.1         5.2         1.3         0.2         1.9          0.9
a.. Amouat of loans (Es million). . . .       0.3        124.8       15.1          0.9        12.7         13.7
d.. Percent of AmDunt of Loans to Total        0.7        124.8      10.3          1.24       12.0          8.0
Fromi 200 Acres to 400 Acres:
a. Number of Loans .....       . ....2                     132         1324         15         ll6          131
b. Percent to Total Numberof Loans. .          T           0.7         0.2         T            0.2         0.1
c., Amount of loans (Rs million). . . .        0.01       1.8         1.8          0.24        2.0          2.24
d. Percent of Amountof Toauto Total.          T           1.8         1.2          o.6         1.9          1.24
owi 2400 Acrest
a.,Nuuber of Loans.....        .2....407                  189         596          207          21          228
b. Percent to Total Nuraber of Loans. .        0.7         1.0        0.8          0.3         0.1          0.2
a. Amount of Loans (Es million). . . .         9.8        1.1        10.9         ll.8         0.3         12.1
d. Percant of Amount of Ioan to Total         20.8        1.1         7.24        18.2         0.3          7.1
Totalst
a. Nmuber of Loans. .........               61,571      19,287      80,2458     69,093      51,137      120,230
b. Percent to Total Numb,er of Loans. .      100.0       100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
c. Amount of Loans (Es million). . . .        247.0     100.24     1IVA2          65.0       106.2        171.2
d. Pu-cenrt of Amount of Loans to Total      100.0      100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0






PA K I S TAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AaRICULTURAL DVLOPMENT BANK
COMPARATIVE STATMENT OF NET INCOME
JYLT 1 - JMD  30 OF YEARS INCATED
(bipees Thousands)
1965                       1966                               1967                               1968
% of Increase                      % of Increase                       % of Imrease
%                  %       Over 1965                  %        Over 1966                  %       Over 1967
Average Farning Assets:              273,51)4           331,717               21.3          420,360               26.7         536,1862              27.6
Income:
Interest on Loans .... .     .  .   .  17,752  6.49    20,747    6.25       16.9          26,640    6.34        31.8          35,110    6.55       31.8
Other Income .......... .              524    0.19        694    0.21       32.4             891    0.21        28.4           1,245    0.23       39.7
Total Income    18,276    6.68     21,441    6.46       14.8          27,531    6.55       28.4           36,355   6.78        32.1
ISspenses:
Interest on Money Borrowed. . . .    6,152    2.25      8,699    2.62       41.4          11,841    2.82       36.1           15,258    2.84       28.9
Salaries and Allowances . . . . .    7,310    2.67      7,837    2.36       72.1            9,102   2.17        16.1          10,386    1.94       1)4.1
Rent and Office Expenses. . . . .      362    0.13        341    0.10       ( 5.8)            383   0.09        12.3             485    0.09       26.6
Provisiom for Depreciation . . .       162    0.06        155    0.05       ( 4.3)           184    0.04        18.7             250    0.05       35.9
Provisions for Bad-Doubtful Debts      653    0.24      1,271    0.38       96.1            1,886   o.45        48.4           3,394    o.63       79.9
Other Expenses. . . . . . . . . .    1,016    0.37      1,246    0.38       22.6            1,346   0.32         8.0           1,876    0.35       39.4
Total Expenses    15,655    5.72     19,549    5.89       24.9          24,742    5.89        26.6          31,649   5.90        27.9
Net Profit Before Tax . . . . . .    2,621    0.96      1,892    0.57       (27-8)          2,789   0.66        47.4           4,706    0.88       68.7
18,276    6.68     21,441    6.46       17.3          27,531    6.55       28.4           36,355   6.78        32.1
Appropriation of Net Profits:
Write-Off Losses Taken Over . . .      331    0.12        -       -                          -        -          -              -        -           -
Provision for Taxes ... .    .  .   .  1,473  0.54      1,281    0.39       (13-0)          1,894   0.45        47.6           3,281    0.61       73.2
Reserves. . . . . . . . . . . . .      817    0.30        611    0.18       (25.2)            895   0.21        46.5           1,425    0.27       59.2
2,621    0.96      1,892   0.57       (27.8)          2,789    o.66       47.4            4,706   0.78        68.7






PA ! I S T A N
T4lM CMtT 1'D THE AGFaC LTliL DEYELOPIW        BANK
COIIPAATE STATKEMNT OF RS       S. LIABILITIES AND CAMAL - 1964-1968
June 30, 1965             Jun  3Q. 1966                           30, 1967                     Juno 30, 1968
,1 to             A     .................or I we`            I to 1  of loreaae        I   to  'A ar Iacrease
Amount    Total    unmt     Total    ovcr 19/65      Ant       Total   over 1965/66      ant      Total   over 1966/67
RBSOURE
Cash and Due from Banks ........ .            3,633     1.2     7,462     2.0       105.3         19,056     3.8       155.3        13,389      2.2       (29.7)
Investments in qoverinoent Securities . .     3,849     1.3     4,875     1.3        26.7          6,939     i.4        42.3          9,022     1.5        30.0
Loan Portfolio:   . . ........ .  .291,181             95.4   359,698    94.4         23.5       463,474 93.0           28.5        582,47L    95.3        25.7
Deposit for Incom   Tax (Refundable
and in advance) . .......... .              3,249     1.1     5,129     1.3        57.8          4,735     1.0      (  7.7)         1,837     0.3       (61.2)
Other Assets ............ . .                 3,139     1.0     3,714     1.0         18.3         4,o98     0.8        10.3          L,483     0.7         9.4
Total Resources .305,05              . 3o5,051   100.0   380,878   100.0         24.9       498,302   100.0        30.8       611,205    100.0        22.7
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Paid-up Capital. . ..................... 100,000       32.8   100,000    26.3          -         100,000    20.1         -          110,000    18.0        10.0
Surplus Reserves .. ......... . . .......1,060          0.3     1,671     0.3         57.6         2,566     0.5        53.5          3,991     o.6        55.5
Reserve for Taxes    .        .               4,731     1.6     5,973     1.6         26.2         5,850     1.2        ( 2.0)        3,689     0.6        36.9
Liability for Money Borrowed.
State Bank     .       ....... .       183,p72    60.1   235,823    61.9         28.5       292,046    58.6        22.1        342,088    56.o        17.1
IlA Funds . . . . .................       -        -      20,102     5.3         _           75,967    15.2       277.9       117,327     19.2        54.4
Deposits a.. ............. . . ..........    12,975     L.3    13,685      3.6         5.5        17,018     3.4        24.3         22,612     3.7        32.9
Other Liabilities    .        .2,813                    0.9     3,624     1.0         28.8         4,855     1.0        33.9         11,498     1.9       136.8
Total Liabilities and Capital . . .    305,051   100.0   380,878   100.0         24.9       498,302   100.0        30.8        611,205   100.0        22.7
1/  On amount shown, provisions for bad debts have been deducted.






P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVEXOP13T BANIK
REOWRD OF COLLECTIONS OF THE AORTCIILTURAL DEVEM4OPMT BagW
(Amnounts in Thousands of Rupees)
overdue Daring Tear
Amount                Collected Doring   ear                                 Trend t
Fallen Due                                                   % to              Compared
During Year          Amount           Amount Doe          Amount Doe          to 1965/66
A. Cmwrent Record of Collections
1965/66:
East Pakistan.                             41,777             34,661             83.0                17.0                 -
West Pakistn .38.412                                          27,571             71.8                28.2
All Pakistan .80.189                                     62.232 7L.6                            22!42
1966/67:
East Pakistan.       .                     49,6224            34,580             69.7                30.3               178.2
West Pakistan .                            47,556             35.046             73.7                26.3                 93.3
AUl Pakistan.                         S7 80              69,626             71.6                28.4               126.8
1%67/68:
East Pakistan .53,612                                         38,326             71.5                28.5               167.6
West Pakist4   k                           57.913             46.866             80.9                19.1                 67.7
All Pakistan .... .                  111,525             85,192             76.4                  2.6                  .,
Unpaid To-Date
Amount                  Collected To-Date                                    Trend f
Fallen Dae                               S to                % to             Compared to
To-Date             Amount           Amount Doe          Amount Doe          6-30-66
B. Culative Record of Collections
As of June 30. 1966:
East Pakistan .212,046                                       158,a43             74.5                25.5
West Pakistan .162,666                                       125,293              77.0                23.0
All Pakistan                         374,712            283,36              75.6                 214.4                -
As of Jane 30. 19671
East Pakistan .261,670                                       192,566             73.6                26.4                103.5
West Pakista .210.711                                         161,155             76.5                23.5               102.2
All Pakistan .172.381                                   353,721              714.9               25.1               102.9
As of June 30. 1968:
East Pakistan .315,281                                       230,892             73.2                 26.8               105.1
West Pakistan .268,625                                        208,021             77.4                22.6                98.3
All Pakistan ....... .               583,906              3913               75.2                24.8                98.8






P A [ I S T A N
THh.itf CREDIT FP0  THE AGRICULTURAL DIV LKWP T BANK
SANCTIONS, DigB *IIS AND WITHIAUAW&S
UN    I   CI Dr'ITS 76-PAZ AND 17-PAZ
AS AT S1PTDG 30 i96fl
(In Ra. '000C
1965-1966              1966-1967              1967-1968        1968-1969
July      January      July      Jamu.ry      July      January      July          Total       Lending     Uncommitted
December     June      December     June      December     June      September    Comaitments    Program      Balance
Credit 76-PUX
Sanctions by AM    D           22,983      50,438     43,455      45,936     15,752      11,836         -          190,400      190,400         _
Tubevells .10,363                        24,175     13,182      19,892     15,752      11,836        -            95,200       95,200
Farm Machinery .12,620                   26,263     30,273      26,04        -- -                                 95,200       95,200
Disbursements by ADB. .        14,104      33,923     35,868      47,174     42,496      13,219      3,616         190,400         -            -
Tubewefs .8,875                          21,211     13,794      16,021i    16,461      13,219       3,616         95,200         -            -
Farm Machiery.                5,229      12,712     22,074      29,150     26,035        -          -             95,200         -            -
Withdrawals from  I.. .         2,854      17,407     22,089      33,617     34,84a        6,909     3,107         120,828         -            -
TlbeelB.      . .1,305                    7,185      7,180       7,350      6,872       6,909       3,107         39,90          -            -
Farm Macbinery.               1,549      10,222     1J,909      26,267     27,973         -          -            80,920         -            -
Credit 117-PAZ
Sanctions by ADB                 -           -          -           -          -            -       81,371          81,371       85,680        4,309W/
Farm Machinery .                     -           -          -           -                 -        64,705         64,705       64,736           31
Power Pmps .-                        -           -          -           -                 -        16,666         16,666       20,944        4,278Y
Disbrsements by ADD. . .         -           -          -           -           -           -
Fams Machinery                 -           -          -           -           -           - _
Power Punps . . . . . .        -                      _           _ 
Withdrawals from                  -           -          -
Farm Machinery.                _                                                                                                              -
Power Pumps.-                                         -           -           -           - 
1/ Actually, Ill funds allocated for power pumps have been fully committed since the loan to EPADO, where all the power pumps went (procured under
international competitive bidding), was for 100% of the foreign exchange requirenent.
2/ As of January 31, 1969, ADBP had withdrawn about US$2 million from Credit 117-PAl.






ANNEX 3
P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND CALCULATIONS
1.        In order to obtain some measure of the financial and economic
benefits of private investments in tractors and tubewells, the mission, to-
gether with field investigators of Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
completed a detailed survey of 50 farms in West Pakistan. These farms were
located in the Lahore and Multan areas where a large part of ADBP's loans
for tractors and tubewells have been made. Production data were obtained
from each of these farms for the fiscal year 1967/68, and for an earlier
year before the farmers had purchased a tractor or tubewell. Of the ques-
tionnaires obtained, 40 provided farm budget data that was generally ade-
quate for financial and economic returns analysis. Data obtained from the
sample farms are summarized in Appendices 3-1 and 3-2. And as can be seen
from these data, very dramatic changes occurred in the input-output struc-
tures of these farms after tubewell and tractor investments were made. The
cultivated land are in both groups of farms increased by the same percentage.
However, total harvested area increased proportionately more on the tractor
farms as a result of greater cropping intensity. The average farms with a
tractor investment was larger than the average farm with a new tubewell,
because tractor farms were selected from within the range 50-100 acre hold-
ings, while tubewell farms were sampled within 25-50 acre holdings. These
farm sizes represent typical ADBP loans for each investment category.
2.        An important criterion in selecting the farms was that as far as
possible, they should be chosen in such a way as to exclude cases where
other important investments were undertaken at the same time the tractor
or tubewell investment were made. Also attempts were made to disregard
farms that had not yet used any new seed varieties or fertilizer in the
"before investment" conditions. In this way it was anticipated that the
production increases from additions of other important inputs would be
minimized. Under the rapidly changing technological conditions in Pakis-
tan's agriculture during the period under observation, this turned out to
be extremely difficult. Both seeds and fertilizer inputs increased sub-
stantially in quantity and at the same time the exceptional good rainfall
in 1967/68 played a part in bringing about higher yields in the "after
investment" results. This was particularly true for tractor farms. About
two-thirds of the observed increase in net income was attributed to factors
other than the investment under observation. The remaining one-third of






ANNEX 
Page 2
the observed increase would still, after appropriate shadow pricing for
the cost of foreign exchange, yield an internal economic rate of return
of about 12% for tractor investments. In the case of tubewell loans the
economic rate of return was estimated at about 28% (Appendices 3-3 - 3-6).
3.        An increase in the domestic price of tractors, as proposed under
the Project, would inprove investment allocations. The high financial rate
of return on tractors would then be reduced and this input would no longer
be in demand ensuring marginally efficient farmers. In turn this should
improve the economic efficiency of the average farmer under the Project
and therefore increase the average economic rate of return of tractors
beyond 12%. Moreover, with a larger number of implements the average tractor
could be used more intensively for on-farm work. Particularly land leveling
equipment which result in more efficient utilization of irrigation water,
have promising potentials. The use of more implements per tractor would
also raise the level of the net income stream that may be attributed to the
tractor. The extent to which the economic rate of return of tractor invest-
ment would. be raised beyond 12% under these conditions were difficult to
quantify, but at least these considerations would indicate that the pro-
jected rate of return for tractors is based on conservative estimates.
4.        Labor cost savings per acre were substantial since they resulted
in a b0% reduction in labor input per cropped acre. However, because of
the increased cropping intensity on tractor farms, the actual labor dis-
placement was relatively insignificant.  Rather than displacing existing
labor, the addition of capital. equipment made possible an increase in the
efficiency of labor inputs. At the same time there is no institutional
bias towards capital-intensive investments, since ADBP from domestic sources
of funds also stands prepared to assist farmers with credits for manual and
bullock-drawn implements.






A.E N DIX 3
AVERAGE COST ANID INCOME!/ BEFORE AND AFTER TUBWELI INSTALLATION
SAMPLE OF 19 FARMS IN WEST PAKISTAN
Unit         Before         After
Cultivated Area . . . . . . . .         Acre            29             40
Crcpped.Area . .  . . . . . . .         Acre            32             47
Total Value of Crop Production          RS.          6,749         19,042
Cash Costs:
Seed.....       . .   . . .                         380            610
Fertilizer. . . . .   . . .                         321          1,731
Other .. . *    .   ....                            207            688
Total Costs Other Than Tubewell         Rs.            908          2,979
Current Costs of Tubewell. . .          Rs.             -           1,5140
Net Incomei/ . . . . . . . . .          Rs.          5,841         14,523
1/ Excluding hired labor and land costs.






APP8UNDIX 3 2
AVERAGE COSTS AND INCOME BEFORE AND AFTER PURCHASE OF TRACTOR
SAMPILE OF 21 FARMS IN WEST PAKISTAN
Unit       Before         After
Cultivated Area . . . . . . ..       Acre         6o.48         84.3
Cropped Area. . . . . . . . . .      Acre         68.7         112.8
Gross Value of Production -
Current Prices. . . .      Rs.         21,597        52,069
Gross Value of Production -
Constant Prices . . .      Rs.         24,634        52,069
Less Fodder Value                    Rs.         3,693         3,472
20,931        48,597
COSTS:
Crops Inputs
Fertil]izer. . . . . . . . .                 1,548         5,225
Seed. . . . . . . . . . . .                    974         1,993
Other . . . . . . . . . . .                  1,365         4,447
Sub-Total . . . . . .                   3,887        11,665
Labor Hired:
Permanent   . . . . . . .                    3,381         1,8h3
Seasonal   . . . . .   . .                   1,708         2,544
Family. . . . . . . . . . .                  3,146         34407
Sub-Total . . . . . .                   8,235         7,794
Tractor:
Fuel and Oil. . . . . . . .                    -           1,242
Repairs and Maintenance . .                    -           1,450
Sub-Total . . . . . .                                 2,692
Land:                                          4,228         5_,901
Total Cost. . . . . .                  16,350        28,052
Net Revenue . . . . . . . . . .                  4,581        20,545






APJPE!MIX 3-'i
ESTIMATED FINANCIAL COSTS AND BENEFITS OF TUBEWELL
Annual Income
Initial       and Costs
Unit         Investment   1 - 15 Years
Incremental Income. . . .  (15 acres)
Gross Income. . . . . . .  414 Rs./ac                       6,210
Costs:
Fertilizer . . . . . .  37 Rs./ac                          555
Seed . . . . . .   . . .  13 Rs./ac                        195
Labor. . . . . . . . .  1. Man-Years                      850
Other  . . . . . ...    13 Rs./ac                          195
Total Costs . . . . . . .                                   1,795
Net Income. . .                                   4,415
Incremental Cash Outflow
for Tubewe:ll:
Purchase of Tubewell .                    8,790
Fuel and Oil . . . . .                                   1,132
Repairs and Maintenance                                    408
Outflow . . . , . . . . .                    8,790          1,540
Balance . . .    .  . . . . .                8,790          2,875
Rate of Return. . . . . .                                   31.5%






APPENDIX 3-4
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COSrS AND BENEFITS OF TUBEWELL
Annual Income
Initial        and Costs
Unit         Investments    1 - 15 Years
Incremental Net Income:     (15 acres)
Gross Income. . . . . . .   448 Rs/ac                          -     6,720
Fertilizer. . . . . . .   53 Rs/ac                           801     -
Seed. . . . . . . . . .   13 Rs/ac                          195      -
Labor   ..... .    .. .   1.4 Man-Years         -            850     -
Other . . . . . . ...     13 Rs/ac                          195      -
Total Costs . . . . . . .                                   2,072
Net Income. . .4,648
Incremental Cash Outflow
for Tubewell:
Purchase of Tubewell. .                      -12,306         -       -
Fuel and Oil. . . . . .                                      647     -
Repairs and Maintenance                         - _ _08
-12,306       1,055     -
Balance . . . . . . . . .                      -12,306         -     3,593
Rate of Re-turn. . . . . .                                     -     28.0%






APPENDIX 3{5
FINANCIAL COST AND BENEFITS OF TRACTOR INVESTMENT
Annual Income and
Unit        Investment  Costs (1 - 7 Years)
Incremental Income. . . . 24 ac (@ 337.18)                     8,092
Incremental Costs
Fertilizer. . . . . . . .(@ 46.32)                             834
Seed..... . .   . . . .  (@ 17.67)                             318
Water . . . . . . ... (@ 35)                                   630
Other Crop. . . . . . . (@ 39.42)                              710
Total . . . . .                                      2,492
Oost Savings on Additional
24 Acres (Labor). . . . .                                     -3,730
Incremental Cash Outflow
for Tractor .    .  .  .
Purchase of Tractor and
Equipment . . . . . . . .                     17,600
Sale of Bullocks (6 Pairs)                     -6,ooo
Fuel and Oil. . . ...                                        1,242
Repair and Maintenance.                                      1,450
Total . . . . .                      11,600          2,692
Balance . . . .                                      6,638
Rate of Return.                                       55.0%






APPENDIX 3-6
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS OF TRACTOR INVESTMENT
Annual Income and
Unit       Investment  Costs (1-7 Years)
I.ncremental Income: . . . .  2 ac (@ 366)       -            8B784
Incremental Costs:1/
Fertilizer. . . . . . . .   (@ 71.28)          -            1,251
Seed    . . .  . . . . . .  (@ 17.67)          ^              318
Water .  . . . . . . . . .  (@ 90)             -            1,620
Other Crops. . . . . . .    (@39.42)           -              710
Total   l . . . ...                                 3,899
Cost Savings per Acre
(Labor) . . . . . . . . .                     -            -3,730
Incremental Costs Outflow
for Tractor .    .  .  .  .                      -               -
P'urchase of Tractor and
Equipment . . . . . . . . .                   30,60O
Sale of Bullocks (6 Pairs)                     -6,000 
Fuel and Oil. . . . . . .                      -              710
Repair and Maintenance                         -            2,030
Outflow . . . . .                    24,6oo         2,740
Balance . . . . . . . . . .                    24,600         5,875
,tate of Return                                                 15%
.xcluding labor cost savings
of 2/3 man-year the net incre-
m.ental income stream would be
reduced to Rs. 5,343 and the
rate of return to                                               12%
I/ Incremental 24 acres consist of 18 acres due to higher cropping inten-
sity and 6 acres of food crops previously under fodder crops. The
incremental costs, therefore, only relate to 18 acres.






ANNEX 1
P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
TARIFFS AND LEVIES ON TRACTORS AND TRACTOR SPARE PARTS
1.        Agricultural machinery, including tractors, are imported into
Pakistan at the over-valued (in relation to the value of the Rupee in
foreign currency markets) official exchange rate and are exempt from
tariffs and taxes generally applicable to imported goods. Thus, these im-
ports enjoy preferential treatment relative to industrial machinery, which
are subject to the following tariff levies:
35% ad valorem for West Pakistan
25% ad valorem for East Pakistan
2.        The apparent objective of this policy is to encourage the demand
for modern inputs at the farm level. When it was initiated, the policy
was in accordance with general subsidy policies that Government had applied
to other key farm inputs, such as fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, etc. It
was also the avowed intention of Government that agricultural subsidies
should be reduced when the productivity and profitability of the new inputs
had become demonstrated to farmers and when, accordingly, demand for such
inputs had been generated.  The Third Plan document states:  ".........pro-
motional subsidies will continue to play a key role, especially with regard
to fertilizer, water, plant protection, improved seeds and the use of ma-
chinery. These subsidies will, however, be reviewed periodically--and
after the majority of farmers have had experience with improved inputs,
the grants will be reduced." (The Third Plan 1965-70; June 1965, p. 464).
3.        Credit 76-PAK showed that the demand for tractors was beyond ex-
pectations. The amount allocated for tractors in that Credit was disbursed
ahead of schedule and this led to a second credit (Credit 117-PAK) in 1968,
which was largely to finance the backlog of ADBP-approved loans for tractors
(about 3,000 approved tractor loan applications are currently outstanding
from the previous year due to lack of necessary foreign exchange for import
licenses). Because of these shortages, a "black market" has developed for
new tractors, whereby prices obtained are at least 70-80% above regular
retail prices for the more popular makes.






ANiocX L
Page 2
Since a high level of demand for tractors has been achieved in
Pakistan, it is clearly time to reduce the subsidy element implicit in
their import price and thus ensure the most efficient allocation of scarce
resources in agriculture. At the same time, the sample farm survey con-
ducted by IDA in West Pakistan (Annex 3) has shown that higher tractor
prices would be important in reducing the possibility of uneconomic replace-
ment of labor for machinery.
5.        The increase in tractor prices is an issue of significant impor-
tance to the proposed Project. At current prices of tractors, it is ex-
tremely difficult for ADBP to ascertain whether the tractor is likely to
be efficiently utilized. The farm survey showed that some farmers, who had
received loans for tractors, did not make full use of their investment. A
rise in the cost of this input would be expected to reduce the present ex-
cessively high demand for tractors and thus ease ADBP's appraisal procedures
under the proposed Project.
6.        The desired price increase may either be effected through a change
in the effective exchange rate or through an increase in the tariff level.
Without a full devaluation, the former may be brought about by placing these
imports on the "bonus voucher" list, or the "cash-cum-bonust, list, thereby
increasing the effective foreign exchange rate by 180% or 90% respectively.i!
This could certainly be justified from the financial and economic rate of
return calculations, which indicate that the former is about six times higher
than the latter. On the other hand, since import costs of industrial ma-
chinery items are still only affected by the above mentioned. tariff level,
it may, for the time being, be apprcpriate merely to ensure that the same
level (35--25%) also be applicable to tractors. At a subsequent point in
time it may be important to reconsider the need for further increases in
the import costs of tractors.
7.        Raising the tariff level for tractors would also be consistent
with the Bank's general economic policy recommendations to Pakistan. Dur-
ing the last three years, the Bank has urged greater tax efforts in the
agricultural sector in Pakistan. However, it has been hesitant to recom-
mend specific tax increases within the sector for fear that increased tax-
ation might jeopardize private investment activities which have been im-
portant for economic growth in recent years. In the case of tractors, an
increase of up to 35% in the price would not likely jeopardize the effective
demand. of efficient farmers and thus, would be in agreement with the objec-
tives of the Third Plan.
8.        In addition to the recommended higher tariff for new tractors,
there is also the equally important need to review and adjust the complex
1/  Bonus vouchers are permits to buy foreign exchange and represent export
proceeds retained by certain exporters and sold in the open market at
a price of around 180% (1968). Cash-cum-bonus system allows half the
cost of the import under bonus voucher, and the other half under the
official exchange rate.






ANNEX 1;.
Page 3
and inappropriate tariff structure for tractor spare parts. Currently,
these items may be imported together with the new tractor at the same
official rate and tariff exemption. However, when they are imported not
at the same time with tractors, spare parts may only be licensed under
the voucher system (i.e. at the higher than official exchange rate) and
they are liable to tariffs and taxes. As the table below shows, some of
the spare parts--particularly tractor tires and tubes--are subject to very
large import levies:
Tax Measures:     Import Duty     Sales Tax    Other Taxes     Total
Rate Basis:       (ad valorem)  (on Duty Paid   (as Sales   (as % of CIF
Value)         Tax)        Value)
Tires. . . . . . . .     87½             15            4           123
Tubes. . . . . . . .     87½             15            4           123
Switches and Fuses .     40              20            5            75
Bolts, nuts, rubber
parts, etc.. . . .     50              15            4            78
Lamps. . . . . . . .     75              15            4           108
Pump parts . . ...       40              15            4            66
9.        Obviously, the policy on duties and taxes imposed on tractor parts-
has led to inordinately high prices for these items. For example, a pair
of tractor tires may cost (about Rs. 7,000) more than half of the price of
a new tractor (about Rs. 12,000). In addition, the policy has resulted in
parts for particular brands of tractors from not being imported at all.  For
instance, a dealer which in the past may have sold a large number of trac-
tors but during a subsequent period is unable to secure import licenses for
his particular tractor (maybe due to a lack of current demand for the trac-
tor), may not be able to import spare parts for the previous tractors he
sold, except at high-cost bonus vouchers and tariff levies.
10.       The Government has made attempts to rectify this anomaly in pric-
ing policies. It has stated that, in principle, all machinery items for
use in agriculture are exempt from customs duties. However, the regulations
to implement this policy objective have been totally ineffective. They
specify that this exemption can only be granted, ". ...... provided that it
established to the satisfaction of the customs-collector that the items are
intended for use in agriculture and cannot ordinarily be used and will not
be used for purposes other than agriculture." (S.R.O. 92 (R)/68--June 8,
1968). Since it has been the experience of dealers that it is impossible






ANNEX !
Page 4
to convinr,e a custom officer that a particular spare part is for use only
in agriculture (and cannot and will not be used elsewhere), no spare parts
imported separately from tractors have yet escaped the heavy tariffs and
levies.






PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
EXPECTED DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTMENT PROGRAM
West Pakistan               East Pakistan                   All Pakistan
No. of    Amount   % to     No. of    Amount   % to     No. of    Amount   Equiv. Amt.
Units     (Rs M)   Total    Units     (Rs M)   Total    Units      (Rs M)   in US$ M
Tubewells ...............   7,600      85.5     95        400        4.5      5     8,000      90.0        18.9
Tractors .4,940                        76.1     95        260        4.0      5      5,200     80.1        16.8
Tractor Implements .        various    27.3     95      various     1.4       5     various    28.7        6.o
Power Tillers, including
inmplements .-                                -       3,9000     17.2     100     3,000       17.2        3.6
188.9     87                 27.1      13               216.0       45.3






PI Ki ST -'
7H1RD CRBDIT FCR THE AoRICLrIAL DKVWLOPMPT BIBK
PE9CTr CASH FLOW'
(In RB Iillions)
_ 1       2     3    L      5     6      7     8      9     10      11     12      13     1l     15     1       17     id    19     2D    21    totals
R B C 5 1 P T S:
1.   p   Rbso_rces (fzs  qouity ad State Bak bsrrouings) ......      22.6   23.6   -     -      -     _     -      -      -      _      -       _      -       _      _      -        _     _      _     _      _     L6.2
2. mt Funds (free 0Oneroint)   .... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6h.6  67.L  -  -  -  -                                                                                                          132.0
31. Collections fre  Project Loans                             .            17.4 35.6  35.6  35.6   35.6  18.4     -      -             -       -                _ - _       - _ _ _ _ _                             178.2
L. DIMCO    from. Intrelt  Loans ... .    .  .   . ...........        3.8   10.2 11.4   8.6   5.7    2.9   0.7     -     -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -        -     -      -     -      -    43.3
Total Receipts                                    .     91.0  118.6 47.0 44.2    41.3  38.5   19.1    -     -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -     -      -     -      -    399.7
D I S B U R S B H B I T S'
1. Loans to Poject Fanars:
a. Tub.eells .                                                   36.4   36.5    -    -      -     -      -                                                    _ -  -  -  -  -  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _                   72.9
b. Tractors          ..31.2 33.3                                                -    -      -     -      -     -                                              _ -  _ -  _ -  -  -  -     - _          -           6L.5
c. Tractor  plae  sntos     ..11.0                                      12.2    -    -      -     -      -      -     -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -      -     -     23.2
d. Por Tillare, including implaents .            .8.6                    8.6    -    -      -     -      -     -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -       -      -     -      -     -     17.2
87.2   90.6    -    -      -     -      -     -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -      -     -    177.8
2. Kanr itngeso    Services .... .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  0.2  0.2                                                                                                                        9.4
87.4   90.8    -    -      -     -      -     -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -      -     -    178.2
3.   spaysent of DI Furls .... .    .  .  .   . ...... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  -  -  -     -      -    L.3    8.8   8.8    8.8    8.8    8.8     8.8    8.8     8.8    8.8     8.8     8.8    8.8   8.8    8.8   4.5   132.0
p. asnsea:
*. Interst on mi Fuds (to Ooermwn. . .    . . . . . . . . . . .   1.3    3.9   5.3  5.3    5.3   5.2    4.9   1.6    4.2    3.9     3.5    3.2     2.8    2.5     2.1    1.8     i.4    1.1   0.7    0.4   0.1    63.5
b. Genera and idunistratin   xpse     ............           .    1.3    4.1   4.5  3.5    2.8    1.3   0.5    -      -      _       _      _       _      -       _      _                                       16.0
total 82pens .... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2.6  8.0  9.8  8.8  8.1  6.5  5.L  1.6  1.2  3.9  3.5   3.2     2.8    2.5     2.1    1.8     1.4    1.1   0.7    0.1   0.1    81.5
Total Disborsemmots .e... .    .  .  .   . ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  90.0  98.8  9.8  8.8  8.i  i0.8  11.2  13.4  13.0  12.7  12.3  12.0    11.6   11.3    10.9   1o.6     10.2   9.9    9.5   9.2   1.6   391.7
Nal DuL n uBal-ns for the Period  .... .  .   . ...... .   .  .  .  .   .  1.9  19.8  37.2  35I.  33.2  27.7  6.9  (13. ) (13.0)  (12.7)  (12.3)  (12.0)  (11.6)  (11.3)  (10.9)  (10.6)  (10.2)  (9.9)  (9.5)  (9.2)  (4.6)  5.0
Aocrelat.d Cash Balance:
Consisting of:
ED& Funda  uot nended to Ser i.e Credit' . . . . . . . . . . ..  -   12.        9 39.2 65.5  9 1.9 111.9 118.9 11 0.1 101.3 92.5  83.7  74.9   66.1   57.3    48.5   39.7     30.9  22.1   13.3   4.5     -
ADB3P Funds ....... .     .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .  1.0  7.9  18.8 27.9  31.7  10.3  40.3  35.7  31.5  27.6  2L.1  20.9  18.1  15.6  13.5  11.7    10.3    9.2   8.5    8.1   8.0
Ac-uw.latod Cah Balance ...... .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1.0  20.8  58.0 93.h  126.6  154.3 159.2  145.8  132.8  120.1  107.8  95.8  84.2  72.9  62.0  51.6  61.2  31.3  21.8  12.6  8.0
A11 transctions shoan are those prtaining to ore lsndig opration only, sosept those involved in s-rvicing the i Credit.
L/ Share in Gsceral and Adninistrative :Xpe-ss sxclusive of Ln,.. tu) on tie bhais of Project iro-e to A1BP ioctes.
2/ If CDA funds -e- invested in sediun- ard long-tsr. loans they wuld g.cer-rt gro-s irron  of oboat Rs 110 million, or a turnovr of mA funds of about 2 tixs.
ti






ANMEX 7
P A K I S T A N
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
SCHEMES FOR IMPROVING LOAN APPRAISAL
PROCEDURES AND SUPERVISION
I. PRESENT APPRAISAL PROCEDURE
Appraisal Objectives
1.        Appraisal work is performed by field investigators who work di-
rectly under the local ADBP branch managers. Investigators consider two
criteria in evaluating a loan application: (a) existence and value of the
security offered by the applicant, and (b) the repayment ability of the
applicant.
Collateral Security
2.        Loans may be granted on the security of land, buildings, bank
deposit, bank guarantee, the cash surrender value of life insurance policy,
gold, Government securities, personal bond, or by a lien on growing or
stored crop (hypothecation). Hypothecation is acceptable only in the case
of cotton, sugar cane, and tea, where applicants must commit to deliver
harvested crops to designated cotton ginners, sugar mills, or tea brokers.
Most of the loans, including short-term loans, are granted against the
security of immovable property--a reflection of the emphasis of ADBP on
"hard" collaterals.
Appraisal of Repayment Ability
3.        Investigators estimate the gross value of the products, cost of
production, and the net value of production before and after investment.
The net incremental value is used as the basis for assessing the repayment
ability of the applicant. The gross value of production before investment
is obtained from the records of the Government Revenue Offices and presents
no problem to the ADBP investigators. Problems arise, however, when esti-
mates are made of an applicant's operations after investment. Assumptions
must be made of the changes in the cropping pattern, in the additional
amount and costs of inputs to be used, and of the resulting new crop yields.
Investigators do not have reliable reference sources to fall back on, and






AINNEX 7
Page 2
neither the investigators nor the applicant farmers have experience with
tubewell irrigation or modern farm machinery. In such a situation, ADBP
investigators are wont to accept at face value information applicant
farmers give them, relying on the sufficiency of collateral, in any case,
as the final basis for a loan.
II. PROPOSALS FOR IMPROVING LOAN APPRAISAL AND SUPERVISION
The Proposals in General
4.        Conceived after discussions with headquarters and field staff of
ADBP and the proper Government officials, improvement in appraisal proce-
dures and loan supervision would involve the following: (a) providing field
investigators with appraisal guidelines, including basic data in the form
of reference tables to enable them to appraise applications on a uniform
and sound basis; and (b) establish a technical advisory unit at ADBP head-
quarters with supplementary staff at the regional ADBP branches. The tech-
nical service unit will serve as technical liaison between ADBP and the
technical departments of the Government. Its principal function, however,
would be to pass on information and mechanization know-how to loanees and
to help such loanees prepare better farm plans.
Appraisal. Guidelines and Reference Tables
5.        The present ADBP appraisal guidelines must be updated from time
to time and must include reference tables of agricultural data needed for
loan appraisals. They must be prepared by AJBP with help from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the Office of Agricultural Engineering of West Pakistan
and other Government offices. Such tables would be based on available sur-
vey and research results and actual records of farm operations. They would
provide information on crop yields that normally could be expected on dif-
ferent major soil types, ecological conditions, status of irrigation, and
level of inputs; the need for and maintenance cost of farm machinery such
as tractors, power tillers, farm implements, and tubewells; etc. Reference
tables are to be reviewed and refined from time to time.
6.        Government officials expressed willingness to cooperate with ADBP
in the preparation of such tables. The Research and Statistics Division of
ADBP has agreed to prepare a list of information needed and will initiate
discussions with the Department of Agriculture and the Office of Agricultural
Engineering, West Pakistan, for their preparation. Reference tables for
the rest of Pakistan should be prepared when those for the central zone of
Pakistan are completed.
Technical Service Unit
7.        ADBP should establish at headquarters a small three-man Technical
Service Unit headed by a farm management expert of broad and more than ade-
quate experience in mechanized farming, assisted by one farm machinery
expert and one farm management expert.






ANMEX 7
Page 3
8.        The function of this unit is not to build up an extension service
of its own, but to help in obtaining information from other organizations
and sources, relevant to ADBP supported agricultural operations, particu-
larly on tubewell and farm mechanization projects. The information and
data so obtained must be completely digested, analyzed, and compiled to
fit the particular needs of ADBP. The unit will work out, with the help
of the technical departments of Government, guidelines for providing tech-
nical advice to loanees, e.g., formulation of farm plans, selection of
proper cropping pattern, kind and levels of inputs, cultural practices,
and the use of farm implements. The Government Extension Service is not,
at present, equipped to service the specialized needs of tractor and/or
tubewell loanees. Plans for strengthening the Extension Service are under
discussion, but cannot produce the necessary impact within the foreseeable
future. The Director of Agriculture for the central zone of Pakistan (re-
presents 62% of crop land and 70% of total production of West Pakistan) is
receptive to the idea of the establishment of a technical service unit by
ADBP. Coordination between Government Agriculture Departments and ADBP
should present no administrative problem because the Secretaries of Agri-
culture of West and East Pakistan are members of the Board of Directors of
ADBP.
III. CONCLUSION
9.        ADBP's collateral oriented criteria of appraising loan applica-
tions must be changed to one of priority on the basis of financial and
technical, justification among applicants offering sufficient security. To
accomplish this, it is necessary that sounder appraisal guidelines be
adopted and appraisal work facilitated by providing ADBP investigators with
convenient and reliable tools of appraisal. Furthermore, loanees must be
given technical service so that they can derive from their investment the
highest returns possible. Implementation of the above-discussed measures
would not only immediately start ADBP loan operations in these directions,
but also provide a basis for continuous improvement of technical capability
in the future. The proposed scheme for a technical service unit will not
duplicate the Government Extension Service but rather, would strengthen it.






PAKISTAN
THIB   CREDMIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELflC2NT BANI
PRCJECTED STATnENT OF SGURM    S AM10 APPLICATIOtN OF FMNDS (ENTID    OPERtATITCNS)
DURIbl THE FISCAL YEARS 1DICATED
(In Killion of Rupees)
1968/69       1969/70       1970/71       1971/72       1972/73       Totals
SOURCED OF FUNDS
1. Borrowings
a. Advances from the State Bank .. ..... . . . .            . 13124 192.7                202.7         260.0         270.0          856.8
b. Loan from the Oovernnet - IDA and Sweden FLnds       .     82.5          s4.6          67.L            -             -           2Th.5
Total Borrowings .                                   213.9         257.3         270.1        160.0         170.0        1,071.3
2.  Dovernront CGontributions to Cap't.al- . . . .. . . . ..         30.0          35.C            -            _              -            65.o
3.  loan Ccllecticns    . . . . . . . ..1.         . .I.5                          123.9         14C.1        1W2.6     l     L6.0          65C.1
4.  Deposits Recelved (Net increase) .        .... ... . .          .  7.9          11.c         16.5          19.6           26.5           79.5
5,  Miscellaneous Creditcrs    . ....       . . .. . . .               C.2           0.3           0.3           0.3           C.4            1.5
6.  Income from Operaticns:
a. Interest on Ltan,2a   .     ...   .... . .                 42.2          48.3          64.5          72.7          76.4          304.1
b. Cther Incomael  .     .  .  . ..... .... . ..               1.2           2.1           2.1           1.4           1.5            0-3
Total Inacaw from Operations.                        43.4          50.4          66.6          74.1          77.9          312.4
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS .395.9                                     474.7         491.8         396.6         620.8        2,179.8
APP'LICATION O FUNDS
1. Ilans Granted ............... . .                       ...      214.0         264.1         274.1         160.0          170.0       1,082.2
2. Repayment of Borrowings
a. Advances from the State Bank . . . .                      130.5         155.9         110.1         142.6         146.0          715.1
b. Loan from the Government - IDA FundsW.-                                    -            8.6           5.5           8.6           25.7
Total Repay7ment of Bcrrowings           . .        130.5         155.9         148.7         151.1         154.6          7L0.8
3. Deposits for Income Tax ....... . . . . . .           ....         5.6            5.4         11.1          13.0          11.3           L66.
1.  Disbursements for Kiscellaneous Assets . . .                       2.1           2.2           2.8           3.0           3.6          13.7
5. Expenses
a. Irnterest on Borrowing.W . .......... .. .                 16.7          20.2          24.6          26.7          27.1          115.1
b. Salaries and Allowances .    .......... . .                13.1          16.0          19.3          23.1          27.9           59.6
c. Other Erpenses .... .        .   .  ...........             2.9           3.4           4.0           4.9           5.9           21.1
Total Ecpenaes .     . . .. . . ........            32.7          38.7           45.5         51.0           56.0          223.9
TOTAL FUNDS API'LIED                         .        .                                       3 . ..........2  .4  81.8  1o0.4  2 116.7
NET DISP3ASE IN   blNDS ..1.0.. 7..  7. ...4                                                   4.8          20.4           61.1
1 As agreed with IDA in Credit 117-FAX.
2o,' Taken at'-  6.5% average per snn,. for all loans granted to June 30, 1969
8% per annos for all raw ,edlum- aid long-term loans
7% per annurn for all new short-term loane
3/  Includes 1% comnitment charge on the undisbursed balance of all new loans from July 1, 1969.
4/ During the 7eriod only payments on IDA Credit 76-PAK are due.
/ 3% per annus on State Bank loans and 4% on IDA loans frcm Governrent.






PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AaRICCLTURAL DEVELOPPENT BAEK
PROJECTED STATEMNT OF NET INOOME DURIN3 THE FISCAL TEARS INDICATED
1967L68/                196~1686               1690                   197   1                197   2                  197
Rs M   Rs 536.5 ii     Rs M   Rs 646.5 M2     RsN    Rs 724.8        Rs M   Rs.913.4 a      Rs M   Rs 989.1 i/      Rs N   Rs 1.009.8 i/
Interest on  oans/ . . . . . . . . .    35.1        6-55        42.2       6.53       48.3        6.67       64.5         7.06       72.7        7.35       76.4          7.57
Other IncomeL/  . . . . . . . . . . .    1.2        0.23         1.2       0.18        2.1         0.29        2.1        0.23        1.4        0.14        1.5          0.15
Total Income  . . . . . . . . .   36.3        6.78        43.4       6.71       50.4        6.96        66.6        7.29       74.1        7.49       77.9          7.72
EXPENSES
Interest on Money BorrowedW      . . . . .  15.2    2.84       16.7        2.58       20.2        2.79       24-4         2.67       26.7        2.70       27.1          2.68
Salaries and Allovances . . . .         10.4        1.94        13.1       2.02       16.0         2.20       19.3        2.11       23.1        2.34       27.9          2.76
Rent and Office &Kpenses  . . .          0.5         0.09        o.6       0.09        0.7         0.10        0.8        0.09        1.0        0.10        1.2          0.12
Provision for Depreciation  . . . . .    0.2        0.05         0.3       0.05        0.3        0.04         0.4        0.04        0.4        0.04        0.5          0.05
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts     3.4        o.63         2.3       0.36        2.8        0.39         2.7        0.30        0.4        0.04        0.4          0.04
Other Expenses  . . . . . . . . . . .    1.9        0.35         2.3       0.35        2.7        0.37         3.2        0.35        3.9        0.39        4.7          0.47
Total Expenses   . . . . . . . .  31.6         5.90       35.3       5.45       42.7         5.89       50.8        5.56       55.5        5.61       61.8          6.12
NET INCOME BEFORE TAE          . . . . . . . .      0.88         8.1       1.26         7.7        1.07       15.8        1.73       18.6        1.88       16.1          1.60
APPROPRIATION OF NET INCaKE
Provision for Taxese  . . . . . . . .    3.3        0.61         5.6       0.87         5.4        0.75       11.1        1.22       13.0        1.31       11.3          1.12
Reserves   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1.4         0.27        2.5        0.38        2.3        0.32        4.7        0.51        5.6        0.57        4.8          0.48
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4.7        0.88         8.1       1.25         7.7        1.07       15.8        1.73       18.6        1.88       16.1          1.60
1/ Actual Figures
/ Average loan portfolio for the fiscal year of which:
loans made before June 30, 1969 are estimated to decline to Rs 592.7 M in 1969/70; Rs 512.3 M in 1970/71; Rs 370.9 N in 1971/72 and Rs 226.6 N in 1972/73
short-term loan average portfolio estimated to be Rs 100 M per annum from 1969/70
3/ Taken at: 6.5% average per annum for all loans granted to June 30, 1969
8% per annum for all new medium- and long-term loans from July 1, 1969
7% per annum for all new short-term loans from July 1, 1969
i   Includes 1% commitment charge on the undisbursed balance of all loans made from July 1, 1969                                                                                          Li
J   3% per annum cn State Bank loans and 4% on IDA loans from Government
6/ At 70% of Net Profits






PAKISTAN
THIRD CREDIT FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROJECTED STATEYNT OF RESOURCES. LIABILITIES. AND CAPITAL AS OF DATES INDICATED
June 30, 19681'        June 30, 1969           June 30, 1970           June 30, 1971             June 30, 1972            June 30. 1973
Change from            Change                     Cagqm                    Change frqm              Change frqm
Ra M            Rs M      6/30/68L'      Rs M    6/30/693/      Rs N       6/30/707/      Rs M      6/30/71?/      Rs M      6/30/72N/
RESOURCES
Cash and Due from Banks  . . .       13.4            24.4       11.0         31.9       7.5           39.3         7.4           54.1     14.8            74.5     20.4
Investment in Government Securities   9.0            10.5        1.5         11.9       1.4           13.9         2.0           16.0      2.1            18.5      2.5
Loan Portfolio . . . . . . . . . . 582.5            689.1      106.6        829.5     140.4          960.86/     131.3          977.8     17.0         1,001.4     23.6
Deposits from Income TaxD  . . . .    1.8             7.4        5.6          5.8       (1.6)          5.9         0.1            6.9      1.0             6.2     (0-7)
Other Assets . . . . . . . . . . .    4.5             4.8         0.3         5.3       0.5            5.7         0.4            6.2      0.5             6.8      o.6
Total Resources . . . . . . . 611.2            736.2       125.0        884.4    148.2        1,025.6       141.2         1,061.0    35.4         1,107.4     146.4
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Paid-up Capital  . . . . . . . . . 110.0            1140.0      30.0        175.0      35.0          175.0          -           175.0       -            175.0       -
Surplus Reserves (See Annex 2) . .    4.0             1.7 /      (2-3)5/       4.0       2.3            8.7        4.7           14.3      5.6            19.1      4.8
Reserves for Taxes4/ . . . . . . .    3.7             9.3         5.6         7.7       (1.6)          7.8         0.1            8.8      1.0             8.1      (0-7)
Liability for Money Borrowed:
State Bank  . . . . . . . . . 342.1            343.0         0.9        379.8      36.8          442.4       62.6          459.8      17.4           483.8    24.0
IDA Funda . . . . . . . . . . 117.3            119.8       82.5         264.2     64.4          323.2        59.0          314.7      (8.5)         306.1     (8.6)
Deposits . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22.6            30.5         7.9         41.5      11.0          56.o        114.5          75.6     19.6           102.1     26.5
Other Liabilities  . . . . . . . .   11.5            11.9         0.4         12.2       0.3          12.5         0.3           12.8      0.3            13.2      0.4
Total Liabilities . . . . . . 611.2            736.2       125.0        884.4     148.2        1,025.6       141.2        1,061.0     35.4         1,107.4    46.4
1/  Actual figures.
2/ Increase or decrease (      ) in Rs Million.
3/ Net of reserve for bad and doubtful debts.
4/ The practice is for incon   tax to be paid in advance. The actual amount of tax paid (as determined later, usually
after a lapse of a few years) is then credited against reserve for taxes. The amounts shown do not take into account
possible offsetting entries and are net of estimated tax payments.
5/ The change in surplus is net of adjustments made to bring reserves for bad debts to 10% of estimated accounts overdue.
6/ Assistance under proposed Third IDA Credit is only up to June 30, 1971.



