CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 157 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 157 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Agricultural Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1969


﻿Erodptuent (Tubit Agrermunt
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1969, between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Agricultural Development
Bank of Pakistan have requested the Association to assist
in the financing of a lending program for agricultural de-
velopment which will, inter alia, facilitate the purchase of
farm machinery and the installation of tubewells;
WHEREAS the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
will, with the Borrower's assistance, carry out or cause to
be carried out this lending program and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Agri-
cultural Development Bank of Pakistan part of the proceeds
of the development credit provided herein; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
and the Association;
Now   THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modification thereof (said General Conditions Appli-


﻿4
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions) :
(a) the words "or the Project Agreement" are added
after the words "Development Credit Agreement"
in Section 8.02.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the :ollowing meanings:
(a) "Agricultural Bank" means the Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank of Pakistan established under the Agri-
cultural Development Bank Ordinance, 1961 of the
Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the Agricultural Bank of even
date herewith, providing for the carrying out of the
Project, and shall include any amendments thereof
made by agreement between the Agricultural Bank
and the Association;
(c) "Agriculturists" means the agriculturists as defined
in the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance,
1961 of the Borrower; and
(d) "medium- and long-term loans" means loans with
maturities of eighteen months or more.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars
($30,000,000).


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories II, III, IV, V and VI of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of fifty per cent (507) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in
the estimate of such payments for goods or services in-
cluded in Category I, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such
Category as required in order that withdrawals of the
amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and


﻿6
not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services included in
such Category.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made:
(i) under Categories II, III, IV, V and VI of the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement on account of pay-
ments in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories of the Borrower; or
(ii) on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on,
or in connection with the importation or supply of,
goods or services included in Category I of said
allocation f' the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. The currelicy of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1c) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per


﻿7
cent (1/2 of 1%o) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1  /) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit involving U.S. $100,000 equivalent or more c.i.f. port
of entry in Pakistan, which will be purchased by a single
borrower of the Agricultural Bank, shall be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February
1968, and in accordance with such other procedures supple-
mentary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods shall be subject to the prior approval of the Associa-
tion. The Borrower shall cause goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, which by the
terms of the preceding sentence need not be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding, to be pro-
cured through regular commercial channels. The Borrower
shall endeavor to maintain the competitive situation cur-
rently existing among suppliers of farm machinery oper-
ating within the territories of the Borrower and shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
could affect such competitive situation.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be


﻿used exclusively for carrying out the purposes of the Proj-
ect, except as the Association may otherwise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial, agricultural,
engineering and economic practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action which
shall be necessary on its part to enable the Agricultural
Bank to perform all its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and shall not take any action that would interfere
with the performance of such obligations by the Agricultural
Bank.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall relend in the currency of the
Borrower the amounts of the Credit which may be with-
drawn in respect of Categories 1, II, III, IV and VI of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement, or the equivalent thereof, to
the Agricultural Bank on the following terms:
(i) interest at 4o per annum on the principal amount
outstanding from time to time; and
(ii) amortization in twenty years including five years
of grace.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-


﻿9
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower and the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) -'he Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
,SECTIoN 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the exe-
cution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the auditors
of the Agricultural Bank to evaluate all overdue accounts
owing to the Agricultural Bank, to estimate probable bad
debt losses, and" to recommend an amount to be set aside
as a reserve against bad debt losses, all in accordance with
generally accepted auditing principles and procedures.


﻿10
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall issue import licenses
for each particular make of farm machinery to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the
Agriculturists' demand for each particular make. The Bor-
rower shall calculate such demand from loans approved by
the Agricultural Bank.
SECTION 4.09. During each of t1 -Borrower's two fiscal
years 1969/1970 and 1970/1971, the Borrower shall issue
import licenses and make the foreign exchange needed
therefor available for a minimum quantity of tractor spare
parts, including tractor tires, for each tractor make im-
ported into the territories of the Borrower from a country
member of the Bank and Switzerland, of a total c.i.f. value
of not less than ten per cent (10o) of the total c.i.f. value
of such tractor make imported into the territories of the
Borrower during the -five calendar years immediately pre-
ceding the calculation of the minimum yearly quantity. The
Borrower ,,all ensure that foreign exchange for the pur-
chase of such spare parts and tires may be obtained on the
same terms as are applicable to obtaining foreign exchange
for those tractors which are imported concurrently during
the same two fiscal years.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall take measures to es-
tablish, and to maintain until the Credit has been disbursed,
an adequate level of domestic prices for farm machinery
and spare parts thereof, including tractors, tractor spare
parts and tractor tires.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-


﻿11
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the Agricultural Bank shall have failed to perform
any covenant or agreement under the Project Agree-
ment and such failure shall have continued for a
period of sixty days; and
(b) the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance, 1961
of the Borrower shall have been suspended, termi-
nated, repealed or amended in such a way as to
materially affect the powers, duties, functions or
responsibilities of the Agricultural Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the measures specified in Section 4.10 of this Agree-
ment shall have been taken; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Agricultural Bank shall have been duly
authorized and ratified by all necessary action.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the Gen-


﻿12
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association:
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Agricultural Bank and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Agricultural Bank in accordance with
its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of September 30, 1969 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02, 4.08 and 4.09 of this Agreement shall termi-
nate on the date on which this Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date twenty-one years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Secretary to the Government of Paki-
stan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan


﻿13
Alternative address for cables:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WVITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Tubewells                               9,450,000
II. Tractors, assembled or unassembled
(including freight and insurance)      11,200,000
III. Tractor implements and other farm
machinery (including freight
and insurance)                           4,000,000
IV. Power tillers and implements
(including freight and insurance)       3,000,000
V. Spare parts for tractors previously
financed by the Association
(including freight and insurance)       2,300,000
VI. Farm management services                   50,000
Total    30,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of
the Categories I to VI shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will, at the request of the Borrower, be reallocated
by the Association to any of the other Categories, if the
estimate of the cost of items included in such other Category
shall have increased, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in
respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's agricultural devel-
opment program to assist farmers in improving their farm-
ing practices. It consists of two parts as follows:
Part I. A program of medium- and long-term loans to be
made by the Agricultural Bank to Agriculturists
during the period ending December 31, 1971 for
tubewells, tractors, tractor implements and other
farm machinery, power tillers and power tiller
implements;
Part II. The importation and distribution of spare parts
for farm tractors over the period ending Decem-
ber 31, 1971.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following procedures will be followed for any inter-
national competitive bidding:
1. The Agricultural Bank will submit to the Association
for approval the tender documents, forms of contract
and the description of the proposed tendering proce-
dures. The timing between calling of bids and bid-
opening shall be not less than 21 days and not less than
45 days between the award of contracts and delivery.
2. Before a contract is awarded, the Agricultural Bank
will submit to the Association for approval, a summary
of the bids received and a brief justification of the
proposed award. In comparing bids the following rules
shall be observed:
(a) Bid prices offered in respect of goods produced
outside the territories of the Borrower shall consist
exclusively of the following components:
(i) the c.i.f. landed price of such goods; and
(ii) the handling and dealer's commission in respect
of such goods.
(b) Bid prices offered in respect of goods assembled
within the territories of the Borrower shall consist
exclusively of the following components:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods, after deduction
of taxes and duties, levied on the importation
into the territories of the Borrower of component
parts of such goods; and
(ii) the handling and dealer's commission in respect
of such goods.
3. As soon as the contract is signed, the Agricultural Bank
will send a certified copy of the contract to the Asso-
ciation.


