Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7131-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
May 14, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
US$1.00 = Rb 5747 (market rate, April 23, 1997)
Rb 100 = $0.017
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric System              US System
1 meter (m)         =      3.2808 feet
1 kilometer (km)    =      0.6214 mile
1 square meter (m2)   =    1.196 square yards
1 metric ton (ton)         1,102 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARPP - Annual Review of Portfolio Performance
BEA   - Bureau of Economic Analysis
BEAP - Bureau of Economic Analysis Project
CAS   - Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR  - Country Portfolio Performance Review
EFF   - Extended Fund Facility
ESW   - Economic & Sector Work
EU    - European Union
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
GOR   - Government of Russia
IMF   - International Monetary Fund
MOE  - Ministry of Economy
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
OED   - Operations Evaluation Department
SAL   - Structural Adjustment Loan
SNA   - System of National Accounts
TAL   - Technical Assistance Loan
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Director:          Yukon Huang
Division Chief:    Pradeep Mitra
Task Manager:      Marsha McGraw-Olive



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
Table of Contents
1.     INTRODUCTION    ..........................................   1
II.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK  .........                       ......................   4
A. Supply and Demand for Economic Advice ........................  4
B. Institutional Framework  .      ..................................  5
C. Plans and Programs ....................................... 6
III. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ..............                                               8
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ........           ......................  8
B. Lessons of Experience ..................................... 8
IV.    THE PROJECT ...........................................  11
A. Project Objectives .     .....................................  11
B. Project Description .    .....................................  11
C. Project Management and Evaluation ...........................  13
V.     THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ........................  15
A. Approach and Justification ...........          ......................  15
B. Governance Structure .     ....................................  16
C. Clients ...........................................    17
D. Organizational and Management Structure .......................  17
E. Work Program   ........................................  19
F. Legal Framework ....................................... 20
G. Cost Recovery, Budget and Financing Mechanisms  .....             ............  21
VI.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  22
A. Project Costs . ................................. 22
B. Status of Project Preparation  ...............................  24
C. Project Implementation Arrangements ...........           ...............  25
D. Procurement . ................................. 25
E. Disbursements .............................  27
VII.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ..............................  30
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .32



Appendices
The Project
1.   Performance and Monitoring Indicators
2.  Improving the National Accounts
3.   Project Cost Tables
4.   First-Year Implementation Plan
5.   Procurement Plan
BEA Governance Structure and Organization
6.   Approved Charter
7.  Internal Rules and Regulations of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
8.   BEA Operations Manual: Table of Contents
9.   Governance Structure of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
10. Staffing and Reporting Structure
Work Program and Staff Development
11. Work Program of Policy Studies
12. Output Table
13. External Outreach Program
14. Evaluation Policy
15. TORs for Training Needs Assessment
16. Supervision Plan



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          In the short span of fifteen years, policy analysis has become a mainstay of modern
economic management. As distinct from policy research, which is more academic and less time-bound,
policy analysis is tied to a specific decision point in government. Policy analysts, who are generally
trained in economics and statistics, consider both the consequences of alternative public policy choices
and the likelihood of their implementation. Public agencies in industrialized economies rely heavily on
policy analysts and when the desired skill base is lacking in government they turn to consultants for
specialized advice. In some cases, consulting firms or institutes fill government needs when civil service
or other prohibitions prevent the analysts from being hired directly.!'
1.2          Capacity for economic policy analysis has been steadily improving in Russia since 1992,
but is still very weak both in and outside government. Capacity constraints are becoming acute as the
reform agenda grows more complex. The Government of Russia (GOR) succeeded in reducing consumer
price inflation by reducing the fiscal deficit. The stabilization effort is being supported by a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement agreed with the IMF in March 1996. With the most evident
deficit reduction measures already taken, Russia needs to deepen structural reforms to sustain
macroeconomic stability and lay the basis for sustained growth.
1.3          The Bank has worked closely with the IMF and the Government to develop a
comprehensive agenda of structural reforms in areas such as privatization and enterprise restructuring,
financial sector reform, fiscal management, and the social safety net. Further work is required in each
area to translate this agenda into a detailed and monitorable package of policy actions. This will entail
intensive economic policy analysis to assess options that maximize allocative efficiency and promote
welfare.
1.4          However, elaboration of structural reform programs, and economic management more
generally, are complicated by the shortage of qualified economists in Government and by an institutional
setting for economic policy advice that is fragmented and in flux. The Government recognized the
limitations of employing ad hoc working groups during development of the EFF and requested Bank
support to build more sustained institutional capacity in public agencies for high-quality economic policy
analysis.
1/    Weimer, D. and Vining, A., Policy Analysis: Concepts and Practice, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice
Hall, pp. 9-11.
-1 -



1.5           The project concept was developed during a day-long brainstorming session in Moscow
in February 1996 attended by representatives of the core economic ministries, leading Russian economic
policy institutes, the Bank, and the EBRD. Based on an institutional analysis of the supply and demand
for economic policy advice2', and on a study of lessons of international experienceT', the group agreed
that there was a significant shortage of economic policy analysts in Russia compared to like-sized
economies that was undermining the development and implementation of structural reforms. They agreed
that establishment of a new governmental bureau for this purpose should be explored. Thereafter, a Bank
mission visited Moscow in early April to assess stakeholder views on such a body, and agreed with
Governmental representatives on the outlines of a charter and governance structure. The mission found
broad stakeholder support for the project, including from the Ministers of Finance and Economy.
1.6           On July 2, 1996, a founding body met to adopt the Charter and nominate the Board of
Trustees and Board of Directors of the Bureau of Economic Analysis. All of the leading economic
agencies of Government are represented in the governance structure, as well as eminent economists in
the Presidential Administration, Central Bank of Russia and Duma. After the presidential elections in
June 1996, minor changes to the Charter were discussed with the Bank and adopted by the Board of
Directors in December 1996. The BEA is registered with the Ministry of Justice as an independent not-
for-profit foundation.
1.7           The proposed Bureau of Economic Analysis Project (BEAP) recommends IBRD financing
of US$22.6 million to support the project for the following reasons, each of which is developed in
subsequent chapters:
*      it would address a critical skills and institutional gap in the supply and demand for
economic policy advice (chapter 2);
*      it incorporates the lessons of experience and would support the Bank's country strategy
(chapter 3);
*      it would finance high-priority economic policy studies in support of the transition to a
market economy and finance training and technical assistance to increase Govermnent
capacity to prepare the national accounts and high quality economic analyses (chapter 4);
*      it would create the BEA outside of Government but accountable to it, to provide an
objective, economy-wide perspective in assessing policy options, to carry out an agreed
work program of policy studies at Government request (chapter 5);
2/     Avramov, Roumen and Elena Kononenko. Supply, Demand and Institutional Analysis - Summary Paper.
Background Paper for Russian Economic Policy Institute Project, World Bank, 1996.
3/     Yoon, Suzy. International Experience of Economic Policy Institutes. Internal Background Paper for Russian
Economic Policy Institute Project, World Bank, 1996.
-2-



*      it would establish mechanisms for payment by ministries using the BEA as a market test
for its services, while avoiding contracts from private sources, to reduce conflicts of
interest (chapter 6); and
*      it would confer significant benefits in developing economic policy and the structural
reform agenda. Steps have been taken to minimize the risks under various scenarios
(chapter 7).
- 3 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
II. THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
2.1     Economic management and structural reform are complicated in Russia by an institutional setting
for economic policy advice that is fragmented and in flux. As views on the state's role in the economy
change, the market for economic advice is realigning both in terms of supply (economic research
institutes) and demand (from the President, Government, Duma, and the business community).
A. Supply and Demand for Economic Advice
2.2          As of 1991, there were 61 economic research institutes in Moscow specializing in
theoretical and applied economic research. Most (54) were attached to ministries and state committees,
including GOSPLAN, while the remainder were part of what became the Russian Academy of Sciences.
They were funded almost entirely from the budget. Although overstaffed and ideologically oriented, the
system after 1985 was sufficiently permissive to allow individual economists to be exposed to market-
economy principles. The first wave of reformers and business elites emanated from this community.
2.3          By 1994, prompted by enthusiasm for market principles, the number of organizations
carrying out economic research grew by 30 percent. They sought to fill the demand by business interests
and Government for analysis of current economic trends. The older institutes, which retained a mentality
more suited to the central allocative mechanism of the Soviet state and its branch and functional
ministries, were neither oriented nor positioned to meet the more short-term needs of the emerging
market. Their best researchers left, some to the new independent institutes, whose principal clients are
outside Government. Funding channels remained largely unchanged (directed by ministries to affiliated
institutes), but budget support declined on average by 40-60 percent while overheads (social security and
utilities) escalated. The financial squeeze forced the institutes to seek income from sources other than
their traditional public-sector clients. Nevertheless, salaries in scientific and economic research were,
by 1993, 35 percent lower than the economy-wide average.
2.4          Meanwhile, given the turbulent political background, the focus of strategic economic
decisions and their implementation has been shifting. There is increased demand for economic analysis
from the Duma, but it generally parallels the political outlook of the faction requesting advice.
Governmental ministries, not fully aware of their role in a transition economy, continue to request
traditional but short-lived programming documents from affiliated institutes.
2.5          The resulting reduction and consolidation of economic research institutes has been uneven,
such that weaker institutes may enjoy partial funding while some stronger institutes are at risk. The still
developing situation is not yet market-driven in that the present structure reflects neither the comparative
advantage nor the quality of the institutes. Increased funding from private sources for these institutes is
-4 -



not a solution for government, given the potential conflict of interest in many sensitive areas of economic
policy.
B. Institutional Framework
2.6          In addition to the imperfect supply and demand structure, three institutional issues are
inhibiting the flow of economic advice in support of macroeconomic and structural reforms:
Lack of Analytical Objectivity. The market is "feudalized" into domains dominated by
a particular individual, group of interests, or government institution. In the unstable
climate, institute tasks and functions are often hostage to political or vested interests.
*     Disconnectionfrom Policy Process. With few exceptions, institutes do not enjoy access
to current information or to senior decision-makers (Deputy Prime Minister level and
above). Most are independent or report to ministries or state departments that technically
fall outside of Government. Research funded from external sources is at particular risk
of having little influence on the decision-making process.
Incoherent Policy Advice. The fragmentation of advice along narrow issues, provided to
multiple government users, has prevented the emergence of more coherent
macroeconomic or "general equilibrium" framework for decision-making.
2.7          As noted in the next section, these difficulties were temporarily overcome from 1992-95
through an ad hoc arrangement that developed outside existing institutional channels.
2.8          Economic Policy Advice in Support of the Reform Program, 1992-96. During 1992-96,
the economic reform program was developed and managed by a handful of reformist Government
officials. Most were located in the core economic ministries (Finance and Economy) under the First
Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs or in GKI (State Property Agency). Their ability to drive
the policy agenda, however, was unrelated to their institutional affiliations. More important was their
participation, in 1992-94, in the Working Center for Economic Reform, or after 1994, on the Economic
Reform Commission under the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economy. While ostensibly part of
Government, both bodies functioned more as in-house consulting firms to senior policy-makers. These
two groups, whose members overlapped, were the central nervous system of the reform program. They
developed and coordinated the macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform agenda underlying the
Bank's two Rehabilitation Loans, SAL I, and the Fund's Stand-by Arrangement and EFF.
2.9          The analytical needs of the reformist officials were met in the early stages primarily by
two Government institutions: the Center of Economic Forecasting and Analysis and the Center of
Information and Social Technologies. These had important advantages over other existing institutes
because they were granted access to current information and exposure to the policy process. Systematic
linkages between the core economic policy team and the older institutes atrophied.
- 5-



2.10          At the same time, efforts to increase capacity in the core economic ministries was initially
constrained by the shortage of qualified economists and low civil service payscales. As new graduates
with high-quality training began appearing in 1994, and external financing for international and Russian
economic expertise became available, the problem was temporarily eased. In the Ministry of Finance,
the matching of international expertise with recent graduates dramatically increased the Ministry's
capacity for macroeconomic modelling and analysis, which has been a critical component in the success
of stabilization efforts.4'
2.11          Recently, however, the cream of the younger talent pool has begun to leave the core
ministries for better remuneration in the private sector, and reliance on international experts, never an
ideal solution, cannot be maintained indefinitely. Due to financial constraints, the Center of Economic
Forecasting and Analysis has nearly ceased operations while the Center of Information and Social
Technologies has closed. All of the remaining institutions in research and policy analysis have been
weakened by under-funding and competition from the private sector. Capacity is insufficient to handle
the quantity of cross-sectoral analysis required for second-stage transition issues.
2.12          In summary, a critical demand has appearedfor objective and coherent economic policy
advice to inform strategic economic decisions during the next stage of the transition. This demand cannot
be met by the skill base presently available in existing institutes and ministries. Nor would the
strengthening of a single existing governmental structure provide a sustainable solution given civil service
restrictions that affect all publicly-supported ministries and institutes.
C. Plans and Programs
The Government
2.13          The Government's medium-term economic strategy includes actions to: (i) continue a
restrained macroeconomic policy stance as a precondition for sustained growth; (ii) strengthen Russia's
capacity to implement macroeconomic policy through the introduction of requisite instruments and
institutions; and (iii) advance structural reforms that can consolidate stabilization and enhance prospects
for sustained growth.
2.14          As part of its capacity-building strategy, the Government requested Bank financing to
support the establishment of the BEA. The initial request for financing, proposed in October 1995 by
the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economy, was confirmed in a letter to the President of the World
Bank by the Minister of Economy in April 1996 and again to the President by the First Deputy Prime
Minister for Economy in Moscow in April 1997. In the absence of the project, a structural reform
agenda as ambitious as that agreed with the IMF will-be difficult to implement. Independent of the EFF,
however, the demand for sound economic policy advice will outpace existing institutional capacity as
more complex second-stage transition issues supersede the stabilization-oriented agenda of the past several
4/     Financing for the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic unit has come from the EU, US Treasury, and World
Bank.
-6 -



years. The BEAP responds to the high priority placed by government on grounding the next phase of
reforms in objective economic analysis
External Donor Assistance
2.15         Most donors have targeted elements of the reform  agenda for support, such as
privatization or agriculture. Few have focussed on strengthening capacity for cross-sectoral policy
analysis. The IMF, EU, USAID, Bank and other organizations have made important contributions in
building skills related to public finance and fiscal policy, including in the Ministry of Finance and Central
Bank. The EU is also supporting the Russian - European Centre for Economic Policy, which is a
collaborative organization. But the needs in government for analytic capacity far outweigh the aid
provided to date.
2.16         There are several organizations which could be counterparts to the BEA, for which
twinning arrangements would be very useful. These include the Economic Development Institute of the
Bank, the OECD, and bilateral agencies with similar functions, such as the U.S. Council of Economic
Advisors or the Korean Development Institute, and statistical agencies, such as EUROSTAT and Statistics
Canada. Such contacts were initiated during project preparation and will be developed further by the
Scientific Secretary of the BEA, who will coordinate external donor support as part of the External
Outreach Program (see Appendix 13).
2.17         In addition, the Bank and BEA are in touch with several interested donor agencies to
support the proposed project by providing experts in areas under analysis by the BEA, by offering
fellowships for advanced study of macroeconomics and policy analysis, and by financing study tours to
provide comparative international experience in a given policy area. Commitment in principle to provide
grant support has been secured from several agencies.
-7 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
III. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1           The Russia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is scheduled to be discussed by the Board
in June 1997. The proposed Bureau of Economic Analysis Project (BEAP) is fully consistent with the
objectives of the CAS and with operational standards for project quality:
*      Responds to the government's request for assistance in grounding reforms in high-quality,
objective economic analysis;
*      Builds institutional capacity for fiscal and economic management, which is a key
structural reform priority;
i      Supports fiscal consolidation by financing the core analytic work required to develop the
Government's tax reform strategy;
*      Helps accelerate the structural reform program by strengthening capacity in government
to assess reform options in key areas such as privatization and enterprise restructuring;
private and financial sector development; social safety net and agriculture;
3      dMeets the quality at entry standards for new projects adopted during recent CPPRs;
e      Incorporates lessons of experience for institutional development projects, as outlined
below, including through increased attention to borrower commitment, governance
structure, and organizational management.
B. Lessons of Experience
3.2    Lessons of Experience from  Institutional Development2' TALs.  Technical assistance loans
(TALs) are traditionally among the weakest performers in the Bank portfolio. The rating for TALs in
the 1996 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP) was particularly poor.6' While the causes of
poorly performing Bank TALs are a source of continuing debate, OED findings suggest that governance
problems and weak management have been two main reasons for poor past performance of TALs. A
special study commissioned in response to the 1996 ARPP confirmed an additional finding: that borrower
5/     The Bank distinguishes between substitution TA, where consultants and advisors fill short-term gaps in local
capacity, and institutional development TA (IDTA), which aims to build capacity by strengthening local skills and
institutions.
6/     Only 3 projects were rated satisfactory of 16 projects evaluated. Annual Review of Portfolio Performance 1995,
Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank, November 1996, pp. 45-46.
-8-



commitment to the project's intent, design and strategy is the critical, but not sole, determinant of good
performance. -
3.3     The fluid institutional and political environment in Russia makes it particularly important to
ensure strong ownership of project objectives by a broad spectrum of government and institutional actors.
This project had its origin in a special brain-storming session during project identification that included
representatives of core economic ministries (the demand side of economic advice) and key economic
research institutes (the supply side). Two studies were commissioned for the meeting: one on the
institutional setting for economic advice in Russia, and the other on experience internationally of
economic policy advice to governments.0' After a full day of discussion, the session recommuended the
establishment of a new institution combining design features of various successful institutes. Following
this, a survey of prominent stakeholders (including the Ministers of Finance and Economy) was
undertaken to ensure broad consensus for project objectives and the organizational design.
3.4     The Bank has been involved in promoting research networks and economic policy institutes in
a number of countries. It supported the Korea Development Institute, the Thai Development and
Research Institute, and economic research networks in the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa.
However, these predominantly involved grant resources coordinated from a number of donors rather than
loan financing, as in the proposed project. Nevertheless, a relevant lesson of experience is the need to
ensure demand for a new institute's services. This has been discussed with stakeholders, who agree that
payment by ministries for policy analysis is a desirable proxy for a market test.
3.5     Lessonsfrom  Bank TALs in Russia. The Bank's experience with TALs in Russia underscores
the importance of these lessons of experience. Earlier projects in Russia9' demonstrated the importance
of strong Borrower commitment to the project objectives, design and strategy, as noted above, as well
as to design issues affecting institutional performance. In this regard, governance structure and strong
project management have proven to be of critical importance.L°' A significant amount of time during
preparation of the proposed project was devoted to designing an appropriate governance structure that
would suit the legal and institutional environment in Russia as well as the project objectives. In addition,
the organizational structure combines the need for strong project management with the Russian tradition
7/      Heather Baser and Peter Morgan (with Nimrod Raphaeli), Review of Technical Assistance Loans in the World
Bank, February 1997. This is the most recent of a series of Bank efforts to diagnose and address TAL problems. Other
examples consulted in the course of project preparation include the Technical Assistance Handbook (1993), Operations
Policy and Best Practices 8.40 (1994), and Technical Assistance: Lessons and Practices, OED, (1996).
8/      Avramov, Roumen and Elena Kononenko.  Supply, Demand and Institutional Analysis - Summary Paper.
Background Paper for Russian Economic Policy Institute Project, World Bank, 1996, and Suzy Yoon. International
Experience of Economic Policy Institutes. Internal Background Paper for Russian Economic Policy Institute Project, World
Bank, 1996.
9/      The Employment Services and Social Protection Project and Portfolio Development Project both required
restructuring due partly to different levels of commitment to the project by various project stakeholders.
10/     Although the Portfolio Development Project was not designed as an institutional development project, the
governance structure and management of the implementing agency contributed to its unsatisfactory performance. The
Government addressed these issues when the project was restructured in February - April 1997 by strengthening the
governance structure and clarifying the role of the implementing agency.
- -



of shared authority within a hierarchical framework. Finally, the project team drew upon the lessons of
experience of other non-profit institutes that have recently been established in Russia.
3.6    Related Interational Experience. Economic policy institutes have flourished internationally in
the last fifty years. Although these institutes or councils differ greatly from one country to the next in
terms of their size, modus operandi, and institutional arrangements, some key factors distinguish effective
institutes. The central factor determining success is that the research and policy advice of the institute
is viewed as a national priority. This and other factors, which have been noted in designing the project,
include:
*      association with a powerful government agency while remaining outside the formal
bureaucracy;
*      direct access to/influence on key policymakers;
*      secure sources of financing;
*      staff composed of a small but elite group of top academics in the economics field;
*      attractive and competitive salaries to retain top academics; and
*      a clear mandate to conduct economic research and formulate policy in the best interests
of the national economy as a whole.
- 10 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1   Due to shortcomings in the institutional framework, the Government has very limited capacity
to produce cross-sectoral analyses grounded in modern, market-based economics. This has constrained
the development and implementation of structural and market-oriented reforms. The proposed project
will address the principal institutional shortcomings and demonstrate the value of objective economic
policy advice as an essential component of national economic policymaking.
4.2   The principal development objective of the project is to build institutional capacity for sound
economic analysis in support of market-oriented and structural reforms. To meet this objective, the
project has three sub-goals:
a.    to increase the quantity and quality of cross-sectoral economic policy studies for use by
Government;
b.    to establish the BEA outside of Government but accountable to it, to provide an objective,
economy-wide perspective in assessing economic policy options; and
c.    to improve the reliability of the national accounts as the basis for sound economic
analysis.
4.3    The performance indicators (Appendix 1) were agreed at negotiations. They are designed to
monitor both the project outputs and impacts in terms of their utility, quality, and efficiency of
production. Project outputs will provide for sounder economic analysis based on more reliable National
Accounts and economic data and the integration of macroeconomic and welfare considerations into
sectoral and economic reform options. The principal project impact is expected to be the preparation of
detailed action plans in support of the Government's medium-term economic reform agenda. Based on
project outcomes, the Government is expected to positively assess the value of retaining this institutional
model.
B. Project Description
4.4   The project will finance three components:
a.    Policy Studies (US$11.0 million). This component would finance four products: (i) an
annual report on the state of the economy; (ii) quarterly indicators of economic
performance; (iii) medium-term policy studies on cross-sectoral topics in support of the
structural reform agenda; and (iv) quick-response notes in response to developments in
the policy environment. The BEA would manage the budget for delivery of these
products, which could generally be produced in cooperation with economic agencies
and/or institutes.
- 11 -



b.     Establishing the Bureau of Economic Analysis (US$17.5 million). Included in the BEA
component are several categories of investment and incremental recurrent costs needed
to establish the BEA, build capacity in policy analysis, and develop technical and
institutional linkages to domestic and international institutes.
c.    Improvement of National Accounts (US$6.8 million). The component would finance
computers, training, and technical assistance to help Goskomstat, the national statistical
agency, accelerate its present efforts to develop an integrated framework of national
accounts useful for economic and financial analysis and policy decisions.
4.5    Policy Studies (US$11.0 million).  Development and implementation of the Government's
structural reform agenda will require in-depth analyses from an economy-wide perspective, taking into
account the inter-relationships among industries, taxpayers and consumers. To this end, the BEA would
manage the budget for production of a number of outputs, some of which may be produced in
collaboration with other agencies or institutes, but with the BEA maintaining quality control. The most
important output would be medium-term policy studies in several areas (see Appendix 11), including
macroeconomic analysis and growth strategies, financial markets, enterprise economics and social policy.
Financing would be provided for local consultants, data requirements such as surveys, and if necessary,
international experts to assist in the completion of each study, which is expected to take approximately
three to six months. These studies will be focused on high-priority themes (for example, taxation or
pension reform) that are expected to lay the basis for significant policy decisions that are likely to impact
savings and investments and fiscal revenues and expenditures. These studies would be the BEA's core
product, consuming approximately 50 percent of its time. The themes chosen for the studies would
provide the central chapters of the annual report on the state of the economy, which would also discuss
economic trends and conditions based on the quarterly economic indicators produced by the BEA.
Production of the annual report and quarterly indicators are expected to consume another 25 percent of
the BEA's time.  The BEA will also need flexibility to respond to requests from senior officials on
developments in the policy environment. For this purpose, approximately 25 percent of the BEA's time
is expected to be spent producing quick-response policy notes.
4.6    Bureau of Economic Analysis (US$17.5 million). The justification for establishing the BEA,
its governance structure, and operational procedures are discussed in Chapter 5. This component would
finance the technical and human resource base needed to increase capacity for economic policy analysis
both in the BEA and in the core economic ministries. These expenditures would include: (i) computer
and information technology needed for the BEA's statistical analysis and for linkages with Goskomstat,
the core economic ministries, and Russian and international academic institutes. Included in this activity
would be development of a library and on-line databases to facilitate the research needs of its staff and
consultants; (ii) training, study tours and fellowships both for BEA staff and for government staff
participating in policy studies, to develop analytic skills based on modern, market-based economics in
core economic agencies; and (iii) office furnishings to establish the BEA's premises. The incremental
recurrent costs, to be financed on a declining basis, would include managerial and support staff salaries,
internal communications (meetings of the Boards of Trustees and Directors and Academic Council), and
publications.
4.7    The BEA component would also include the budget of the External Outreach Program (Appendix
13), which will produce and distribute the annual report and quarterly economic indicators and promote
exchanges between the BEA and academic institutes, both in Russia and abroad, by means of conferences,
- 12 -



seminars, and twinning arrangements. The purpose of the External Outreach Program will be to further
cooperation within Russia and internationally on economic policy issues in the BEA's work program.
4.8    Cooperation with the Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the World Bank. Given its
experience internationally and in the region, EDI is well-positioned to provide BEA with assistance in
many areas, and in particular, training on economic policy analysis with a sectoral focus and technical
assistance on consensus-building and dissemination of analytical work. A formal arrangement is under
discussion whereby EDI will assist BEA in identifying training needs in policy analysis, and by
developing the first two training seminars for BEA staff and consultants and selected ministry staff. In
addition to offering technical assistance and training, BEA professional staff may compete for access to
EDI programs such as: (i) mid-level career training at the Joint Vienna Institute; (ii) a Scholarship
Program for study at any accredited university worldwide; and (iii) the Robert McNamara Fellowship for
post-graduate research. After the BEA has developed its policy study and external outreach programs,
EDI will consider establishing a formal partnership with the BEA, which would provide a stronger
network of training and institutional support.
4.9   Improvement of National Accounts (US$6.8 million). The main economic policy tools (fiscal,
monetary, and exchange rates) of a market economy cannot be applied on a sound basis to promote
growth with stability unless a good set of national accounts and data on other macroeconomic variables
are available. Goskomstat, the state statistical agency, has initiated several measures to adjust to the data
needs of a market economy and to compile GDP estimates through the production and expenditure
approaches based on the 1993 System of National Accounts (SNA). Despite notable progress both in
Goskomstat and by other data-collecting agencies, additional work is needed to accelerate the development
of an integrated framework of the national accounts. The component would make a significant
contribution to this objective by financing computer equipment, training and technical assistance needed
to improve the quality of economic statistics by improving data collection, upgrading the information
base, and by refining the methodology of computations.  The work program would follow the
recommendations in Russian Federation: Report on the National Accounts, produced in October 1995 by
a Joint Team including Russian agencies, led by Goskomstat, and international experts, led by the World
Bank.
C. Project Management and Evaluation
4.10   Project Management. The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to BEA and
Goskomstat on a grant basis. The Borrower agreed that the project would be managed in accordance
with an Agent Agreement between the Ministries of Finance and Economy, on one hand, and the BEA,
on the other. The Agent Agreement specifies the mechanism for payment of the local cost contribution
and taxes on the part of the Borrower. According to the Agent Agreement, which must be signed as
a condition of loan effectiveness, BEA is obligated to facilitate the strengthening of institutional
capacity in government agencies in the area of economic policy analysis and studies, and to support
the implementation of Part C of the Loan (Goskomstat component) through procurement and
disbursement services. The respective roles of BEA and Goskomstat in project implementation are
outlined in the Operations Manual. In summary, all substantive matters regarding the improvement of
the National Accounts would be managed by Goskomstat, and BEA would make available its expertise
in procurement and disbursement for this purpose to Goskomstat.
- 13 -



4.11   Monitoring and Evaluation. Evaluation will occur in the project at the following levels: (a)
project impact (overall impact in achieving development objectives); (b) BEA operations (the efficiency
and effectiveness of Bureau operations); and (c) impact of policy studies (relevance of objectives to
priority requirements). The plan for evaluating overall project impact is discussed in Appendix 1,
Performance and Monitoring Indicators and in Appendix 14, Evaluation Policy. The evaluation plan was
incorporated in the Operations Manual and the Project Agreement, both of which were approved by
the Board of Directors as a condition of Board Presentation.
4.12   BEA agreed to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor the
achievement of objectives in line with project indicators. BEA agreed to furnish a report to the Bank
by June 30, 2000 that integrates the results of monitoring and evaluation activities. These shall be
discussed between the BEA and the Bank as part of the Mid-term Review, which would occur by
September 30, 2000.
- 14 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
V. THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Approach and Justification
5.1          The Government continues to develop and implement structural reform programs and
national economic policy with only minimal levels of analytic support grounded in the framework of
modern market-based economics. It has attempted to obtain the policy studies and analyses needed with
a variety of ad hoc arrangements relying on both Russian and foreign experts located in both
governmental units and non-governmental institutes. Experience has highlighted the shortcomings of this
approach:
*     Analysis and advice currently provided is fragmented, tends not to be cross-sectoral or
cross-ministerial, and varies widely in quality.
*     Current government procedures (civil service salaries, incentives for quality, etc.) are
insufficient to attract and retain staff with the required skills within the government and,
hence, to sustain needed analytic capacity.
a     Procuring services from private institutes or consulting firms is not a good substitute for
the government having its own capacity, given the need for confidentiality and lack of
scale economies stemming from distributing work among many groups.
*     Government experience with grant financed foreign experts has strengthened its belief
that it must have capacity funded by resources under its control.
5.2          The BEA is proposed to remedy these shortcomings. It will be a major source for the
government of policy reports, studies, and reports on economic issues, and it will report regularly to the
government on the state of the economy. Its status as a foundation outside the government would free
it from governmental procedures and constraints. The presence on the BEA's governing boards of
representatives from its clients-the major units of the federal government with principal responsibility
for economic policy-would assure the BEA's responsiveness and accountability to governmental needs.
5.3          The BEA is a non-commercial entity set up as a foundation under Russian law. It will
therefore not be restricted by governmental salary scales or personnel practices, and will be in a position
to offer levels of remuneration and support facilities that will allow it to compete effectively with the
private sector for the high quality staff required to produce the products needed by policy makers. An
Academic Board will help to ensure the quality of its staff and its output. The BEA's position outside
the government will ensure the independence and objectivity of its work and increase its ability to take
a cross-sectoral or cross-ministerial view of economic issues.
- 15 -



B. Governance Structure
5.4          A summary of the governance structure of the BEA is shown in Appendices 6 and 7
(Charter and Internal Rules and Regulations). Following the requirements of the Law on Non-
Commercial Foundations, the BEA was established on July 2, 1996 by two non-governmental founders
who then formed a General Assembly comprised of founders (Academy of the National Economy and
the Higher School of Economics) and participants (the principal governmental economic agencies as well
as non-governmental representatives). The Assembly's principal responsibility is to approve the Charter
and appoint the Trustees and members of the Board of Directors.  Trustees and Directors are
representatives of the institutions or governmental units which comprise the Assembly. The Assembly
has no executive functions.
5.5          The Trustees advise on the overall strategic direction of the BEA, monitor its finances,
and promote its efficiency. Through its Chairman, the Trustees propose the candidate for the position
of BEA President to the General Assembly.  Trustees are ministerial level officials and eminent
individuals in the Presidential Administration, Duma and economics profession. The Chairman of the
Board of Trustees will be the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economy. The Trustees are expected to
meet at least annually.
5.6          The Board of Directors provide the primary managerial oversight of the BEA. The Board
approves the annual work program of the BEA, appoints the Academic Council, approves large contracts
above US$ 250,000, reviews and approves the BEA's annual budget, and organization and staffing plan
and changes to the Operations Manual. The General Assembly elects the Chairman, who is normally
either the Minister of Finance or Economy, with one of the Deputy Chairmen (two are elected by the
Board) representing the alternate ministry. The Minister of Economy was appointed on July 2, 1996 to
be the first Chairman of the Board of Directors.l' Board members must attend Board meetings in person
with no substitutes and are chosen to represent their institutions or ministries. The Directors are expected
to meet at least quarterly.
5.7          The Academic Council will serve a quality control function. It has no managerial or
statutory responsibilities. It would assist in maintaining high quality standards by reviewing and advising
the Director General and Board of Directors on staff qualification requirements, the qualifications of
proposed staff, and the substantive outputs of the BEA's work program. It would also evaluate the
performance of the BEA  periodically.  Members--individuals (including non-Russians) with an
international standing in the economics profession--are appointed by the Board of Directors. The list has
been prepared by a task force headed by the Minister of Environment, who is also highly respected as
an economist, and members are in the process of being invited. At negotiations, the BEA confirmed that
the Academic Council had been constituted and that international experts would be invited to join the
Council before Loan effectiveness.
5.8          The management structure of the BEA includes a President and Director-General. The
President is a non-salaried official who provides strategic guidance on government priorities by means
of his nomination by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees. He would serve as a liaison between the
11/ During the Government reorganization in March 1997, the Minister of Economy became Minister (without portfolio)
for economic policy and Deputy Director of the Economic Reform Commission. He remains Chairman of the Board of
Directors.
- 16 -



Government and BEA. The Director-General, who is appointed by the Board of Directors, is the chief
executive officer who manages the day-to-day work of BEA. Both positions and their functions are
described in the Charter (Appendix 6).
C. Clients
5.9          With its main focus on national economic policy, the BEA's main client is the First
Deputy Prime Minister for Economy, who, as Chairman of the Board of Trustees, will be the ultimate
arbiter of priorities for the BEA's work program. The BEA will work primarily with the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Economy, Central Bank and others according to its mandate in formulating and
carrying out its work program, but will also interact with ministries and committees that become clients
of the BEA or that regulate sectors central to the BEA's work program. The principal governmental
clients for the BEA's policy studies, policy notes, research, and periodic reports on economic conditions
will initially be:
i.    The First Deputy Prime Minister for Economy
ii.    The Ministry of Economy
iii.    The Ministry of Finance
iv.    The Committee for State Property (GKI)
v.    The State Committee for Statistics (Goskomstat)
vi.    The State Committee for Antimonopoly Policy
vii.   The Central Bank of Russia
5.10         As a major user of economic data, the BEA will need to interact extensively with
Goskomstat on data issues. As a data user, the BEA will be a client of Goskomstat. At the same time,
one of the BEA's activities will involve upgrading the quality of economic statistics and data needed for
economic policy work. Consequently, Goskomstat will also be a client of the BEA's for its upgrading
initiatives.
5.11         Some of the BEA's outputs will be intended for the public as client. Most notable of
these public reports will be the BEA's annual report on the state of the economy. This report will attempt
to assess overall economic conditions and trends, evaluate the objectives and performance of economic
policy, and present relevant economic data in an accessible format.
D. Organizational and Management Structure
5.12         Key sections of the Operations Manual outlining the organizational and staffing structure,
along with the functional organizational chart, are in Appendix 10.
5.13         Operating Principles. The BEA would be guided by several principles that are included
in the Operations Manual. These are objectivity and impartiality in its analytic work, cost-effectiveness
in its operations, coordination (to prevent duplication of effort), creativity, respect for confidentiality, and
high ethical standards and transparency. The duties and responsibilities of the BEA's executive
management as outlined in the Operations Manual are consistent with these principles, ensuring
uniformity, effectiveness, and transparency of operations. The Bank and BEA agreed on a draft
Operations Manual which was subsequently approved by the Board of Directors on April 24, 1997 as
a condition of Board Presentation. The BEA agreed that any amendment of the Operations Manual
shall be acceptable to the Bank.
- 17 -



5.14          Organizational Structure. The Executive Management of the BEA consists of the
following entities: (a) Executive Management, represented by the Director General; (b) Policy Analysis;
(c) Scientific Secretariat; and (d) Administrative and Accounting Departments. The Director General's
primary responsibilities are to ensure that the objectives of the project are attained in the most effective
manner; to successfully manage the BEA's financial, human and material resources; to represent the BEA
in dealing with other organizations; and to report to the governing authorities of the BEA in accordance
with its Charter. The Policy Analysis Department is the largest department and is responsible for the
BEA's outputs, primarily policy studies (discussed in Section E). It is headed by the Director-
Coordinator of Programs. The Scientific Secretariat, headed by the Scientific Secretary, cooperates
closely with the Policy Analysis Department. It is responsible for international contacts, seminars and
conferences, exchange programs and training, external donors and sponsorships, liaison and coordination
with Russian academic institutes, publishing and public relations. Finally, the Administrative and
Accounting Departments, also headed by managers, will be responsible for management of financial
resources and accounting, personnel, administrative and office support, and procurement. BEA agreed
that: (i) it shall, at all times, employ a Director General and a Deputy Director General, a Chief
Accountant and a Scientific Secretary, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Bank; and (iii) by December 1 of each year starting in 1998, the BEA shall prepare its organization
and staffing plan for the following year, acceptable to the Bank.
5.15          Policy Analysis Department. This is the main operational output unit. As its scope of
work is highly variable and unpredictable, the Department will be organized on a matrix basis, with most
of the substantive work sub-contracted to consultants or organizations. Five group managers, with
support from a specialist in resource planning, will manage the program under the direction of the
Director-Coordinator of Programs. The group managers' scope of duties has been determined by the
expected initial work and is functionally divided as indicated in the staffing tables. These are expected
to evolve in light of changing priorities. However, there would always be a manager of statistics and
data.
5.16.         The group managers will initially have a limited number of direct subordinates. The
Resource Planning Specialist will assist in assigning researchers/economists and support staff (primarily
computer operators) to individual outputs. The work, e.g., a policy study, will be allocated to a project
manager, who will carry out the planning and implementation of the assignment. His or her assignment
plan will show the need for internal and external resources (either from ministries, Russian academic
institutes or foreign or Russian experts), on either a full or part-time basis. The internal resources
(researchers, support staff) will be allocated to the particular project managers in accordance with the
assignment plan/schedule of staff prepared by the Resource Planning Specialist. The external resources
needed (individuals or organizations) will be subcontracted in cooperation with the Procurement
Specialist, in accordance with BEA rules and Bank procedures. The initial Staffing Table is shown in
Appendix 10.
5.17.         Staff Remuneration.  Staff remuneration policies and Terms and Conditions of
Employment are described in the Operations Manual. The BEA will maintain salary levels competitive
with the market rate in private and international organizations in order to attract the best candidates for
like positions. The basic salary scale was based on a local comparator study commissioned in November
1996 based on similar functions in foreign institutions and the Resident Mission. The BEA salary system
consists of a grading system that ranks positions in terms of responsibilities, required level of qualification
- 18 -



and job complexity, and a salary scale that ranges from I to 20. Salary reviews will take place regularly,
and all salary adjustments must be approved by the Director General.
E. Work Program
5.18          During negotiations, the BEA agreed that each year, it would prepare for approval by
its Board of Directors a work program that must be consistent with the Government's economic reform
priorities. It would consist of studies, either planned or of a quick-response nature, that are requested
by an outside client or initiated by the BEA. The first-year work program (Appendix 11) was developed
after assessing the needs of client agencies and establishing priorities in light of the national economic
agenda. From these general categories, terms of reference have been prepared for the first year of policy
studies. These have been reviewed by the Board of Directors. The Operations Manual governs the scope
and execution of the work program. An Output Table identifying the source, management and nature
of BEA outputs is shown in Appendix 12.
5.19          The work program should contribute to furthering market-economy and structural reforms
in Russia. Within this objective, the three principles guiding the selection and orientation of BEA's
analysis will be growth, efficiency and equity. Using these principles, the Board of Directors has
identified the highest priorities for studies in the medium-term as being in macroeconomic analysis and
public finance, financial sector reform and enterprise economics, social policy and growth strategies.
Topics would be selected after the completion of an overview paper that identifies the major problems
amenable to policy reform and assigns priorities to the analysis of each problem. Priorities for analysis
will be determined by rough estimates of: (i) the pay-off from policy reform; (ii) the costs of reform;
and (iii) the likely speed or realizable schedule of policy reform. The assignment of priorities will be
based mainly on economic costs and benefits, although at times judgments about the political feasibility
of reform will be needed. High priorities for analysis will be those that produce large net benefits
quickly.
5.20          The BEA will work within an economy-wide perspective and consequently take into
account the inter-relationships between industries, consumers and taxpayers. In particular, the BEA will
test the claims of those proposing sector or enterprise-specific advantages through regulation or
protection. Both through a unit specialized in social sector analysis and, where feasible, by incidence
analysis of impact of policy options on households, the BEA would seek to advance the Government's
welfare objectives in making these assessments. To support this analytical work, the project will finance
improvements in Goskomstat's methodology for household income surveys.
5.21          A priority in the short term will be to build upon the achievements of the past several
years by developing a comprehensive medium-term economic program for 1997-98 that would guide the
1998-99 transformation of the Russian economy to a market-based system. This will require developing
and expanding upon the policy agenda outlined for 1996 (included in the EFF) in the selected areas of
BEA focus, e.g., taxation and financial sector reform. The objective would be to help domestic agencies
by performing appropriate analysis in support of development of an action plan.2/
12/   In this regard, the BEA would be an important counterpart to the Bank/Fund team in monitoring the EFF agenda.
- 19 -



5.22         As a medium-term target the BEA will develop a consistent framework from which to
analyze the diverse range of government policies and programs. The intention will be to indicate the
most important options to promote the guiding principles of growth, efficiency and equity.
5.23         Work program priorities would evolve in light of national priorities. Examples of the
types of issues that might be explored within each theme include:
*     Macroeconomic Analysis and Public Finance: macroeconomic and growth strategies,
taxation of natural resources, budget priorities, intergovernmental fiscal transfer
mechanisms
*     Growth and Efficiency: private financial markets; savings and investment; regulatory
policy (including monopoly and pro-competition); sectoral performance (agriculture,
industry, infrastructure, energy); international economics (trade, external debt, balance
of payments).
*     Developing social sector reforms: employment, incomes and poverty.
F. Legal Framework
5.24         Rationale for Non-Commercial Foundation Status. The BEA was established as a non-
commercial foundation, which is a legally autonomous entity pursuant to the Civil Code. This legal status
allows the BEA to have independence and thus, greater objectivity in its analytic work. Moreover, civil
service salary scales are not sufficient to attract the quality economists needed for it to become a viable
policy analysis institute, and Russian law prohibits civil servants from receiving payments that exceed
official salary scales. The establishment of BEA as a non-commercial foundation followed the precedent
set in several Bank projects, including the Management and Financial Training Project (3824-RU) and
the Legal Reform Project (4035-RU), under which the National Training Foundation and the Foundation
for Legal Reform were founded as non-commercial foundations.
5.25         Accountability to the Government.  Nevertheless, the BEA will be accountable to
Government by means of its Charter, the Government decree permitting the BEA's establishment (Decree
# 1025 dated July 1, 1996), a second Government decree (to be issued) establishing the regulatory
framework for Government participation in the BEA, and the documentation supporting the Bank Loan.
As a condition of negotiations, the Government confirmed the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economy
as Chairman of the Board of Trustees. The General Assembly, which approved the Charter and
appointed the Boards of Trustees and Directors, is comprised of the principal economic agencies of
Government, including the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Central Bank, Goskomstat, the
State Property Committee (GKI) and the State Anti-Monopoly Committee. Well-respected academic
institutes, including the Academy of National Economy and the Higher School of Economics, comprise
the remainder of the institutional representatives on these bodies. The BEA has been established pursuant
to a Government decree. The Charter requires a majority of the Boards of Trustees and Directors to
be representatives of governmental agencies. In addition to the Loan Agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower (GOR), the BEA agreed on the contents of a Project Agreement with the Bank.
5.26         Legal Establishment of the BEA under Russian Law. The BEA was registered with the
Ministry of Justice according to Russian law, for which it had to complete the following actions to
establish itself as a legal foundation: (i) convened a Founders' meeting, at which time the Founders,
which are required to be non-governmental institutions, invited governmental bodies to join as Participants
- 20 -



of what then became the General Assembly; (ii) the General Assembly adopted the BEA's charter,
elected the Board of Directors and Board of Trustees, and named its Director General; (ii) approved and
officially signed off on the minutes of the Founders' meeting; (iii) registered with the Ministry of Justice
as a legal entity, which required, inter alia, that the BEA have an official address. Each of these steps
has been completed. Given that the BEA is registered as a legal entity, it can officially open a bank
account and hire staff.
G. Cost Recovery, Budget and Financing Mechanisms
5.27         Cost Recovery. In order to lay the basis for financial sustainability over the medium
term, the BEA will require that agencies contribute to the cost of each study. The BEA will need to
develop a reputation for excellent analytical work in order to derive significant cost recovery for its
studies. Until such reputation is established, the BEA has reached agreement with the Ministry of
Economy on interim procedures to govern MOE's contribution to the first-year work program.
Thereafter, the Scientific Secretary will be designated as the BEA official in charge of business
development for the purpose of canvassing client ministries to assess cost recovery potential. The
objective would be to express the needs of client ministries as actual and specific demand supported by
funding.
5.28         Budget and Financing Mechanisms. BEA's budget will depend on its work program,
which will in turn dictate its human resource needs. The first-year staff and consultant budget was
developed by BEA and approved by the Bank on the basis of the draft work program. It is expected that
this will evolve with experience during the course of the year, on which basis amendments would be
needed for the following year's budget. Similarly, BEA's financing plan will evolve annually according
to improvements in cost recovery. Consequently, BEA agreed that, by an agreed date each year, BEA
shall submit to the Bank for review its proposed budget andfinancing plan, which must be satisfactory
to the Bank. The Government will finance its share of BEA's annual expenditures through the
Ministry of Education, which will in turn pass the funds to the BEA. The financing mechanism is
included in an Agent Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and BEA. As a condition of
negotiations, the Government provided a draft Agent Agreement, which was acceptable to the Bank,
that specifies the commitment of the Borrower to contribute its local cost share, as identified in the
annual budget. Signing of the Agent Agreement between the BEA and Borrower is a condition of loan
effectiveness.
- 21 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
VI. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
6.1           The total project cost is estimated at $36.8 million, including contingencies amounting
to about $2.8 million and taxes amounting to $2.4 million. The Bank would finance about $22.6 million
or 61 percent of total project costs. Project costs include technical assistance (both foreign and local),
equipment, training, and incremental operating costs on a declining basis incurred during the
implementation period. The estimated project cost summaries are shown in Tables 6.1 and 6.2; the
detailed cost tables are given in Appendix 3.
Table 6.1: Estimated Project Costsa'
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes)
Foreign as
Local        Foreign         Total    % of Total
Policy Studies                  5,424.3        4,543.1        9,967.4        46%
Bureau of Economic Analysis     14,402.5        1,652.6      16,055.1        10%
Goskomstat                      3,881.3        2,554.2        6,435.5        40%
PPF Refinancing                   741.1          758.9        1,500.0        50%
Base Costs                      24,449.2        9,508.8      33,958.0        28%
Price Contingencies             2,103.7          710.9        2,814.6        25%
TOTAL PROJECT COST             26,552.8        10,219.7      36,772.6        28%
i Totals may not add up due to rounding.
- 22 -



Table 6.2: Project Financing Plan'
(US$ million, including contingencies and taxes)
Local          Foreign        Total       % of Total
GOR                          13,220.5            982.7    14,203.2            38.7%
World Bank                   13,332.3          9,237.1     22,569.4           61.3%
Total                        26,552.8         10,219.8    36,772.6             100%
% of Total                   72.2%             27.8%        100%
' Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Assumptions in Estimating Project Costs
6.2           All project costs are based on December 1996 prices. Project costs were estimated as
follows:
a.    Investment Costs ($19.2 million)
*      Technical Assistance (TA).  TA costs were derived from  recent fees quoted for
comparative specialized services in Bank-financed projects in Russia. Both foreign and
local consultants will be responsible for any tax liability incurred in the course of the
project.
*      Most of the research and analysis conducted by the BEA will be carried out with the
assistance of local consultants contracted on both short- and long-term bases. The cost
estimate for local consultants is between $2,000 and $4,000 per person-month.
*      Some foreign TA  will be needed to guide BEA  staff and local consultants in
internationally-recognized analytical techniques in selected policy areas. The cost of
foreign TA is estimated at US$20,000 per person-month, which includes fees, travel,
housing and subsistence, and overheads.
*      Training. The cost of participating in training programs abroad was calculated at $8,000
per person-month, and was based on the cost of programs similar to those envisioned
under the loan. This cost includes the training itself, travel, housing and subsistence, and
insurance.
*      Equipment. Equipment unit costs were based on recent quotations from local suppliers
in Moscow.
- 23 -



b.     Recurrent Costs ($17.6 million). The Bank would finance incremental recurrent costs
on a declining basis over the life of the project, from about 80 percent in year 1 to 20
percent in year 5.
Incremental Staff. Incremental staff costs were estimated on the basis of a November-
1996 study of current competitive rates for local staff in the private sector and in
international financial organizations operating in Moscow.
c.     PPF ($1.5 million). In order to assure a smooth start-up following loan effectiveness,
the PPF will be used to finance initial establishment of the BEA, including refurbishment
of the facilities, rent, furniture, initial office technology equipment, office operating costs,
staff salaries, training, and consulting services.
6.3           Local Cost Contributions. The GOR would finance the following costs:
*      Rent. Based on the terms of a five-year lease signed in February 1997, monthly rent and
utilities are $650 per square meter per year. The BEA will occupy and pay rent on
approximately 500 square meters of office space and have access to another 500 square
meters of facilities, to include conference rooms, a library, and an auditorium. The
additional area is being financed by the GOR as part of its local cost contribution.
*      Operations and Maintenance (O&M).  The GOR would finance the O&M  of all
equipment purchased under the project (e.g., computers, xerox machines, etc.), which
is estimated at 5 percent of equipment cost.
*      Contributions to Policy Studies. A Government contribution is required for each output
requested by a Government agency. In all cases, this would include the time of ministry
staff assigned to work on the study team led by the BEA. A financial contribution is also
expected in the first year of project operation. Financing for each study requested by a
government agency will be transferred from the budget of the respective ministry. The
BEA already received a contract for two of its first-year studies.
B. Status of Project Preparation
6.4           The so-called "CPPR Conditions", agreed for all projects in the Russia program by the
Government and Bank in February 1996, have been fulfilled. This includes hiring of the start-up team,
(including the Director-Coordinator of Programs, the Manager of Administration, Chief Account,
procurement specialist, and a senior economist). All procurement documentation for critical first-year
activities has been received, including terms of reference and lead consultants or staff for the first group
of policy studies. The lease has been signed for BEA premises, and temporary offices are available while
minor refurbishment is being undertaken. A contract has been signed with a management consultant to
assist with initial procurement, to establish procurement and accounting systems, and to train BEA staff
in these areas. This preparatory step should ensure rapid initiation of project activities upon loan
effectiveness.
- 24 -



C. Project Implementation Arrangements
6.5          Components A and B of the project would be implemented by the BEA, and component
C would be implemented by Goskomstat with assistance in procurement and disbursed from BEA. BEA
has been formed as a non-commercial foundation reporting to the First Deputy Prime Minister for
Economy. The Minister for economic policy and Bank Alternate Governor was appointed Chairman of
the Board of Directors. A Board of Trustees chaired by the First DPM for Economy was also
designated. A Director General is designated and has been confirmed by the Board of Directors and a
President (non-paid liaison to Government) has been appointed by the First Deputy Prime Minister for
Economy. The BEA is registered as a legal entity. Candidates for the Academic Council, to be
comprised of eminent economists, both Russian and foreign, have been identified and are being invited
to participate. The Academic Council will provide quality control for staff appointments and BEA
outputs. Guidance for institutional and project management is included in the Operations Manual. Start-
up costs were financed by a sub-project under the Portfolio Development Loan (3844-RU). A PPF was
approved for final preparation and early implementation activities.
6.6          Implementation would be phased in a gradual manner. During year 1 more effort would
be devoted to obtain the office equipment, computer equipment, Local Area Network, customization of
software, books and publications for the Library, and fewer policy related work as compared to Year
2. Year 1 staffing is initially expected to be about 27 (see Appendix 10). Project Administrative Unit
staff would consist, inter alia, of a Procurement Specialist who would be trained in the Bank's
Procurement Procedures, and who will be responsible for the procurement of goods and other services.
6.7          It is envisaged that the BEA, inter alia, may be required to quickly respond to the
Government's request for flexible response papers which may be about 25% of the BEA's annual work
program. In order to carry out tasks of such exigent nature, the Bureau would have to develop
streamlined procurement procedures for acquiring specialists depending on the needs of the Government.
These assignments are likely to be small, short-term contracts. To employ consultants on short notice,
while still permitting adequate Bank oversight, the BEA and the Bank agreed on an appropriate
procurement plan wherein BEA would develop a roster of consultants from different disciplines and
experience, through advertisement and further screening. The BEA would submit the consultant's roster
(which is to be updated periodically) for the Bank's review and comments. The funds set aside for the
tasks described above would be capped at, e.g., no more than 25 % of the annual budget and an aggregate
of $1.5 million.
D. Procurement
6.8          All Bank-financed works, goods and consulting services will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1981), and
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (1981)
respectively. International Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS) procurement will use commercial
documentation acceptable to the Bank that will be adequate for later review and audit purposes. The
BEA's Administration Department will be responsible for tracking procurement actions and approvals as
well as periodic reporting to the Bank on procurement progress. Additional details on expected
procurement actions are provided in Appendix 5. A summary of procurement categories and procurement
methods is shown in Table 6.3. A General Procurement Notice will be issued in the second quarter of
1997.
- 25 -



a.    The majority of procurement actions under the proposed project will be for consulting
services. To insure that the standard of consultants procured under the project is of
sufficiently high quality, the BEA will submit for Bank's prior review, terms of reference
for all consulting contracts. In addition, the BEA will develop a roster of Consultants
in various disciplines based on a competitive recruitment process. The qualifications of
the candidates selected by BEA management will be pre-screened by the Academic
Council prior to their review and no-objection by the Bank. In this manner, high quality
standards will be maintained while providing flexibility to BEA.
b.    Technical Assistance and Consulting Services.  Approximately US$8.5 million in
Consulting Services contracts will provide foreign and local technical assistance for
individual specialists/advisors, studies, training programs, seminars, and workshops
arising under two major components of the project (i.e., Policy Studies and Improving
National Accounts). The procurement method to be used for acquiring Technical
Assistance and Consulting Services would be in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency, dated 1981. Under the Policy Studies component, TA would assist
the Bureau in the production of a number of regular outputs, including medium-term and
quick-response policy studies as well as the annual report on the state of the economy and
the quarterly economic indicators. Under the Improving National Accounts component,
TA would assist the Government in the improvement of the quality of economic statistics
through the provision of training, seminars, and workshops. The number of contracts
to be administered for TA and Consulting Services for these purposes under the two
components will be directly linked to the development and submission of the annual work
program of the BEA.
c.    Recurrent Costs. These costs include compensation for the BEA's professional and
support staff and operating costs of the BEA. The staff proposed to be employed should
be experienced, capable, and their terms and conditions of employment should be
acceptable to the Bank and subject to prior review. Leasing of premises for the BEA was
based on obtaining at least three quotations from rental agencies in Moscow. For all
goods and equipment purchases which fall in the category of recurrent costs, NS will be
used for contracts below $50,000. IS will be used for contracts greater than $50,000 but
less than $300,000. In addition, the Bank will conduct prior reviews of all contracts of
goods above $100,000.
- 26 -



Table 6.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
International
Competitive  International   Local    Consult.
Bidding      Shopping   Shopping   Services     Other      N.B.F        Total
Technical            -             -          -        11,088.6      -          -         11,088.6
Assistance           -             -          -        (8,555.5)     -          -         (8,555.5)
Goods                2,051.9      1,241.6     171.4      -           -          747.6      4,212.6
(1,578.4)     (768.9)   (115.7)       -          -          -         (2,463.0)
Recurrent Costs      -             -          -           -          -        16,663.5    16,663.5
-   -      -           -          -       (7,114.0)   (7,114.0)
Training             -             -          -         3,307.9      -          -          3,307.9
-  -    (2,936.9)     -          -         (2,936.9)
PPF                                -          -           -        1,500.0      -          1,500.0
-  -       -          -       (1,500.0)      -        (1,500.0)
TOTAL                2,051.9      1,241.6     171.4    14,396.5   1,500.0    17,411.1    36,772.6
(1,578.4)     (768.9)   (115.7)  (11,492.4)  (1,500.0)   (7,114.0)  (22,569.4)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by World Bank.
E. Disbursements
6.9           The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over 5 years, closing on September 30, 2003.
The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services; (ii) 100% of expenditures for
study tours and other training; and (iii) for equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports,
100% of local ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally. Incremental recurrent costs, excluding rent, would be financed on a declining
scale, from 100% in year one to 20% in year five. Table 6.4 gives the estimated project disbursement
schedule.
- 27 -



Table 6.4: Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements over 60 months (US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year -    98       99             00             01             02        03
Semester -    1       2      3       4      5      6       7      8      9      10
Per Semester(%)       4      5      11      15     16     18      16      8      5      2
Per Semester          .8    1.2    2.5    3.3    3.7    4.1    3.5    1.8    1.2   .5
Cumulative (%)        4      9      20     35      51     69      85     93     98    100
Cumulative            .8     2      4.5    7.8    11.5   15.6   19.1   20.9   22.1  22.6
Table 6.5: Disbursement by Category
Category              Amount Allocated           Percentage of Expenditures
(US$)                      to be financed
1. Goods                       1,925,000             100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
2. Consultants' services, training   11,500,000      100%
and study tours
3. Operating cost of BEA       7,675,000             100% up to an aggregate amount disbursed
from this Category of 1,900,500;
80% up to an aggregate amount disbursed
from this Category of 3,939,500;
60% up to an aggregate amount disbursed
from the Category of 5,718,000;
40% up to an aggregate amount disbursed
from this Category of 6,982,500;
20% up to an aggregate amount disbursed
from this Category of 7,675,000
4. Refunding PPF               1,500,000             Amount due pursuant to Loan Agreement
TOTAL                          22,600,000          l
- 28 -



6.10         Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars
in a commercial bank in Russia. During the early stages of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$600,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under
the loan reach $5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$
1.2 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
6.11         The commercial bank holding the SA has been chosen on the basis of open competitive
bidding, which, as a pre-condition, is required to meet the following criteria:
i.    it should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts which
would be audited by an internationally recognized audit firm;
ii.    have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
iii.   have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing
letters of credit, transacting direct foreign payments;
iv.    be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
v.    be willing and able to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited
in the SA would not be set off, seized or otherwise attached to satisfy amounts
due to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
vi.   be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by the Bank,
including regular statements, and any other information that may be
considered necessary; and
vii.   charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
6.12         Disbursements will be fully documented, except that expenditures related to training,
study tours and contracts of goods and services valued less than $100,000 would be made on the basis
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the BEA,
and made available for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
6.13         Accounts and Audits. The BEA will maintain a single set of project accounts, including
the Special Account. Project records will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). All project accounts
(including the Special Account and SOEs) will be subject to an annual audit by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be submitted to the Bank by the BEA within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
- 29 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.1          The principal project benefit in the short term will be the preparation of detailed action
plans in support of the Government's medium-term structural reform agenda. These would result from
the BEA's ability -- based on access to the necessary skills, data, and collaboration with economic
agencies -- to provide and mobilize high-quality economic policy advice directly to decision-makers in
Government, and to help integrate macroeconomic and welfare considerations into sectoral and economy-
wide reform agendas. Without the project, the lack of systematic and well-coordinated economic
analysis, especially in the design and implementation of structural reforms, is likely to persist.
7.2          As a result of the project, the Government is expected to retain and enhance the capacity
in governmental institutions for analytic economic work. The fellowships/training in mainstream
economics and policy analysis financed by the project, as well as increased experience in coordinating
policy development across ministries, will lay the basis for sustainable improvements in Government
capacity once the loan closes. The project will finance a Training Needs Assessment for economic policy
analysts in Government, that will guide BEA training strategy. Therefore, a principal benefit in the
medium-term will be sounder economic analysis based on more reliable National Accounts and improved
capacity for cross-sectoral analysis.
Risks
7.3          The accountability of the Bureau to Government poses risks that are common to all
governmental advisory bodies. The first is that the BEA's influence may rise or fall depending upon the
interests and status of its government sponsors. While close association with the office of the First
Deputy Prime Minister is the most appropriate arrangement at present, flexibility is needed in the event
of institutional changes. Second, the closer the association with senior government officials, the more
the work program may become influenced by political considerations. While accountability is important
to increase the BEA's impact, too close an association can undermine its analytic objectivity. The present
governance structure combines governmental and non-governmental representatives, with a certain degree
of flexibility to change the balance of power between them depending upon the circumstances. It also
combines accountability to a senior Government official -- the First Deputy Prime Minister -- with
accountability to economic ministries. This should help maintain the benefits of analytic objectivity while
minimizing the risks resulting from accountability to Government. However, the tension between
objectivity and accountability exists in all governmental advisory bodies and cannot be removed entirely
by the project design.
- 30 -



7.4           Another risk is the lack of a tradition of coordination and information-sharing across
layers of Government and among economic agencies, which is critical for cross-sectoral analysis. Rather,
authority tends to be concentrated in institutions headed by prominent individuals, who prefer to compete
rather than cooperate. The governance structure of the BEA has been designed to reduce the risk of
insularity by giving authority to a broader group of stakeholders (economic agencies and institutes) who
would both direct the BEA and be its primary clients. This will particularly be the case for Goskomstat,
without which the data requirements for economic analysis could not be met.
7.5    Finally, the staff recruitment process may not be sufficiently competitive to meet the quality
standards required to maintain the BEA as a center of excellence. This is a particular risk with enclave
projects because it can intensify institutional rivalries with civil servants. The risk is further intensified
if first-year products are less than exemplary. This risk has been discussed at length with BEA
management and various strategies have been developed in response. First, technical criteria for each
staff position have been developed. These would be monitored through observance of compliance with
the Bank's procurement process (competitive selection) and by the quality control function of the
Academic Council, which will review requirements for staff qualifications as well as candidates for
individual positions. Second, a training program for all BEA analysts and their key counterparts in
government will take place in the first year on the National Accounts framework and in analytic
techniques, to establish a quality standard in the early phase of the project. Finally, international
expertise or study tours are required as inputs to all policy studies up to and including year three of the
project.
- 31 -



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIAN BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS PROJECT
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1    Conditions of Board Presentation
(a)    Borrower approves results of negotiations and its agreements with the draft documents
as negotiated.
(b)    Chairman of the Board of Trustees is appointed.
(c)    The first annual work program and budget is approved by the BEA Board of Directors.
(d)    An Operations Manual (including the Internal Rules and Regulations) acceptable to the
Bank is adopted by the BEA Board of Directors.
(e)    BEA formally approves the Project Agreement as negotiated, including the Supplemental
Letter regarding the performance and monitoring indicators.
8.2    Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)    Signing of an Agent Agreement acceptable to the Bank between the Borrower and the
Bureau of Economic Analysis (paras 4.10 and 5.28).
8.3    Covenants
(a)    Organization and Management of BEA. The BEA agreed to employ at all times a
Director-General, a Deputy Director General, a Chief Accountant and a Scientific
Secretary, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank. By
December 1 of each year starting in 1998, the BEA shall: (i) prepare its organization
and staffing plan for the following year, acceptable to the Bank; (ii) prepare its work
program for the next following year which shall take into due consideration the
Borrower's medium-term economic and structural reform priorities. BEA agreed that any
amendment to the Operations Manual shall be acceptable to the Bank (paras. 5.13, 5.14,
5.18).
(b)    Budget of BEA. By December 1 of each year, BEA shall submit to the Bank for review
the proposed budget and financing plan of BEA in such detail as the Bank should
reasonably request; such budget and financing plan to identify the expenditures to be
financed by the Bank and Borrower, respectively, during the following year.  By
December 31 of each year, BEA shall submit to the Bank its final budget and financing
plan, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.28).
- 32 -



(c)    Mid-term Review and Performance. BEA shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof. The indicators listed in Appendix I were agreed between BEA,
Goskomstat and the Bank. BEA shall furnish to the Bank a report integrating the results
of monitoring and evaluation activities on or about June 30, 2000, which shall be
reviewed with the Bank by September 30, 2000 (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
(d)    Financial Covenants. The Borrower agreed to provide the IBRD, within six months of
the end of each Government fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and details
as the IBRD may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent
auditor acceptable to the IBRD (para. 6.13).
- 33 -






Appendices
The Project
1.  Performance and Monitoring Indicators
2.  Improving the National Accounts
3.  Project Cost Tables
4.  First-Year Implementation Plan
5.  Procurement Plan
BEA Governance Structure and Organization
6.  Approved Charter
7. Internal Rules and Regulations of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
8.  BEA Operations Manual: Table of Contents
9. Governance Structure of the Bureau of Economic Analysis
10. Staffing and Reporting Structure
Work Program and Staff Development
11. Work Program of Policy Studies
12. Output Table
13. External Outreach Program
14. Evaluation Policy
15. TORs for Training Needs Assessment
16. Supervision Plan






APPENDIX 1
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BEA) PROJECT: PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
Key Performance Indicators                         Measurement                        Risks and Assumptions
CAS OBJECTIVE             * Increase capacity in Government to prepare  * BEA outputs assessed by Academic       * Structural reforms in support of
and implement structural reforms that help   Council to serve national economic       transition to market economy
restore growth and reduce poverty.           reform agenda.                            remain high Government priority.
PROJECT                   * Quality and quantity control of cross-    *  GOR requests, receives and cofinances   *  Suitable staff recruited.
DEVELOPMENT                 sectoral studies on structural reform        at least 10 medium-term policy studies  *  Staff exposed to modern economic
OBJECTIVES                  options increased.                           and 20 quick response surveys by YEAR      policy analysis through training or
* Bureau of Economic Analysis operational      TWO, which is subject to an                int'l expertise.
and sustainable.                            independent external evaluation.        *  Govt demands and contributes to
* Reliability of National Accounts improved.                                              cost of studies.
*  Annual client survey positively assesses  *  Data provided to Goskomstat in
output. Results of previous year's        timely manner.
evaluation incorporated into following
year's output
OUTPUTS                   * Policy studies on key structural reform   .* Budget financing and cost recovery      *  Project management team balances
options; quarterly economic indicators;      cover 40 percent of BEA operating costs   medium-term and short-term
Annual Report on State of the Economy;       by year three, 60% by year four, 80% by   demands in work program.
economic analyses of legislative proposals;  year five.                             *  Data requirements required for
quick-response papers.                                                                 integrated National Accounts
* Integrated macroeconomic framework and    * Training or access to int'l expertise are   framework are supplied by key
methodology for National Accounts linked    systematically incorporated into           agencies (that comprise BEA
to BOP, monetary and fiscal data, and to     planning and implementation of all        Board) to Goskomstat.
surveys on the informal sector.              policy studies up to and including
YEAR THREE.
COMPONENTS/               * Policy Studies and Training.              *  Internationally-accepted standard of    *  Adequate Budgetary support
ACTIVITIES                * Establish BEA as lead agency for economic    methodology for modern-economic            provided.
analysis in Government.                      policy analysis is developed and       *  Core economic agencies reach
* Improve National Accounts through            disseminated in government by YEAR         consensus on work program.
training in methodology and improved         FOUR.                                  *  Strong commitment to project at
information technology                                                                 level of first DPM, Economy.



APPENDIX 1
PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
I.    Output Indicators
*  GOR requests, receives and cofinances at least 3 medium-term policy studies in
year one and 10 medium-term policy studies in year two.
*  GOR requests and receives at least 10 quick-response notes in year one and 20
quick-response notes in year two.
* BEA publishes an Annual Report and 2 quarterly reports in year one, and an
Annual Report and 4 quarterly reports in year two.
* Goskomstat will complete improvements in the following statistical areas by the
end of the years designated: input-output analysis by year two, the household
survey by year three, and the National Accounts by year four.
II.    Quality/Impact Indicators
-  Annual client survey positively assesses output in terms of relevance and quality.
*  Annually, the Academic Council undertakes review of BEA outputs from the
standpoint of relevance, quality and impact, and provides its report to the BEA and
the Bank. The results of the previous year's evaluation are incorporated into the
next year's output.
*  Training or access to international expertise are systematically incorporated into
planning and implementation of all policy studies up to and including year three.
* Internationally-accepted standard of methodology for modern-economic policy
analysis is developed and disseminated in Government by year four.
III.   Efficiency Indicators
* Budget financing and cost recovery cover 40 percent of BEA operating costs by
year three, 60 percent by year four and 80 percent by year five.
*  Unit cost of policy studies declines by project closing.



APPENDIx 2
IMPROVING THE NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
The statistical component of the Bureau project will contribute to improvement of short term (monthly and
quarterly) macroindicators, as well as annual estimates. The GOR needs timely and reasonably reliable
short term macro-information for monitoring economic developments and for policy decisions. It will also
finance surveys to collect data currently not available but very important for estimates of macroindicators
and for design of economic and social policy.
The component will be facilitated by a statistical group (unit) at the Bureau. ft will be staffed with five
people. Two statisticians - one high level and one of research assistant, both working on a permanent
(contractual) basis. Three high level statisticians will be working at the Bureau on secondment from
Goskomstat. The arrangements can be made for them to work on a rotation basis through annual
contracts. This will ensure a good working relationship between Goskomstat and the Bureau.
The statistical component will cover the following:
i.    Creating an                at Goskomstat for improvement of estimates of short term
macroindicators and annual estimates. This component covers the following:
a) financing procurement of hardware and software for a local area network at the Department
of National Accounts and Balance of Payments.
Creation of a LAN with powerful servers for data storage will enable statisticians to share information
allowing the Bureau to receive needed information via modem. On the other hand it has to establish links
between Goskomstat and other Government agencies data producers. Links have to be established with
Ministry of Finance (Government finance statistics), Central Bank (monetary survey) and Customs
Department (foreign trade statistics). All these data are needed on a timely basis for Goskomstat to be able
to produce estimates of macroindicators.
To ensure that the Department of National Accounts is able to use data from the department of Input-
Output analysis of Goskomstat (importance of good input-output table for national accounts is described in
the Report on Russian national accounts) hardware will be provided for this Department'.
b) financing improvement of the process of estimation of short term economic indicators.
Goskomstat has adopted a time table for estimation of monthly, quarterly and annual estimates,
reconciliation of estimates, and a general policy for revision of estimates following the recommendations
of the working group of experts authors of the Goskomstat - World Bank study on the Russian national
accounts
1 It is planned to supply the Department of Input-Output Analysis with a very limited amount of hardware and
software purchased with funds from an IDF grant, if the project will be approved.



The time table is proposed as follows:
First estimates of basic monthly macroindicators based on trends and ratios - end of the month.
Second estimate of indicators based on monthly statistics (what available) - 15 days after the month
ends.
First estimate of quarterly macroindicators based on second estimates of the first two months and first
estimate of the third month - end of the last month of the quarter.
Second estimate of the quarterly data based on second estimates of the three months - 15 days after the
third month ends.
Reconciliation of estimates for three months and quarterly estimates based on quarterly statistics - a
month after the quarter ends.
Revisions of quarterly estimates are also performed after the fourth and seventh month after the quarter
ends.
Final revision of all the quarters is done in March of the following year.
First estimates of annual data based on twelve months - in January of the following year..
Second estimate of annual data based on data for four quarters - in March of the following year.
Third estimate of the annual data based on annual statistics - in October of the following year.
Fourth estimate based on annual estimates and reconciliation with estimates for the four quarters - in
March of the year next to the following.
Fifth estimate of annual data on new benchmarks derived from an input - output table developed once in
five years - after the table is developed.
The estimates may be performed for five years back. After these estimates are done, the annual data are
considered to be final.
These changes in the revision policy schedule have to be discussed by the GOR involving Goskomstat,
Ministries of Economy and Finance, Central Bank, Customs Committee, etc. It has to be an agreement
reached on a schedule of data flows, needed for national accounts, from the government agencies to
Goskomstat, as well as flows of data from Goskomstat to the Bureau and other government agencies-data
users.
The proposed improvements in the revision policy places additional demands on the staff of the
Department of National Accounts and Balance of Payments. This project brings additional resources
needed to improve the time table and revision policy.
It is proposed to finance the incremental costs for hiring additional (up to 5) staff members at Goskomstat
for an initial two year period with an understanding that afterwards the costs to be financed by the GOR.
The new tasks and schedule will also involve training at the statistical offices of other countries -
Canada, Norway, UK and some others can be good candidates for training. It is planned to have
training sessions for 15 people. Each person will receive a month of training.



It also may involve short term consulting arrangements by experts from other countries experienced in
estimates of short term macroindicators. Funds are allocated for two months of consulting.
2.     Strengthening the collection of data critically needed for estimates of national accounts.
For development of good macroeconomic statistics the "raw' basic data are critical. An analysis of data
and problems in this area during transition is available in the joint Goskomstat-World Bank report on
national accounts. It is proposed that this project finance data collection (surveys) in two critical areas:
a) new household surveys based on changing the sample and questionnaire in the old family
budget survevy
Development of a reasonable social policy in the Russian Federation is currently affected by lack of
reliable data on household income and expenditure. The existing family budget surveys have sampling
problems that do not allow the gathering of reliable information about income distribution and expenditure
patterns. This in turn, does not allow the Government to conduct its social protection policy and develop
targeted measures to reduce poverty. The questionnaires which were designed many years ago do not
allow the collection of data on income from the non-state sector, non-cash and non-wage income,
expenditures on goods and services supplied by new emerging private enterprises, etc. The sampling
errors do not allow the gathering of reliable information on income and expenditure distribution by region
of the Russian Federation, which is very important given the size of the country, differentiation of
economic development, and price levels in the regions.
Good information on household income and expenditure is critical for estimation of national accounts. It is
the basis of estimating retail trade turnover, value and volume of services offered by the economy to the
population. for example. On the expenditure side the data are used to estimate household consumption.
On the income side of the accounts it is used to estimate household income and profits of small -
household owned businesses.The project would be launched along the lines as proposed in Mr. Juan
Muoz's report to the World Bank in January 1996, prepared after his visit to Goskomstat of the Russian
Federation (report available).
b) Survey of new private enterprises in different sectors of the economy.
Economic reform brought into the market hundreds and thousands of small, mostly privately owned
businesses in different sectors of the economy. For a number of reasons economic activities of these
enterprises are poorly captured by data collection methods employed by Goskomstat. Estimates are done
to assess the volume and value of output of goods and services produced by those enterprises. These
activities are estimated to be 20-30% of GDP. Information on these activities is very important to the
Govemment for design of fiscal policy. The share of income generated by these businesses is increasing
and has an increasing effect on execution of the state budget. It is very important to have information on
these economic activities for estimates of macroindicators which in tum are used for policy decisions.
The size of the sample will be determined in discussions with Goskomstat based on the coverage needed.
It is proposed to allocate up to $800 thousand in the project for this survey.
3.     Assistance to support the subscription of the Russian Federation to the Special Data Dissemination
Standards. (SDDS)



Goskomstat of the Russian Federation is interested in subscribing to the IMF SDDS with an understanding
that they will join the initiative in 1998. Goskomstat will start shortly discussions with other agencies -
Ministry of Finance, Central Bank, and Customs Committee about their willingness and readiness to
participate. If the discussions will end in an agreement Goskomstat will need to improve only one
indicator, from all the requested indicators which fall under Goskomstat's domain. It is quarterly
information on labor markets - employment, unemployment, wages, income, etc.
Goskomstat has launched a labor survey according to ILO methodology which is what IMF is requesting.
However, lack of funds do not allow Goskomstat to do it on a quarterly basis - it is an annual survey.
Goskomstat would need at least $600 thousand in 1997 or 1998 to launch the survey on a quarterly basis.
It is proposed to allocate in the project the above amount with the Government's understanding that
starting in 1999 GOR will finance this survey on a quarterly basis.



BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT BUDGET                         Total costs
(without taxes and custom duties)
ITEM                        TOTAL          1997       1998      1999      2000
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                 555       205        155       145         50
Equipment                         185       185
Traiinig                          250        20         80       100         50
Foreign consult. N.A.              50         0         25        25
Foreign consulting FoF             70         0         50        20
INPUT-OUTPUT ANALYSIS             710       125        515        65          5
Equipment                         125       125
Study tours                       275         0        275
Local training                     55         0         55
Pilot survey                       30         0         30
Consulting -foreign               210         0        150        60
Consulting - local                 15         0          5         5          5
HOUSEHOLD SUREVY                2,920       940      1,155       825         0
Equipment                         920       920
Training                          250                  150       100
Consulting - foreign              245        20        205        20
Consulting - local              1 505         0        500       705
QUARTERLY SURVEY
OF LABOUR MARKET                  685         0       340        345         0
Consulting -local(interviewers)   685         0       340        345
Reimbursable expenses               0
Printing and distribution           0
NEW ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES           630         0       260        370         0
Consulting - local (interviewers)  510        0        210       300
Reimbursable expenses              70         0         30        40
Printing and distribution          50         0         20        30
TOTAL                           5,500      1,270     2,425     1,750        55
5,500     1,270     2,425 r1,750 0          55
of which:
Equipment                       1,230      1,230         0         0         0
Intemational consultants          575        20       430        125         0
Local consultants               2,835         0      1,405     1,425         5
Training                          860        20        590       200        50
gooko4b.wq1



GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                       BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
COMPONEHT                   Budgetary                      Cost $000  Tax &       Contingen TOTAL       WB         GOR
item                          base        duties
National Accounts                                                 555         90                   645         416        229
Equipment                             185         64                   249        185         64
Training                              250          0                   250        143        107
Foreign consult. N.A.                  50         11                    61         40         21
Foreign consultina FoF                 70         15                    85         48         37
0          0
inout-output analysis                                             710        105                   815        563         252
Equipment                             125         39                   164        124          40
Study tours                           275          0                   275        143        132
Local training                         55         12                    67         55          12
Pilot survey                           30          6                    36         23          13
Consulting -foreign                   210         45                   255        203          52
_  Consulting - local                      15          3   _8                          15          3
0          0
!   °usenoiz survey                                             2,920        653                 ',573        677       1,896
!______________________________   Equioment                         920         286                   206        920        286
Training                              250          0                   250   _     30        120
______________________________ |Consulting   -  foreign             245         52                   297        2 2 5       72
__________- _________________ Consultinq - local                   1,505        315                 1,820        402      1,418
0          0
Quarterly survey                                                  685                              685         419        266
of labour market            Consulting -local(interviewe          685                              685         419        266
Reimbursable expenses                   0                                0          0
Printing and distribution               0                                0          0
0          0
New economic activities                                           630         79                   709         630         79
Consulting - local 4intervie          510         54                   564        510         54
Reimbursable expenses                  70         15                    85         70          i5
_____________________________ Printing and distribution     50         10                     60         50         10
0          0
00
I-OTAL_                                                         5,500        927        360      6,..27     4 ,065      2722
___________  ____ _____   ________ _ 6   ,  7  87  4,065   _ _ _ _ _ _
coskom-3
equipment                           1,230        389                 1,619      1,229        390
training                              500          0                   500        273        227
study tours                           275          0                   275        143        132
local training                         55         12                    67         55         :2
pilot survey                           30          6                    36         23          13
foreign consult                       575        123                   698        516        182
local consult                       2,715        372                 3,087      1,346      1,741
Reimbursable expenses                  70         14                    85         85          0
Printing and distribution              50         10                    60         60          C
Total Services                      4,270        537                 4,808      4,808          0
Grand total                         5,500        926                 6,427      6,037          0



BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services: Contract
SUBJECT: Development of the 1995 Input - Output Table
1.    Statement of the problem
1. 1. Background
The Russian Government jointly with the World Bank supports established
"Bureau of Economic Analysis" (further BEA or Bureau) to provide policy
analysis and advice to the Prime Minister and his Deputies, to the Government
and core economic ministries. The Bureau is set up as an autonomous foundation,
with its own Board of Trustees, Board of Directors and Academic Council. The
Bureau's work program should include studies in accordance with the priorities as
seen by the clients /users.
One of the project components is the GOSKOMSTAT component, and one of the
aims of this components is to support development of the 1995 Input - Output
table for the Russian Federation, improve the methodology for the development of
the subsequent Input -Output tables and set the framework for the utilization of
the Input-Output data for policy analysis and forecasting of economic
developments.
1.2   Description of the problem
The Goskomstat of the Russian Federation has substantial experience in
constructing Input- Output tables for the so-called material part of the economy.
However, Goskomstat lacks the necessary experience dealing with the following
issues: a)developments in the service sector; b)informal economic activities;
c)recording of activities in the environment of high inflation and relative price
movements. These issues are particularly important during the period of
economic transition.
2.    Objectives
2.1.  General objective
The general objective is to improve the institutional capacity in the Goskomstat of
the Russian Federation in the area of Input - Output analysis.



TOR TA-21 for Consulting Services   -2-
2.2.  Specific objective
To provide professional assistance and support to Goskomstat in developing the
1995 Input - Output table and analyze its results.
3.    Scope of work
3.1.  Coverage
The assistance will cover recruitment of a foreign consultant to assist the staff of
the Input - Output Analysis Department of Goskomstat.
3.2   Tasks to be carried out
The consultants will assist in the following main tasks:
a.    Analysis of information in the regular statistical questionnaires
(specifically forms 1-p, 5-z) and its utilization for development of the
1995 Input -Output table;
b.    Analysis of infornation gathered as a result of the special sample
surveys conducted by Goskomstat for development of the 1995 Input-
Output table.
c.    Analysis of the table "Resources" and recommendations for its
improvements.
3.3.  Implementation arrangements
The consultants will work at the premises of GOSKOMSTAT for two weeks and
summarize the main finding during the third week at home.
3.4.   Time
The duration of the assignment is three weeks in June 1997 - October 1997.
4.    Input provided by GOSKOMSTAT
GOSKOMSTAT will provide the consultants the following:
a.    Office space
b.    Necessary data and information



TOR TA-21 for Consulting Services   -3-
5.    Outputs and Approvals
S.).   Outputs
a.    The consultant will work for two weeks at GOSKOMSTAT
analyzing information and advising staff.
b.    The consultant will be required (week three) to produce a report
summarizing main findings and suggestions.
5.2.   Output evaluation and approval
The Head of the Department of Input-Output Analysis or his/her designee will
evaluate and approve the final report of the consultant.
6.    Required qualifications of the Consultant
a.    University degree in economics;
b.    At least 10 years experience in the field of statistical analysis with
focus on Input-Output analysis.



SEA                                                                       GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                           Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997                      1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration        Start    S|O|N|D|JIFIMIAIMIJ JIAISIOINIDIJ|F|M|A|M|J |JIAISOINIDIJIFIMIAIMIJ JIAISIN
1    COMPONENT PLAN                                                  1d  Mon 09/09/96
2    National Accounts                                              866d  Mon 09/09/96                                                               . _
3        Equipment specification                                      5d  Mon 09/09/96
13 Sep '96
4        Training of GOSKOMSTAT staff                               657d  Thu 26106197                      _               _
6           Need analysis - initial                                  30d  Thu 26/06/97
_                                __            _                      !            o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06 Aug '97,
6           Development of training plans and programs              140d  Thu 07/08/97                      *0Aui
____    |______________________________                  _                                                              _ -      18  Feb'98
7           Training plan implementation                            587d  Thu 02/10/97
8        Consulting assistance (foreign) in National Accounts       152d  Thu 15105/97
|____                      12 Dec'97
9           Develop Terms of Reference                                2d  Thu 15105/97
_____                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 6May '97
10           Approval of TOR by WB and Goskomstat                     10d  Mon 02/06/97                   | 13 Jun '97
11           Selection from shortlist                                  5d  Mon 14/07/97
| 1iJul '97
12           Approvals obtained, contract award                       10d  Mon 18/08/97                            29 Aug '97
13           Consultants start working: first assignment               Od   Fri 12/12/97
___  12 Dec '97
14       Consulting assIstance In Flow of Funds                     152d  Mon 02/06/97
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~~30    Dec   '97
15           Develop Terms of Reference                                2d  Mon 02/06/97
_____  |___   _03 Jun'97
16           Approval of TOR by WB and Goskomstat                    20d  Wed 18/06/97                            Jul'97
is                                   !
17           Selection from shortlist                                  Sd  Wed 08/10/97                             |
_____                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14 Oc't97
15           Approvals obtained, contract award                      1Od  Wed 12/11/97                                      Nv9
j               | ~~~~~251 Nov '97
1 9          Consultants start working: first assignment               Od  Tue 30/12/97
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   3 030 oD e c ' 9
Thu 24/04/97                                                                         Page 1                                                               C:UVAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                      GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                          Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997         1998                     ~~~~~~~~~1999
ID   Task Name                                               Duration        Start    SONDJ            IMIA J JA S NDJFMAMJ JAS ONDJFMAMJ JASON
20   Input -output analysis                                         624d  Thu 12/09/96                                                        15 Sep 98
21       Equipment specification                                      3d  Thu 12/09/96
22       Technical assistance                                       519d  Thu 19/09/96
_                          __                       _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-80                             15 Sep 98
23           Consulting services                                    490d  Thu 191091S6          _                                      --_ 05u9
_____ _____________________________________________                                                    ~~~~~~~ 05 Aug '98
24               Data collection/usage In Input-Output table        148d  Thu 19109/96
25                   Development of TOR                               2d  Thu 19/09/96
26                   Selection of consultants                         3d  Tue 25/02197
._ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _       I27   Feb'97
27                   Contract award                                   Od  Mon 03/03/97
03 Mar '97
28                   Contract performance                            25d  Tue 11/03/97                 14Apr'97
29               Basic data adjustments for Input-Output             82d  Tue 22W07/97
table                                                                                                  12 Nov'97
30                   Development of TOR                               2d  Tue 22/07/97                         23 Jul 97
31                   Selection of consultants                         3d  Thu 25/09/97
29 Sep'97
32                   Contract award                                   Od  Wed 01/10/97                           *  01 Oct'97
33                   Contract performance                            25d  Thu 09/10/97                                 12 Nov '97
34              Input-output data analysis                          128d  Mon 09/02/98                                    _ 05 Aug 98
05 Aug '98
35                   Development of TOR                               2d  Mon 09/02/98
I0 Feb '98
36                   Selection of consultants                         3d  Wed 15/04/98
37                   Contract award                                   3d  Mon 22/06/98                                               | ApJu98
I                                            1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 Jun '98
38                   Contract performance                            25d  Thu 02/07/98                                                    05 Aug 98
Thu 24/04/97                                                                        Page 2                                                              CAIVAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                       GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                           Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997                      1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration        Start    S OTN|D J|F|M|A|MJ JA|S|O|N|DJ|F|M|A|M| JIA|S|O|N|DO|J|F|M|A|M|J |J|A|S|O|N|D
39               Development of 1998/1999 Input-Output                87d   Fri 09101/98
table                                                                                                    'y- '11 May '98
40                   Development of TOR                                3d   Fri 09/01/98                                   113 Jan 98
41                   Selection of consultants                          3d  Wed 18/03/98                                           20 Mr 98
42                   Contract award                                    3d  Thu 26/03/98                                            30 Mar'98
43                   Contract performance                             25d  Tue 07/04/98                                    f1 May'98
44           Local consultancy in Input-Output analysis              218d  Mon 16/06/97         j                                    15 Apr'98
45               Development of TOR                                    5d  Mon 16/06/97                       20 Jun'97
lOd  Mon 04/08/97  ~          20 un 9
48               Selection of consultants                             10d  Mon 04/08/9715 Aug97
47               Contract award                                        5d  Mon 08/09/97                             12 Sep 97
48               Contract performance                                150d  Thu 18/09/97
15 Apr'98
49           Training and study tours                                182d  Mon 05/01/98         |
!                    ISSep '98
50               Data collection course/study tour in USA             2w   Tue 13/01/98                                       2
51               Course (1 week) on data collection in Moscow         1w   Tue 10/02/98         !                                 Feb 98
52               Information technology course/study tour             2w   Tue 10/03/98                                    |
Norway                                _23 Mar'98
53               Information Technology courses in Moscow             75d  Mon 01/06/98                                    f|||||||
62               Classificaton study tour Canada                      2w  Mon 05/01/98                                       16 Jan 98
63               Customs statistics training in France                 1w  Mon 09/03/98                                      113 Mar'98
64               Seminar for statisticians at the Head and             1w  Wed 09/09/98
Regional offices.                                                                                                           15 ISep '98
65           Pilot survey of small business                           45d   Fri 18/01198        |                                  19Mar98
68               Design and printing of questionnaires                10d   Fn 16/01/98                                       29 Jan'98
Thu 24104/97                                                                         Page 3                                                               C:WAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                       GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                           Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997                      1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration        Start     S|O|N|D|J IFIMIAIMIJ JASONDJFMAMJ  JASONDJFMAMJ JIAISOND
67               Conducting survey                                     5d   Fri 13/02/98        :                               19 Feb'98
68               Processing results                                   10d   Fri06/0319B                                        U -  Mar'93
69   Household Survey                                                673d  Wed 11109196                                                                         09 Apr'99
70       Equipment specIiMcatVon                                       3d  Wed 11/09/96
____________         j  13  Sep'96
71       Technical Assistance                                          Od   Fri 01/11/96
O 01 Nov96
72       Consulting services                                        404d  Tue 23/09/97                                      ______09_Apr_'99
09 Apr'99
73           Summary system of statistical Indicators                 64d  Tue 23I09/97
19 Dec'97
74               Develop Terms of Reference                            3d  Tue 23/09/97
25 Sep'97
75               Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 14/11/97                                1  N
_                                                            | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18 Nov'97
76               Contract award                                        3d  Mon 24/11/97
|26i Nov '97
77               Contract performance - foreign consultant            2w   Thu 04/12/97                                  2 Nov'97
_ _ _    _       _      _      _       _     I   I?~~~~~~~~~,1 Dec'97
78               Contract performance - local consultants             4w  Mon 24/11/97                                        Dec'97
79           Improvement In Survey methodology                       94d  Tue 02/12I97                                 __10Ap_'8 
wrow ~10 Apr'98
80               Develop Temns of Reference                            3d  Tue 02/12/97                                       e '
|04 Dec '97
81               Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 06/02/98
_10 Feb'98
82               Contract award                                        3d  Mon 16102/98                                         1 F
_   .                                                     |  | ~~~~~~~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~18 Feb '98!
83               Contract performance - foreign consultant            2w   Thu 26/02/98
11 Mar'98
84               Contract performance - local consultants             8w  Mon 16/02/98
___    ____                                                      10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Apr'98
85           Survey Program and Indicators                           139d  Tue 23/11297
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03 Jul'98
86               Develop Terrns of Reference                           3d  Tue 23/12V97
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  |i__ _  1126    D ec   '97  ! _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Thu 24/04/97                                                                         Page 4                                                                C:\IVAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                        GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                             Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997                       1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration         Start     SOND FMAMJJASOND|J|F|M|A|MJJASONDJFMAMJJASOND
87               Selection of consultants                               3d   Fri 27/02/98                                         03 Mar '98
88               Contract award                                         3d  Mon 09)03198                                           11 Mar'98
89               Contract performance - foreign consultant             13w   Thu 19/03/98                                                 17 Jun'98
90               Contract performance - local consultants             17w  Mon 09/03/98                                                    03 Jul '98
91           Sample algorthm of selection of households                82d  Tue 23/12/97
IS lApr'98
92               Develop Terms of Reference                             3d  Tue 23112/97                                     25 Dec'97
93               Selection of consuttants                               3d   Fri 27/02/98
103 Mar '98
94               Contract award                                         3d  Mon 09/03/98                                              Mar'98
95_Contract performance - foreign consultant                           4w   Thu 19)03/98                       ~                        Apr'98
95               Contract performance - foreign consultant             4w   Thu 19/03/98                                     1     * 15 Apr '98
96               Contract perfoffmance - local consuftants             4w   Thu 19/03/98         ll                                |1   p 9
97           Methodology of reconcllliation of old and new             82d  Tue 23/12197
sample                                                        ______""""'  15 Apr'93
98               Develop Terms of Reference                             3d  Tue 23/12/97                                     '25 Dec '97
99               Selection of consultants                               3d   Fri 27/02/98                                         03 Mar'98
100               Contract award                                        3d  Mon 09/03/98                                            11 Mar'98
101               Contract performance - foreign consultant             2w   Thu 19/03/98                                            0
102               Contract performance - local consultants              4w   Thu 19/03/98                                            15Apr '98
103           Procedures for household substitution                    90d  Tue 23/12197                                         _       27 Apr'98
104               Develop Termns of Reference                           3d  Tue 23/12/97                                      250Dc '97
106               Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 27/02)98                                          03 Mar '98
106               Contract award                                        3d  Mon 09/03/98 1                                             ar9
Thu 24/04/97  Page 5                                     C:~IVAN\GOP11 Mar'S8
Thu 24/04/97                                                                           Page 5                                                                C;\IVANGOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                       GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                           Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
I          1997                       i 198                      1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration        Start    S|OTN|D|J|F|M|A|MIJ JASONDJ MF AMJ |JA S|O|N|D|J|F|M|A|M   J JAIS|OINID
107              Contract performance - foreign consultant             1w   Thu 02/04/98                                            08 Apr'98
108              Contract performance - local consultants              4w   Tue 31/03'98
27 Apr '98
109          Sample rotation plan                                     94d  Tue 25108198                                                                  01 Jan'99
110              Develop Terms of Reference                            3d   Tue 25/08/98                                                      2
_                                       S                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27 Aug '98
111              Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 30/10/98
03 Nov '98
112              Contract award                                        3d  Mon 09111/98                                                                 o
_                                                                                                              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 Nov '98
113              Contract performance - foreign consultant             1w   Thu 19/11/98                                                             25 Nov'98
114              Contract performance - local consultants              8w  Mon 09)11/98
01 Jan '99
115          Development of Information systems and                  314d  Tue 20/01/98                                                                         0
database management - Stage I.                                                                                                                    02 Apr'99
116              Develop Terms of Reference                            3d  Tue 20101198                                       22 Jan '98
117              Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 27/03/98                                           31 Mar'98
118              Contract award                                        3d  Mon 06/04/98
_ l j | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~08 Apr '98
119              Contract performance -foreign consultant             13w   Thu 16/04/98                                           0 A_r      u'8
IS jul'98I
120              Contract performance - local consultants             52w  Mon 06/04/98                                                                       02 Apr'99
121          Development of information systems and                  314d  Tue 27101/98                                     _                       _
database management - Stage 11. database                                           !                                                              09 Apr'99
122              Develop Terms of Reference                            3d  Tue 27/01/98                                        29 Jan'98
123              Selection of consultants                              3d   Fri 03/04/98
__    ________________                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07 Apr'98
124              Contract award                                        3d  Mon 13/04/98                                                A
i                l       | 15~~~~~~ISApr '98
125              Contract performance - foreign consultant                  Thu 23/04/98         |                                         22 Jul'98
126              Contract performance - local consultants             52w  Mon 13104/98                                            ____09_Apr_'99
09 Apr '99
Thu 24/04/97                                                                          Page 6                                                               C:\IVAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                        GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                             Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1          1997                       1998                        1999
ID   Task Name                                                 Duration        Start     SOND|J|FMA|M|J|J|A|S|O|N|D  J|F|M|A|M|J |J|A|S|O|N|D  J|F|M|A|M|J JA IS|O|N|D
127       Training and study tours                                     10d   Fri 02/01/98                                        15 Jan'98
128           Courses to be attended, dates in due course.             10d   Fri 02101/98                                        15 Jan '98
129               Economic and Soriai Indicators                        2w    Fri 02/01/98                                      15 Jan '98
,                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndividuial
130               Economic indicators                                   2w    Fri 02/01/98                                                        Courses to be
* iSJan '98        coretob
pianned as
131               Control and evaluation of nonsampling error           2w    Fri 02/01/98                                                        available
132               Qualy control and assurance in censuses and          2w    Fri 02/01/98        j                          || 15Jan98
surveys
133               Sampling and estimation case studies                  2w    Fri 02/01/98                                      15 Jan '98
134               Statistical review of data                            2w    Fri 02/01/98                                      15 Jan '98
135               Demonstration househoid survey                        2w    Fri 02/01/98                                      15 Jan'98
136               Populations data analysis, dissemination and          2w    Fri 02/01/98
utilizatin                                                                      ,                             5 Ja  9
137              Introduttion to questionnaire design                   2w    Fri02/01/98                                    |    Jan'98
137_IntroductIon  Fri                                   15 Jan '98
138   Quarterly survey of labour market                               31ld  Tue 30112/97                                                                    _  09 Mar'99
139       Technical asstistance                                       31ld  Tue 30/1V2/97         |
140           Consulting services                                     311d  Tu 30112V97           |                                               -             09 Mar'99
09 Mar'99
141               First tranche                                        lOw   Tue 30/12/97
09 Mar'98
142               Second tranche                                       1Ow  Wed 30/12/98                                                                       09 Mar'99
143   New Economic Activities                                           Od   Fri 03/10/97
144       Technical Assistance (start).                                 Od   Fri 03/10/97
Thu __________________________________________________ 24/04/97__ Page                  __ 7                        03  ct97
Thu 24/04/97                                                                           Page 7                                                                C:UVANNGOSKOM-E.MPP



BEA                                                                       GOSKOMSTAT COMPONENT                                                                           Revision 1
INITIAL SCHEDULE
1997                      1998                       1999
ID   Task Name                                                Duration        Start     S JOIN |D JIF IM|AIMI J I J JAS  DJF MIAIMIJ JAIS |OINID JIF JMMJ JJASOND
145   EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                          305d  Mon 16109/96                                    1 4 Nov'97
146      Consolidation of requirements                                 2d  Mon 16/09/96 |17 Sep 96
147      Producing bidding documents                                  15d  Wed 25/06/97
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  i__ _ _ _ _ _   *   15 Ju l 97
148      Approval of bidding documents and shortlist of selected      10d  Wed 16/07/97
suppliers by the World Bank                                                                            29 Jul97
149      Letter of Invitation sent out                                 Od  Tue 12/08/97
*12 Aug '97j
150      Proposals received                                            Od  Tue O99/97                                0 Sep 97
151      Bid evaluation and selection of the winner                    5d  Wed 10/09/97                                S
l            | ~~~~16 Sep'"97 
152       Bank's approval                                             10d  Wed 17/09/97
!  30 Sep'97
153       Contract award                                               Od   Fri 03/10/97
*  03 Oct'97
154       Equipment delivery and instalation                          10d  Mon 03/11/97                                  14 Nov 97
166      Equipment operational                                         Od   Fri 14/11t97
Thu 24/04/97                                                                         Page 8                                                               C:UiVAN\GOSKOM-E.MPP






APPENDIX 3
PROJECT COST TABLES
Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998    W 1999     2000     2001      2002    Total
1. Policy Studies               931.5  1,729.4  2,675.2  2,751.1  2,871.9 10,959.1
2. Establishing the Bureau
of Economic Analysis        2,907.9  3,116.1  3,337.4  3,546.2  4,618.1 17,525.8
3. Improving
National Accounts           1,738.4  2,856.9  2,118.9       73.4         -  6,787.7
4. PPF                        1.529.0         -         -        -         -  1.529.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              7,106.9  7,702.5  8,131.5  6,370.7  7,490.0 36,801.6
Mon May 05 14:47:35 1997
1-1 Project Components by Year



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
1998     1999      2000      2001      2002    Total
1. Policy Studies                910.9  1,647.8  2,469.6  2,469.6  2,469.6  9,967.4
2. Establishing the Bureau
of Economic Analysis         2,854.8  2,987.3  3,088.0  3,186.8  3,938.2 16,055.1
3. Improving
National Accounts            1,683.5  2,726.7  1,959.4        65.9         -  6,435.5
4. PPF                         1.494.1         -         -         -         -    494.1
Total BASELINE COSTS              6,943.3  7,361.8  7,516.9  5,722.2  6,407.8 33,952.0
Physical Contingencies                 -        -         -         -         -         -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                         653.8  1,636.9  2,453.3  2,218.2  2,679.8  9,642.0
Foreign                        98.1    114.4    131.6    148.0    253.8    745.9
Subtotal Inflation              751.9  1,751.3  2,584.8  2,366.2  2,933.7 10,387.9
Devaluation                    -588.3 -1,410.7 -1,970.3 -1,717.7 -1,851.4 -7,538.3
Subtotal Price Contingencies    163.6    340.6    614.5    648.5  1,082.2  2.849.5
Total PROJECT COSTS               7,106.9  7,702.5  8,131.5  6,370.7  7,490.0 36,801.6
Taxes                             665.9    519.1    476.8    259.3    442.6  2,363.7
Foreign Exchange                3,094.1  2,067.2  1,659.7  1,430.1  1,997.8 10,248.7
Mon May 05 14:50:13 1997
1-1 Project Components by Year



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                         Foreign Exchange
1998     1999      2000      2001      2002    Total _ -           Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Government Support            7.9      22.7      16.8       9.9         -     57.3          -        -
B. PPF                       1,494.1         -         -         -         -  1,494.1      50.4    753.0
C. Goods                     2,210.3    195.8          -         -    652.6  3,058.7       75.4  2,305.2
D. Technical Assistance        571.9  2,953.4  3,385.9  1,649.4  1,643.5 10,204.1          33.9  3,463.8
F. Training                    220.0  1,072.4    700.2    550.1    500.0  3.042.6          78a 22,378.5
Total Investment Costs           4,504.2  4,244.2  4,102.9  2,209.3  2,796.1 17,856.8          49.8  8,900.5
II. Recurrent Costs
D. Operational Costs         1,253.3  1,437.8  1,437.8  1,437.8  1,437.8  7,004.7           8.6    602.4
E. BEA Staff                 1,185.7  1.679.8  1,976.2  2,075.0  2.173.8  9,090.5             -         -
Total Recurrent Costs            2.439.1  3,117.6  3,414.0  3.512.9  3,611.7 16.095.2                   602.4
Total BASELINE COSTS              6,943.3  7,361.8  7,516.9  5,722.2  6,407.8 33,952.0          28.0  9,502.9
Physical Contingencies                 -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                         653.8  1,636.9  2,453.3  2,218.2  2,679.8  9,642.0             -         -
Foreign                        98.1    114.4    131.6    148.0    253.8    745.9    100.0    745.9
Subtotal Inflation              751.9  1,751.3  2,584.8  2,366.2  2,933.7 10,387.9           7.2    745.9
Devaluation                    -588.3 -1,410.7 -1,970.3 -1,717.7 -1,851.4 -7,538.3             -         -
Subtotal Price Contingencies    163.6    3 6    614.5               648.5  1082.2  2.849.5    2.2    745.
Total PROJECT COSTS               7,106.9  7,702.5  8,131.5  6,370.7  7,490.0 36,801.6          27.8 10,248.7
Taxes                              665.9    519.1    476.8    259.3    442.6  2,363.7             -         -
Foreign Exchange                3,094.1  2,067.2  1,659.7  1,430.1  1,997.8 10,248.7              -        -
Mon May 05 14:51:03 1997
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1998     1999      2000     2001      2002    Total
A. Policy Studies
Investment Costs                   766.2  1,389.9  2,322.8  2,388.3  2,487.3  9,354.6
Recurrent Costs                    165.3    33.5    352.3    362.8    384.6  1.604.5
Subtotal Policy Studies               931.5  1,729.4  2,675.2  2,751.1  2,871.9 10,959.1
B. Establishing the Bureau
of Economic Analysis
Investment Costs                   597.0    207.2         -         -    747.6  1,551.8
Recurrent Costs                  2.311.0  2,908.9 _3.337A  3,546.2  3,870.6 15.974.0
Subtotal Establishing the Bureau
of Economic Analysis              2,907.9  3,116.1  3,337.4  3,546.2  4,618.1 17,525.8
C. Improving
National Accounts
Investment Costs                 1,738.4  2,856.9  2,118.9      73.4         -  6.787.7
Subtotal Improving
National Accounts                 1,738.4  2,856.9  2,118.9       73.4        -  6,787.7
D. PPF
Investment Costs                 1,529.0         -        -         -        -1529.0
Subtotal PPF                        1.529.0         -        -         -        -  1.529.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                  7,106.9  7,702.5  8,131.5  6,370.7  7,490.0 36,801.6
Total Investment Costs             4,630.6  4,454.1  4,441.7  2,461.7  3,234.9 19,223.1
Total Recurrent Costs              2,476.3  3,248.4  3,689.7  3,909.0  4,255.1 17,578.5
Mon May 05 14:49:39 1997
1-1 Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis iBEA) Project
Table 1. Policy Studies
Detailed Coats
(US$  000)
Breakdown of Totals Inc    Cont         Parameters (inM)
Local                          Phy.          Gross
Base Cost                                          Totals Includong Contingencies                       For.      (Excl    Duties               Cont. For.   Tax
1998      1999       2000       2001      2002    Total         19928 _ 1999         2000      2001       2002_   TotI   _Exch.-            Taxes)  & Taxes   Total   Rate  Exch  Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Consulting Services         550 0     825.0  1,650 0  1,650 0  1,650 0  6,325 0    560 6              862.8  1,780 4  1,830 9  1,910 3  6.945 1  3, 178 1  3,135 6    631.4  6,945.1   0.0  45.8    9.1
B. Training                    200 0    500.0 _          500.0  500.0    500. ( -2200 0    205.6         527.2    542.4       557.4      577.0  2,409 5  1 814.3  - 5952                 -  2,409 5    0.0  75 3   0.0
Total Investment Costs             750.0  1,325.0  2,150.0   2150.0   2,150.0  8,525 0             766.2  1,389.9  2,322.8  2,38B.3  2,487.3  9,354.6  4,992.4  3,730.9                  631.4  9,354.6
II. R-current Costs
A. Publishing,
Distribution,
Conferences             __1Q .0          330 0 _330.0  -1-J0  0 -l-   0 o 1l,4ti,,-    lk1i5XJ _339,5             3 52 3    362 8  -       384 6 -1.604 5           1.458  7 _  145 2  1,604    0 0   0.o   9 1
Total Recurrent Costs            -1650_           330.0    330.0   330,0          330.0  1.485.0   165.3        339.5    353  -        362!3    384._  1,604.5          -1.458.7         145.9  1.604.5
Total                               915.0  1,655 0  .,480.0  2,480.0  2,480 0 10,010.0              931.5  1,729.4  2,675 2  2,751.1  2,871 9 10,959 1  4,992.4  5,189 5    777.2 10,959.1
Mon May 05 15:02:32 1997
1-1 Policy Studies



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BRA) Project
Table 2. EsEablishing the Bureau of Economic Analysis
D.taild Costs
(USS  000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl  Cont-   P.rdetea.Jin.AI
Local                        Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                       Torals  Tncluding Cntinencies                     For.      (c.   Dties                 Cont. For.   Tax
_92L2_   1999    __           22        20020            200T1ta 1                         20019219 9S_otal    Exch. Taxes).  Taxes   Total   Rate  Exch  Rate
I. IB0*StUoat Cost.
A. Oftice Technology  E Equipsent    390.0    195.0              -           -       -    s81.0    404.4    207.2             -                   -    611.6    470.5           -    141.1    611.6   0.0  76.9  23.1
B. Replceme nt - Office
Tech. & Equip.                            -          -         -         -    650.0    650.0           -         -         -         -    747.6    747.6    575.1                  172.5    747.6   0.0  76.9  23.1
C. Office Furniture                      43.2          -         -         -         -      43.2      43.1         -          -         -         -     43.3          -      36.1       7.2      43.3   0.0   0.0  16.7
D. Vehicles                            144.4   _440_ __             _                                                                                                           -  .424        1-_492.1   0.0  66.7  33.3
Totl Is..stos.t Cost.                       577.2    191.0          -         -    650.0  1,422.2    597.0    207.2              -         -    747.6  1,551.0  1,145.1         36.1    370 6  1,551.8
II. Eaeues.ot Cest.
A. Operating  expenses /a               192.5    271.0    275.0    276.0    275.0  1,292.5    192.6    2a2.9    293.6    302.3    320.1  1,392.2                      -  1265.6    126.6  1,192.2   0.0   0.0   9.1
B. Rent                                 680.0    680.0    680.o    680.0    680,0  3,400.0    681.2    699.6    726.0    747.6    792.5  3,646.9                      -  3,646.9          -  3,646.9   0.0   0.0   0.0
C. Staff /b                           1.200.0  1,700.0  2,000.0  2,100.0  2,200.0  9,200.0  1.202.1  1,748.9  2,135.3  2,308.8  2,563.9  9,9S9.1                      -  9,9S9.1          -  9,9S9.1   0.0   0.0   0.0
D. Information Resources                228.0 _  168 0    ik6    ---I"    ..lL.Q                        177           4    182 2 4     187.5   ___3.72 975 .B 651.0  1I60.2i 975                        A    0.0  66.9  16.7
Total Recrrs-t Cost.                     2 100 S _.g  A,12. .3 22_            5    43 79 2 ,5    _              2..iQL   ..W.L   1.5.l 2  111tZ1  1L.ii,             653.0 15.031        289L2 I5.974.0
Total                                      2,877.7  3,018.0  3,123.0  3,223.0  3,973.0 16,214.7  2,907.9  3,116.1  3,337.4  3,546.2  4,618.1 17,525.8  1,798.1 15,067.8    659.9 17,525.8
\a e.g.,, office supplies, maintenance, insucance, audit costs, business trips
\b 100t Bank-financed, includes base salary, social charges, pension fund contributions, and income tax
Mon May OS 15:02:33 1997
2-1 Escablishing che Bureau of Economic Analysis



Russian Federation
Bureau oE Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Table 3. Goskomstat
Detailed Costs
(US$   00
Breakdown ofToal           ncl  Cont, Parameter   (in D_1)
Local                        Phy.            Gross
Base Cost                ____                  Totals  Including Contingencies              __   For.    (Excl.  Duties                     Cont. For        Tax
,.1998..   19992.. ..2000,...  _J2.U..   2002                 199L A,.,    1999. ..000,, ,2001    .5202,,  _,ythaTa. Exo                       & flyxez  Total,  Rg   Exc    Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Improving National
Accounts & Input-output Analysis
1. Equipping National
Accounts and BOP
Equipment                                  266.5           -    -         -          -         266 5    276 3            -         -         -              276 3    212 6            -      63.8    276 3    0.0   76 9  23 1
Training                                     20.0      80.0    100 0        50 C)              250 0      20 6       84 5    208 6       55 8a               269 S    216 6       52 8           -   269 5    0 0  80 3   0 0
Foreign Coi1.11I -j                             -      30.0      30 0          -          -     60.0          -     31 9       32 7          -         -      64 6      93 5          -      10 8      64 6    0 0  83 3  16.7
Support.  for foreign consultants                -      9.        5 0          -                1  0          -       5 1       5.3          -10 5                          -     10.5           -     10.0    0.0    0 0   0.0
Foreign conSulting FOF                                 60.0      24 0          -    -           84 0                63.0       26.2                    .      89 9      74 9                 15.0      89 9   0.0   83 3  16 7
Support of FoF                                        .5f 9..5Q    -. 10 0                -  _2,              - ..0...j.   ..,,j3        1.1 0           -        215          ...j,    __              .       0 .0    2 0    0.~0
Subtotal Equipping National
Accounts and BOP                             286.0    180 0    164 0         60 0               690 0    296.9    190.4    170.2           66.8-   732 3    008.0                   84 8      89 5   7132 3
2. Equipping Input-
Output Analysis
Equipment                                  162 S                          -               .    162.5    169.5                      .                         1 08 5    029 6                 38 9    168.5    0 0)  76 9  03 0
Study tours                                      -    275.0          -                         275 0          -    232 3           -                        292.3    292 3            -          -   292.3    0.0 1000.0    0 0
Local training-                                        66 0          -         -                66 0                6 9 7                    -                69 7      46.8      11 3       11.8      69 7    0.0   66.9   16 7
Pilot survey                                     -     38.0                    -          -     36 0          -      37 0                    -         .      37 0          -     30 9        6 2      37.0    0.0    0 0  16.7
Foreign consulting                                   180 0       72.0          -         -    252 0           -    191 3       78 0                         269 8    224 0            -     45 0    269 8    0 0  83 3  16 7
Support for foreign consultants                  -      5.0       3 0          -                 8 0          -         1       3 2          -                    3         -       8 3          -      8.3    0 0    0.0    0 0
Local consulting                                -       6 .0      6 0        60           -     18 0                  6 ...E2   6..4.,    6__   6             19 2                16. 119  ____ . ) 3 2  -_ 19.2    0 0    0 0  16 7
Subtotal Equipping Input-
Output Analysis                              162.5    56.0         81 1  .155              - 817 .1    168.5 .6160               4jA88   _6.6 _            -864 9  _ 621_.5_    66 5 ..A94 - .156,4 
Subtotal Improving National
Accounts & Input-Output Analysis                449.0    748 0    245.0          66 I            1.506  0    465 4    792 0    266 3          73 4             15S97  1 1,251 5    150  3    194 4 1,597 1
B.,,New Surveystof BHs
& rivate Enterprises
1. Household Survey
Equipment                                1,196 0           -                                1,.19E 5 1,240 1                       -         -         -12I  1    353 9                    286 2 1,240 1    0.U  76 9  23.1
Training                                         -    190.0    120 0                      .   250 3           -    058 4    106 6                            267 0    214 8       52 2-   267 0    0.0   80 3    00
Foreign consulting                          24.0    246 0        24 0          -               294 0      24 9    261 4        26.2          -              302 5    260.4            -     52.1    312 5    0 0  83.3   06 7
Support for foreigni consuitanti              a 0       8 0       4 0                           2 0 0      8 0        8 2       4 3          -                20 5          -     20 5           -     20.5    0 0    0        0.0
Local c.nsulti._                                                                  ___           ____2  __                                            __                        ___
Local consulting           -       - .960.1) 145.5                          -      .).              16.  ....29).. 3     _          ~...   1.6890 2  .....   11 75             1   1  -1-a-2 02    0.,0    0 0   167
Subtotal Nousehold Survey                    1,228.1  1,264 0    374 0                          3,566 0 1,273 2 0,415.7  1,042 3                              3,771 0 0,429,1 1,648.5    653.4  3,731 I
C. Quarterly survey of labour market
Local consultants  (inter-sewes)                    -   340 0    345.0                       -      8l  7              349 0    368 3                           718 0           -    718  0         -    708  0  0  0  0  0 0
D. New economic activities
1. Local consulting  (interviewers)                 -   291 0    330 0-   561 0                                   -   237.7    352 3                            591  0               536 3      53 6    550 .0    0 0    0.0    9 0
2. Reimbursable  expenses.                                 36 0      48 G                           84 0          -     37 0       Si 2                          88 3-                7 3 6     1 4 7      88 3    0 0    0 0  18.7
3  Printing and distribution                ___   2_....15        __ 3.26.1- -    .. -  .: ..66 .9  -..,c               26272   .155___- -                   ....12   ___                       I. 0__~     6.1   C) 0    0 0  06 
Subtotal Ne,. economic  activities                       - ....-1 9. 0    4 14,  ____ -C) 70   0 .... ... 2 9 9    4  442 0                                    z-__  781-4                          782.,5. 91  7 4 1.4
Total                                                  1,677.0 2,743 0 1,978 0           66.0           - 6,464.0 1,738 4 2,856.9 2,118 9              73 4           . 6,787 7 2,680 8 3,180.4    926.8  8,787.7
Mon ~May 055 05:009 1997
1-1 Goskomstat



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Table 4. PPF
Detailed Costs
(US$  000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont, Parameters (in %I
Local                     Phy.          Gross
Base Cost                                  Totals Includina Contingencies                 For.    (Excl.  Duties              Cont. For.   Tax
1998     1999    2000      2001      2002     Total   1995       1922     2000     2001      2002    Total   Exch- Taxesl  S Taxes  Total  Rate  Exch  Rate
I. Inve.tment CostS
A. Project Start-up l,500.S                      -_500.  L290                                  -                  -        - 15290   777.7   01.3               -             0.0  50.4    0.0
Total                        1,500.0         -                           - 1,500.0 1,529.0           -        -         -        - 1,529.0   777.7    751.3              1,529.0
Mon May 05 15:08:47 1997
1-1 PPF



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Project Cost Summary
(RRuble Million)                                       (USS '000)
%      % Total                                          % Total
Foreign    Base                                  Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign  __ otal   Exchange    Costs-5   -Loal,i1   Foreign   Total   Exchange _Costsg-
I. Investment Costs
A. Government Support         290.0          -      290.0          -          -     57.3         -     57.3         -         -
B. PPF                      3,750.0   3,810.3   7,560.3           50         4    741.1    753.0  1,494.1          50         4
C. Goods                    3,813.0  11,664.7  15,477.7          75          9    753.5  2,305.2  3,058.7          75         9
D. Technical Assistance  34,107.4  17,527.6  51,635.0            34         30  6,740.3  3,463.8 10,204.1          34        30
F. Training                 3.360.7  12,035.6 _15_2.              78         9    6.   2.378.5  3.042.6            78         9
Total Investment Costs         45,321.1  45,038.3  90,359.3           50         53  8,956.3  8,900.5 17,856.8          50       53
II. Recurrent Costs
D. Operational Costs       32,397.2   3,048.3  35,445.4            9        21  6,402.3    602.4  7,004.7           9        21
E. BEA Staff               46.000.0          -  46.000.0           -        27  9.020.5          -  9               -
Total Recurrent Costs          78.397.2   3.048.3  81,445A4            4         47 15.492.8    602.4 16.095.2           4       47
Total BASELINE COSTS           123,718.2  48,086.6 171,804.8           28        100 24,449.2  9,502.9 33,952.0          28      100
Physical Contingencies               -          -          -          -          -        -         -         -         -        -
Price Contingencies           50.504.7  17.966.2  68.470.9           26        40  2.10_7   745.9_ 2.84 9.5           26         8
Total PROJECT COSTS            174,222.9  66,052.8 240,275.6           27        140 26,552.8 10,248.7 36,801.6          28      108
Mon May 05 15:23:35 1997
2-1 Project Cost Summary



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Government of                                   Local
World Bank           Russia               Total           For.     (Excl.  Duties
Amount             Amount  i           Amount      I       Exch.    T has)  & Taxes
1. Policy Studies             9,578.6      87.4  1,380.6       12.6 10,959.1       29.8  4,992.4  5,189.5   777.2
2. Establishing the Bureau
of Economic Analysis        7,425.6      42.4 10,100.2       57.6 17,525.8       47.6  1,798.1 15,067.8   659.9
3. Improving
National Accounts           4,065.2      59.9  2,722.4       40.1  6,787.7       18.4  2,680.6  3,180.4   926.6
4. PPF                        1.529.0    100.0           -        -  1,529.0       _42    777.7 _5_1.  ___7
Total Disbursement              22,598.4       61.4 14,203.2      38.6 36,801.6    100.0 10,248.7 24,189.1 2,363.7
Mon May 05 14:53:40 1997
1-1 Components by Financiers



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Procurement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Government of                                   Local
World Bank            Russia               Total          For.      (Excl.  Duties
Amount      %       Amount      %      Amount       %      Exch.    Taxes)  & Taxes
1. PPF                     1,529.0    100.0           -         -  1,529.0        4.2    777.7    751.3          -
2. Technical Assistance  8,555.5         77.2  2,533.1       22.8 11,088.6       30.1  3,792.2  6,138.9 1,157.6
3. Goods                   2,463.0       58.5  1,749.6       41.5  4,212.6       11.4  3,094.2    196.2   922.1
6. Recurrent Costs         7,114.0       42.7  9,549.5       57.3 16,663.5      45.3          - 16,391.1   272.4
7. Training                2.936.9       88.8    371.1       11.2  3,307.9        9.0  2,584.7    711.6    11.6
Total                         22,598.4      61.4 14,203.2       38.6 36,801.6    100.0 10,248.7 24,189.1 2,363.7
Mon May 05 14:53:41 1997
2-1 Procurement Accounts by Financiers



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Government of                                   Local
World Bank            Russia               Total          For.      (Excl.  Duties
Amount  il         Amount      A       Amount  i            Exch.    Taxes)  & Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Government Support             -         -      60.8    100.0       60.8       0.2         -      60.8        -
B. PPF                     1,529.0    100.0           -         -  1,529.0        4.2    777.7    751.3          -
C. Goods                   1,902.2       58.8  1,334.5       41.2  3,236.7        8.8  2,441.2      36.1   759.5
D. Technical Assistance  8,555.5         77.2  2,533.1       22.8 11,088.6       30.1  3,792.2  6,138.9 1,157.6
F. Training                2.936.9       88.8    371.1       11.2  3,307.9        9.0  2.584.7          711.6    11.6
Total Investment Costs         14,923.5      77.6  4,299.5       22.4 19,223.1       52.2  9,595.7  7,698.7 1,928.7
II. Recurrent Costs
D. Operational Costs       2,356.0       30.9  5,263.4       69.1  7,619.4       20.7    653.0  6,531.3   435.1
E. BEA Staff               5.318.8       53.4  4.640.3       46.6  9,959.1      27.1          -  9,959.1
Total Recurrent Costs           7.674.8      43. 7  993.7        56.3 17,578.5       47.8    653.0 16,490.4   435.1
Total Disbursement              22,598.4      61.4 14,203.2       38.6 36,801.6    100.0 10,248.7 24,189.1 2,363.7
Mon May 05 14:53:58 1997
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Financiers



Russian Federation
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Government of                                  Local
World Bank           Russia               Total          For.     (Excl.  Duties
Amount             - Amount            AmQunt      W      Exch.    Tae)  & Taxes
Consultants          11,492.4      79.8  2,904.2       20.2 14,396.5       39.1  6,376.9  6,850.5 1,169.2
Goods                 1,902.2       58.8  1,334.5      41.2  3,236.7        8.8  2,441.2      36.1   759.5
BEA Recurrent Costs  7,674.8       43.7  9,903.7       56.3 17,578.5       47.8    653.0 16,490.4   435.1
PPF                   1,529.0    100.0          -         -  1,529.0        4.2    777.7    751.3         -
Government                   -         -     60.8    100.0       60.8       0.2         -     6           -
Total                    22,598.4      61.4 14,203.2      38.6 36,801.6    100.0 10,248.7 24,189.1 2,363.7
Mon May 05 14:54:25 1997
1-1 Disbursement Accounts by Financiers






APPENDIX 4
FIRST-YEAR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
By January 1. 1998
(1)   Staffing and Organization
*     Work begins in fully refurbished offices
*     Policy Analysis Department staffed with 10 professional employees and 5 long-
term consultants
*     External Outreach and Administrative departments fully staffed
*     First group of individuals and firms receive Bank no-objection for inclusion in
Recruitment Roster by Loan effectiveness
(2)   Work Program
*     First draft completed for one policy study
-     Project proposals completed for five more policy studies, including TORs for
study and staffing and consultant arrangements (requires submission to Bank of
TORs for consultants; short-lists are also required depending on value of
consultant contract)
*     Initial concept completed for two more studies
(3)   External Outreach/Evaluation
*     Academic Council holds first meeting with international members
*     Bank receives first quarterly progress report
(4)   Goskomstat
*     Contract awarded for consulting services in National Accounts
*     Contract awarded for consulting services in Input-Output Analysis
*     Contract awarded for consulting in developing flow-of-funds model



*     Delivery of Equipment completed
By April 1.1998
(1)   Staffing and Organization
*     Offices fully equipped and furnished
*     BEA fully staffed with initial complement of 27 employees
*     First training seminar held with EDI assistance for BEA staff, consultants and
Ministry officials on National Accounts framework for economic analysis
*     Director General receives management training
(2)   Work Program
*     First draft of 2 additional policy studies completed
Concept document prepared for Annual Report and for quarterly economic
report
(3)   External OutreachlEvaluation
Data bank of potential donor organizations prepared and initial contacts made
Data bank prepared for international scholars, academic institutions, policy
think tanks and research institutes
* Bank receives second quarterly progress report
(4)   Goskomstat
*     Contract awarded for consulting services for Household Surveys
*     Contract awarded for consulting services for development of the 1999 input-
output table
By June 1. 1998
(1)   Staff Development
Second training seminar held with EDI assistance for BEA staff, consultants,
and ministry officials on methodology and practical applications of economic
policy analysis



(2)   Work Program
Three studies reviewed by Board and Academic Council and approved for
publication
First draft completed of two additional policy studies
First quarterly economic report published
(3)   External Outreach/Evaluation
*     Plan completed for first Annual Conference
*     Bank receives third quarterly progress report
(4)   Goskomstat
*     Contract awarded for consulting services for household surveys
*     Funds disbursed for conducting the first labor force survey
By September 1. 1998
(1)   Work Program
*     First Annual Report published
Second quarterly economic report published
*     Macroeconomic study completed and submitted to Board and Academic Council
for review
*     Two additional policy studies (for which first draft completed in April)
submitted to Board and Academic Council for review
(2)   External Outreach/Evaluation
*     First meeting held of Board of Trustess
*     First Annual Conference held to discuss Annual report



(3)   Goskomstat
Two tours to study international experience in developing input-output tables
completed.
Contract awarded for consulting services on national accounts
Work Program: Publications by September 1. 1998
*     Annual Report
*     Two quarterly reports
*     Three medium-term policy studies



Appendix 5
A. Procurement Plan
Summary of Major Procurement Activities
(US$ thousands, including contigencies and taxes)
# of      Procurement
Category                    Contracts      Method        Loan Funds   GOR/Other           Total
Establishing the Bureau of Economic Analysis
Office Technology                                1           ICB/IS               470.5          888.7         1,359.2
Office Furniture                                 1             NS                  36.1            7.2            43.3
Vehicles                                         1           IS/NS                 99.5            49.8          149.3
Recurrent Costs                               multiple        NBF                6,819.5        9,154.5       15,974.0
Subtotal                                                                         7,425.6       10,100.2       17,525.8
II. Policy Studies
TA (Consulting Svs., International & Local)   multiple         SL                6,313.7         631.4         6,945.1
Publishing, Distribution, Conferences                       NCB/DC                855.3          749.2         1,604.5
Training                                                       SL                2,409.5                       2,409.5
Subtotal                                                                         9,578.5        1,380.6       10,959.1
III. National Accounts
Improving Nat'l Accounts/1-O Analysis
Equipment                                     1            ICB                 342.2          102.7           444.9
Training                                      1             SL                 219.8           119.4          339.2
Study Tours                                   3            DC                  160.7          131.5           292.2
TA                                                          SL                 393.6          127.3           520.9
New Survey of Households
Equipment                                     1            ICB                 953.9          286.2         1,240.1
Training                                      1             SL                 146.8          120.1           266.9
TA                                         multiple         SL                 733.1         1,490.8        2,223.9
Quarterly Survey of Labor Market
TA                                         multiple         SL                 452.4           265.7          718.1
New Economic Activities
TA                                         multiple         SL                 609.9           68.3           678.2
Printing/Distribution                      multiple        DC                   52.6           10.5            63.1
Subtotal                                                                         4,065.0        2,722.5        6,787.5
PPF                                                     ICB/NCB/LS/DC             1500                          1500
TOTAL                                                                           22,569.11      14,203.31      36,772.4
ICB=international competitive bidding                   NCB=national competitive bidding
NBF=other                                               DC=direct contracting          SL=short list
IS=intemational shopping                                LS=local shopping
M:\MARSHA\BEAP\GREY\APPENDIX\APPEND5.XLS]Sheet1



Appendix 5
B. Procurement Schedule (first year of the project)
Category                     Estimated Cost  Procurement                      Major Activities
(USD)         Method       Issue of       Bids   | Contract       Delivery
Documents  Submission   Signature      Complete
I. Establishing the Bureau of Economic Analysis
Office Technology & Equipment                           360,000    ICB/IS          9/97        11/97        12/97         02/98
Office Furniture                                         43,200       LS           10/97       11/97        11/97         12/97
Vehicles                                                115,000      IS/LS         9/97         10/97       10/97         11/97
Works                                                    12,000       LS           12/97       01/98        01/98         02/98
It. Policy Studies                                                                                                   _______:__
Consulting Services                                     550,000       SL                         Commencing 09197
Training                                                200,000       SL                         Commencing 11/97
Publishing, Distribution, Conferences                   165,000    NCBIDC          11/97       01/98        02/98         05/98
111. National Accounts
A. Improving National Accounts & Input-Output Analysis
Equipment                                             396,000     ICB           5/97         8/97         9/97         11/97
Training                                               20,000       SL           10/97       11/97        12/97         04/98
Study Tours                                                        DC
Technical Assistance                                                SL
B. New Survey of Households
Equipment                                           1,104,000      ICB          5/97         8/97         9/97         11/97
Training                                                           SL
Study Tours                                                        DC
Technical Assistance                                   32,000      SL           10197        11/97       12/97         07/98
C. Quarterly Survey of Labor Market
Technical Assistance                                  40,000       SL           11/97       01/98        02/98         08/98
D. New Economic Activities
Technical Assistance                                               SL
Printing/Distribution                                              DC



APPENDIK 6
APPROVED CHARTER OF THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Approved
at the Constituent Assembiy
Protocol No. I
dated July 2, 1996
Revised Dec. 2, 1996
CHARTER
OF THE BUREAU FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOUNDATION
Moscow



-2
1. Generai Provisions
1.1. The Bureau for Economuc Analvsis Founanon ireferrec to heremafier as the Founoaaon shall
be a noncommerelai organmizalion operaung in accordance with the legslaton of the Russian Federamuon and
this Charter.
Earning a profit shall not be the mamn obiecuve of the Foundation. Profits earned bv the Foundation
sWall not be dismnbuted among the Foundation's founders  members). and shall be earmarked for fulfillme
of its goals and obiectves as defined in the Charter.
1.2. The Foundation shall be a iezai enurt from the moment it is registered by tie state. it shall have
its own seal and samp. an mdevendent balance sheet, and setlement and other accounts in Russian and
foremin currency with Russian and foreim banxs. T'he Founannon shail have tne nit to accuire prope-
and nonproperw nahs and obligatons on IEs on ochaDif. ana to acI as a plainuff ana responaent in a court
of law. and also in arbitration courts.
1.3. The Foundation shall be ihable as to all of its propermy for its obligauons. The founders
(members) shall not be liable for the Founoation s obligations. and the Founcaaon shall not be liable for the
obliatons of its founders (members ).
1.4. The Foundation shall organize its operations in accordance with the legisiation of the Russian
Federton. The Foundaion shall be zovemed bv the decisions of the Government of the Russian
Federaton as thev peram to the objectives and functions of the Foundation. and in the event that
internauonal agreenents of the Russian Federation are concluded that relate to the Foundaaon s acuviues.
it shall be governed bv these azreements. and bv this Charter.
1.5. The fuDl namne of the Founanon shall be the Bureau for Econormc Anaivsis Foundation. which
shall be abbreviated as BEA
1.6. The Founoaton snail be located at: 12 Sakharov Blvd.. Moscow. 107078. Russian Federaton.
1.7. The Foundation shall be created for an mdefinite penod of tine.
11. Objectives and Functions of the Foundation
2.1. The objecuves of the Foundaton shall be:
*    to prepare recommendations for the Government of the Russian Federauon and federal
executiuve authonues re2ardinn kev elements of economuc policy:
*    to provide consulting services to the Government of the Russian Federaton and federal
execuve authonues m the development of economic policv:
*    to analvze the unpac of economic policv measures on the efficiency of the Russian economy;
*    to assist im ar g iternational consuling and technical assistance 'm the sphere of
_tmCroccoo_uc and strueni policv,



-3-
to recruit hiuhlv auaiified Russian soeciaiists to perform expert anaiyucai work for the
Government of the Russian Federauon and federal executive authonues:
*    to organize effectve cooperation benveen the Government of the Russian Federation and
research institutes in the area of economnc policv analvsis:
to keep the public informned of kev eiements of economic policv and their irnpact on socal and
economic processes.
2.2. In order to carrv out the obiectives and funcuons referred to herein, the Foundation shall:
*    prepare analyvtcai matenais on kev current problems in economic policy for the Government
of the Russian Federauon and federal executive authonrtes:
*    perform expert emaiuations of draft normauve-legal acts m the area of economic policv.
decelop recomnmenoauons for inprovmg the nornative-legal framevork for economuc policv:
*    devlop alternative medium- and long-term economic policv options. analyze the compartve
social and economic effectiveness of various economic policy opuons:
*    prepare quar,terl economic poiicv survevs for the Government of the Russian Federauon and
federal execuuve authonties:
*    publish annuai survcvs of economnc policy of the Russian Federaton ana recomnmendations
for implementation of economic policv;
*    organze research on ke issues in the Russian Federaton's economic poilcv:
perform publishine and other public-uiformatton acttvites:
orgamze conferences, seminars. svmposta. and meetngs on economic poiicv issues:
* mauinraintm ties with foreign oraanzuanons invoived in the development of naiional econonuc
pohcyv;
*    perform other actviuies which are not prohibited bv the legislation of the Russian Federation
and which are consistent tith the Foundation's objectives and funcuons as outlined in this
Charter.
2.3. The Foundation shall protect the confidentialitn of infornation provided to it bv the
Government of the Russian Federation. the Central Bank of the Russian Federation. and other government
agmcies.



-4
III. Founders (Membersi of the Foundation
31 The founders of the Foundauon shall be:
*    the Academn of the Natonal Economv under the Government of the Russian Federaton:
*    the Higher Schooi of Economics of the MinistEr of Economv of the Russian federation and
the State ComTuttae on Higher Education of the Russian Federation.
3.2. To support the acuvities of the Foundation. each founder shall make an earmarked conmbution
un the arnount of 10 (ten) million rubles.
3.3. The Assemblv of the Founoanton s Founas (Memoers) mav mafke the decision to admit new
menbers to the Foundaftion. The Founrion's founders and members shall entov equai nghts and shall
have equal responsibilities.
Federal executive bodies mav act as membes of the Foundation.
3.4. The Foundasion's founders and members shall have an equal right to parucipate in the activities
of the Foundation's bodics. in accordance with the procedure established bv this Charter. to obtamn
maernals prepared bv the Foundation (on the condition that theV remain contidential). and also to obtain
informamon pertainig to the expenaiture of the Foundation's resources.
The Foundation's founders (members) shall be required:
*    to facilitate fulfillment of the Foundation's objectives and functuons:
*    to comply with the provisions of this Chatter.
3.5. Each of the Founanaons founders members) shall have the nrht to ternmnate its parucipation
in the Founoanon s acuviucs and to wtnhdraw from all of the Founaauon s bodies. Terminaton bv a
founaer (member) of its paracipaton m the Foundation's activities and withdrawai from all of the
Founaation's bodies shall take effect on the date indicated bv the founder (member) in question in the
wnriten noufication it must provide to ail the other founders (members) at least one month in advance.
IV. The Foundation's Bodies
The Assembly of Founders (Members)
4.1. The Assemblv of the Foundation's Founders (Members) (referred to hereiter as the
Assembliv) shall be the Foundat2on;s highest bodv.
Reprentatives of the Foundation's founds (members) shall serve as partcipants in the Assembly.
Assemblies shall be held as needed but at least once a vear. Assenblies shall be conrveed at the
initiative of the Foundation's Board of Trustees, or at the initaive of at least half of the Foundation's
founders (members).
An Assmbly shall be auor=zed to act if more than half of its partimpas are preset



-5-
4.2. T'he Assembly's scope of authonrt shail inciude:
*    semng pnonties for the Foundanon:s activiues:
*    makng amendsents and additions to the Foundation's Charer.
*    rmorpnauon of the Foundation.
New mernbers shall be admntEed to the Foundation on the basis of a decision bv the Assembly.
The Assembiv shall determune the number of members serving on the Foundation's Board of
Truste ana Board of Directors. and it shall elect the memnbers and chairmen of the Foundation's Board of
Trustees ana Board of Directors.
These maners shall fall under the exciusive authonrt of the Assembly and thev mav not be delegated
to other bocies of the Foundation.
4.3. Decisions regarding amendmnents and additions to the Foundation's Chaner. decisions regarding
rgawnzauon of the Foundation. as well as decisions regarding the adrnission of new menbers shall be
adopted bv a two-thirds vote of all the founders (rnembers . All other maters shall be decided bv a simple
maonrv vote of the parcipants present at an Assemblv.



-6-
Thc Foundation's Board of Trustecs
4 4 The Founation s Board of Trustees shall be tne bod' of the FounrdatiOn hat is rcsponslbie for
supermisinz the Foundaton s acuvities. the adopuon of decisions bv other bodies of the Foundation and
compliance with their execuuon. the use of the Foundation's funds. and the Foundation's compliance wth
legislation in accordance with sc=2on 1.4 of this Charter.
4.5. Members of the Foundation s Board of Trustees shall be elected bv the Assembly to three-yar
terms. The maajonrv of menbers of the Board of Trustees must be representatives of federal executr
bodies. Each member of te Board mav hold office for no more than tnvo conseCutve erms.
4 6. The members of the Board of Trustes shall sev as volunteers. vith no remuneration. Those
members who live outside of Moscow shall be reimbursea for travei and housig expenses incurred as a
resuit of their parucipation in meeUtngs of the Board of Trustees.
4.7. The Boau  of Trusts:
shall draft rccommendations on strategic issues related to the Foundation s acuivities;
shall monitor the use of the Foundation's funds in accordance wvith its goals. objectives, and
operating plans:
*     shall review and approve the Foundation's annual report:
*     shall monitor fulillment of the Assemblv's decisions:
*     shall approve the Foundation's Auditor,
*     shall approve the fnancial report on the Foundations actvities for the gnven financial vear.
*     shall call for the conveninz of the Assembly.
4 8. Meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held at least once a xear. in accordance with a
schedule approved by the Board of Trustees. Speciai meneegs shall be heid at the request of at least: one-
third of the members of the Board.
The ruies and regulauons governig the work of the Board of Trnuste. including the procedure for
adopting decisions. shall be determuned bv the Assemblv.
4.9. At the first request the Foundation's administrative bodies shall be required to providce the
Board of Trustees With all the information necessary for it to perform its functions.



7-
The Foundanon Is Board of Direcaors
4. 10. Dunnz the intervai between meetings of the Assembh . the Foundation shall be manazed bv
the Board of Directors. headed by a Chairman.
The members of the Board of Directors shall be elected bv the Assemblv to thre-vear terms. rhe
ma;ontv of members of the Boara of Directors must be representatives of federai execve bodies. Each
memnber of the Board mav hold office for no more than two consecuuve terns.
Memnbers of the Board of Directors mav be recalled bv a decision of the Assembl,v which has been
approved bv at least two-thirds of the Foundation's founders (members). Members of the Board of
Directors shall have the nght to resip if thev so desire.
4.11. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held as needed. but at least once per quarter. The
rules and rezuiauons governe ne activities of the Board of Directors shall be detemizied bv the Board
dinependentslv
A meig of the Board of Directors shall be authorized to act if at least half of its members are
present.
Meetis of the Board of Directors shall be convened and conducted bv the Chairman of the Board.
and in hus absence. bv the Depurv Chairman. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Depurv
Chaiuman shall be elected from among the menbers of the Board.
The General Director shall partcipate m meetins of the Board of Directors. X ith a voice but no
vote.
4.12. The Foundation's Board of Directors:
* shall elect the General Director of the Foundation:
* shall ciect the Director-Coordinator of the Foundanion's programs icandidacy to be presented bv
the President of the Foundation);
* shall elect the Chaimman and members of the Foundation's Acaderruc Council:
* shall approve the Foundanon's annual work program:
* shall approve the Foundation's annual budget, as weUl as the sources for its financing;
* shall approve the staffing table:
* shall revew the Founcanon's annual report and submit it to the Board of Trustees for approval:
* shall review the Foundation's financial report and submit it to the Boart of Trustees for
* shall mo1ntor the quality of work perfonned by the Foundation;



-8-
* shall select the Founoauon s Auditor and submut his name to the Board of Trustees for approvai:
* shall approve the orzatzaxionai staffing cnart of the Foundation:
* shall approve the Foundations mnternai regulations and procedures. including the hirins and
pavmi sysV5 pro3ect pianning and managemec. the procurement of goocs and services, and
other necesarv components:
* shall approve the conclusion of trnsactons mvolving the dispostuon of monetar% funds and
other property belonging to the Foundaton in amounts m excess of USS250.000 or the
equivalent m another currenc . as well as transactions invoiving the amracuon of borro wed fuids
bv the Foundatuon in amounts referred to above:
* shall decide other mauers relad to toe Fouions acaviucs. with the excevtuon of those that
fall under the exclusive authontv of the Assenblv.
4.13. The Board of Directors shall report to the Assembly and the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Directors shall submnt an annual report on the Foundaton's acvitues to the Board of Trustees.
The President of the Foundaion
4.14   The general guidance for the Foundation's activities as %veil as other functions wVithin the
scope of authontv indicated in this Charter shall be conduced bv the President of the Foundation. The
Presidenr of the Foundaton shad serve as a liaison between the Foundation's management and the
Chairman of the Board of Trustees The Presldent of the Foundation shall be eiected by the Assemblv
(the candidacn to be presented by the Chairman of the Board of Trusreesj for the penod of three vears.
TIhe President shall perforn his duues as a public servanL on a free-of-charee basis. The President of the
Founaauon rzuint be relieved of his duues bv the Assemblvys decision as provided by the legisiaton of the
Russian Federation and this Chaner.
The Genera! Director of the Foundation
4.15. The General Director shall be the Foundation offlcial wvho is responsible for the dav-to-day
manauement of the Foundations activities.
The Generai Director shall carrm out his duties on the basis of an emplonment conuact concluded
with him bv the Foundauon in the person of the Chairnan of the Board of Dirctors. The contract shaUl be
for a term of three vears.
The Generai Director shall be elected and renoved from ofice bv the Foundation's Board of
Directors according to the provisions of the Contrct
4.16. The Foundation's General Director shall reporEto the Board of Directors of the Foundation.
The General Dior sball develop the Foudaion s annual wvork program and budge, shall conduct
planning of Foundation's resources.
The General Director shall submit an anna report On the Foundatios acavites as well as ficul
repon tO the Foundation's Board of Directors.



-9-
4 17. The Gencral Director shall have the nght to act without proxv within the scope of hisiher
authoritv on behalf of the Founaaorn. and to represen the Founaantoni n relations withr governrent
agencies. local authonues, instituutons. other legal and physical subjects in the Russian Federauon and
abroad.
4.18. Thc Gencral Director of the Foundaton:
*     shall hire and disnuss employees of the Foundation m accordancc with its internal
reguiations. shall publish orders. and shall issue nstrucuons. compiiance with which shall be
mandatorv for empiovees:
*     shall pmvide for disposition of the Foundation's moncrv funds and propertv in accordance
wih its operatonai progran:
*    shall conclude contracts. sign financi and other documents of the Foundation. issue proxies.
and open accounts with banks ana other credit insutuuons:
*     shaUl perform other funcuons related to the dav-to-dav manamement of the Foundation's
axviies. and shall carrv out other funcuons assigaed to him bv the Ass=molv or Board of
Dicors.



*10 -
7the Direcror-Coordinator of the Foundation's Programs
4.19   The Director-Coordinator of the Foundation's Programs shall be the Foundanon's official
conducusmz the Foundanon's programs implemnentauon. The Director-Coordinator of the Foundation's
Programs shall act for the Generai Director in the absence of the latter.
4.20   The Director-Coordinator of the Foundanon's Programs shall form collecuves for the
lmpiementation of spciic programs. and shall coordinate the iuplementaton.
4.21 The Director-Coordinator of the Foundz.zon's Prommms shall report to the General
Director of the Foundation within the scope of his/her authontv and shall perform hzsiher duties on the
basis of the contract wtth the Chairman of the Foundation.
The Academic Council of the Foundation
4.22. The Foundation's Academic Council shall be the scientific and consultative bodv of the
Foundation.
Tlhe Academuc Council shall be created bv the Foundation's Board of Directors. drawing on highy
qualified specialists in the area of economuc and socia sciences. includinz foreiners. Nvho shall serve three-
vear tesms. A member of the Acaderrc Council mav serve no more than tvo consecuuve terns.
MWetn2s of the Acadmic Council shall be neid at least twice a vear.
4.23. The Academic Council:
* shall approve the auaiificauon requirements for hurinz the Foundation s deDarrnentai directors.
consultants. and experts:
* shall advise the Founaation's management with regard to the pnncipal areas of the Foundation's
acIvities:
* shall revieW the annual survev of econoric policv of the Russian Federation prepared bv the
Foundation for publication:
* shall discuss the most important studies being performed by the Foundation. shall provide expert
evaluations of them. and also recommend them for publication:
* shall submit to the Board of Directors an annual report evaluaing the ievel of expert analytical
work perfomied bv the Foundation:
* shall perform other pmfessional tasks as assigned bv the Board of Directors:
* shall preset its conclusions as rcomendations TO the Predent and management of the
Founain.



- I 1 -
V. The Foundation's Accounting and Reporting
5.1. The Foundaimon shall maintain rouune. bookkeepmg, and stausticai accounts. and shall compile
and submfut reports m accordance with the procedure speczfied by the legislation.
The Foundation shall publish annual reports on the use of its property.
5.2. If interational agreements referred to in secton 1.4 of this Charter. and agrements of the
Foundation regarding the use of loans or grants received from internationai organztions or foreign legal
entities. stipulate that accoung and reportng procedures follow regulations that differ from those
required bv the legislation of the Russian Federauon. the Foundation shall manitain paralel records and
compilc reports following these regulanons.
5.3. T}e Foundation's Auditor shall momtor the Foundation's financial and economic activities.
The Auditor shall act on the basis of an aareement with the Foundaton. A decision bv the Board of
Direcrs regarding seleon of an Auditor shall be subjea to approvai bv the Foundation's Board of
Trustees.
5.4. The Foundation's acuvities shall be subject to a mandatorv audit at the end of each financial
ver. The Founatioan's officiais shall be required to firnish the Auditor with all docurmets pertning to
the Foundauion's acavities, as required by htun tO perforn isi official responsibilities.
VI. The Foundation's Sources of Financing and Propert
6.1. Tle Foundation's sources of financing shall be:
*    contributions bv founders (members);
*    comnbuuons made bv Russian and foreign organizanons that are earmammed for performance
of the Foundation s chartered activiues:
*    fsunds allocated b% the Government of the Russian Federauon for performance of chartered
activities. n accordance with deisions and agreements referred to in section 1.4 of this
Charter:
*    earnings from work perforrned and services provided for govenmrent agencies. state
institutions. and other noncommercial oraniztons:
*    other sources not prohibited bv the tegisiaticn im force.
6.2. The Foundation shall enjov the rights of ownership %ith regard to its propertm. including
properm transferred to it bv its founders (members). lhe Foundation's properry shall be used bv it
exclusiveiv to carrv out the objecuves and fimctions specified in this Charter.
The Foundation shall publish annual reports on the use of its propemr,. in accordance with the
procedure supulated by the legslation in force.
6.3. The Foundations propertv and income shall not be subject to redistibution among the
Fndatonos founders (members), with the excepti  of the following payments to a founder (member):



- i2 -
*    remtal fees for office space provided to the Foundation by the founder tm=rnber; in queston:
*    rmunbursement for actual expenses to support the Foundation s activities which are incurred
bv the founder or member mn quesutn.
VII. Creation. Reorganization. and Liquidation of the Foundation
7.1. The Foundanion shall be created in accordance with the legislation of the Russiar Federaton
permining to noncommerciai or"nzunons. The Foundation's Charter shall be approved by the Founders'
Assemblv
7.2. The Foundation may be reorzanuzed by a decision of the Founders' (Memoers') Assemblv in
accordance wiuh the procedure specuied bv the lesiation in force.
7.3. The Foundation may be liquidated in those cases specified in Article 119 of the Civil Code of
the Russian Fedeation. on the basis of a court decision made at the request of the relevant govemnmem
authonues or mterested parues. inciuding a request from the Founatiorln. submirted in accordance with a
decision bv the Assemblv. approved bv a two-thirds moritv.
7.4. In the evcnt of liquidation of the Foundation. the propertv remaining after all the creditors'
claims have been me shall be transferred to orgaizations engaged in activities that are consistent with the
pnncipal objecuves of the Founanon.
Following liquidation. all of the Foundations documents shall be transferred to the state for
safekeeping in accordance vuth the established procedure.



APPENDIX 7
INTERNAL RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Contents:
Part 1.      General provisions.
Part II.     Bureau of Economic Analysis
Part 111.    Founders and Members
Part IV.     General Assembly
Part V.      Board of Trustees
Part VI.     Board of Directors
Part VII.    Academic Council
Part VIII.   President of the Bureau
Part IX.     Executive Office.
PART I.      GENERAL PROVISIONS
I .    The Internal Rules and Regulations are a part of the documentation for establishment and
functioning of the Bureau of Economic Analysis (further as Bureau or BEA). The Internal Rules
and Regulations concern the governance of the Bureau and thus represent the statutory part of
the Operations Manual, which further covers operational Policies and Procedures.
2.     *The highest statute of the Bureau is the Charter. The Internal Rules and Regulations elaborate
procedures pursuant to the Charter and must be in conformity with the Charter. In case of
contlict or unclear interpretation among the Charter, Internal Rules and Regulations and
Operations Manual, the Charter prevails.
3.     The Internal Rules and Regulations must be approved by the General Assembly of
Founders/members and will remain valid until modified by the General Assemblv. The
remaining parts of the Operations Manual have to be approved by the Board of Directors.
4.     *In accordance with the Project Agreement, changes to the Internal Rules and Regulations must
be satisfactory to the Bank.
5.     All the documentation (e.g. minutes of meetings) of the entities of governance of the Bureau will
be kept in the office by the Director General of the Bureau and will be distributed as appropriate.
6.    The rules and regulations cover the constituent entities of the governance structure of the
Bureau:
I .    Founders and members of BEA
2.    Board of Trustees
3.    Board of Directors
4.    Academic Council
5.    President
6.    Executive Office



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 2
PART I1.      THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.
1.     Tzhe purpose of thle Bureau.
The Bureau is established by its Founders to fulfill the purpose and obligations described in its
Charter and stated in additional documents.
2.     The status of the Bureau.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis (further as the Bureau) is a nonprofit state-owned
Foundationi, registered with the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the laws of the Russian
Federation .
PART III.    THE FOUNDERS AND MEMBERS
1.     The Founders and Members of the Bureau.
The Founders of the Bureau are:
I.    The Academy of National Economy under the Government of the Russian Federation
-_.    The Higher School of Economics under the Ministry of Economy of the Russian
federation and the State Committee for Higher Education.
2.     Cooptation of new Members as Founders.
The Founders can invite other entities in Russia to become new members. Such an invitation is
to be extended on behalf of the Founders by the General Assembly of Founders. After
acceptance of membership the new members have equal rights and obligations and are fully
represented in the General Assembly.
The initiative to propose additional founders may come from any Founder of the Bureau,
acceptance as a new Founder/member has to be approved by the General Assembly. The
cooptation has to be recorded in the minutes of the General Assembly meeting.
3.     Financial contribution of Founders.
The original Founders make contribution to the BEA Foundation in accordance with the BEA
Charter. The amount of contribution of new members, if any, is initially decided by the General
Assembly at the time the decision of membership extension is made, but could be amended at
.anv subsequent meeting.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 3
4.     Cessation of membership.
Each Founder/member has the right to cease participation as the Founder/member. If a
Founder/member wishes to do so, it must give one month notice to that effect to the other
Founders/members through the President of the Foundation. The Founder/member will then
cease his membership as the Founder and participation in the governance bodies of the Bureau at
the date the notice comes into effect.
If any of the Founders/members cease to exist as an entity, for instance is divided into two,
combined with another, reorganized and renamed, then its membership as a Founder of the
Bureau is abrogated. Any replacing or otherwise derived organization from the original founder
will have the right to apply to be coopted as the Founder/member.
-5.    The representation of the Founders in governance bodies of the Bureau.
The Founders and members will be represented each in the General Assembly, which will make
decisions regarding the Bureau on behalf of the Founders and members.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 4
PART IV.    GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
1.    Status of the General Assembly.
The General Assembly of Founders/members is the highest decision-making body of the
governance svstem of the Bureau. The General Assembly is the representative entity of the
Founders/members and expresses their instructions.
The deliberations and resolutions at the meeting of the General Assemblv will primarily be
concerned with the interests of the Founders, these, however, should only take place within the
framework of the agreed mandate and the goals of the Bureau to which the Founders/members
made explicitly and implicitly their commitment by the act of approving BEA Charter.
2.    Appointment to the General Assemblv.
The Head of each Founder/member organization will appoint its delegate, as a rule a senior
official, to represent the Founder at the meeting of the General Assemblv. This appointment can
be done for each meeting of the General Assembly separately.
Membership in the General Assembly is compatible with the membership in the other
-overnance bodies of the Bureau, with the exception of the Executive Management.
3.    Rights and responsibilities of the General Assembly.
The General Assembly has the following rights and responsibilities:
A.    Approve the Bureau's Charter as well as any subsequent amendment or revision.
B.    Elect and appoint the Board of Trustees: each member and the Chairman.
C.    Elect and appoint the members of the BEA Board of Directors.
D.    Approve additional Founders/members.
E.    Appoint the President of the Bureau upon recommendation of the Chairman of the Board
of Trustees.
F.    Request reports from any entity of the Bureau, assess the Bureau's performance, and
instruct the Bureau's executive management and its governance entities to take the
required action.
G.    Request and decide on reorganization of the Foundation.



BEA Internal rutles and regulations
page 5
H.    Recommend liquidation of the Bureau to the Founders in accordance with the legislation
of tle Russian Federation on Foundations (article 119 of the Civil Code) and in
agreement with other interested parties (eg. The World Bank). Liquidation will have to
be approved by two thirds of Founders.
4.     Decision-makling in the General Assembly.
Unless there is a consensus, the Chairman of the General Assembly will submit issues to ballot.
Unless othervise decided, for positive decisions (acceptance etc.) a simple majority should be
adopted. For negative decisions (e.g. removal of Chairman) two third of the votes are required.
In case of a tie, the Chairman's vote is decisive.
Decisions on the revision of the Charter. reorganization of the Foundation and co-optation of
new members must be approved bv two thirds of the members.
5.     Structure of the General Assembly.
The General Assembly will consist of a Chairman and members.
6.     Election of the Chairman of the General Assembly.
The General Assembly will elect its Chairman, who will afterwards manage the General
Assemblv's business. The Chairman of the General Assembly will be elected for each meeting.
The election of the Chairman will be carried out by a vote of the General Assembly. Any
member of the Assembly can propose another member for the post of the Chairman.
7.     Duties of the Chairman of the General Assembly.
The Chairman's duties are as follows:
A.    Chair the meeting to accomplish the objectives set in the agenda.
B.    Record the deliberations and decisions of the General Assembly and convey these to the
appropriate recipients.
C.    Carry any other tasks entrusted to him or her by the Assembly.



BEA Internal rziles and regulations
page 6
8.     Suspension of the Chairman and the members of the General Assembly.
Any member of the General Assembly can be recalled by its Founder at any time.
9.     Meetings of the General Assemblv.
The General Assemblv will be convened at least once a year to discuss the agenda presented to
it by the President.
The decisions of the General Assembly as well as its deliberations will be recorded in writing
(minutes of the meeting). The minutes will be submitted to all Founders for information and to
both the Board of Trustees and Board of Directors for execution.
An extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly can be proposed by any member. Such a
proposal must be substantiated by a proposed agenda to be discussed. The proposal must be
submitted to the President of the Foundation who will elicit views of the other Assembly
members. If a simple majority of the Assembly members express an agreement with convening
an extraordinary meeting then the President convenes the meeting. In case of a tie of votes the
Chairman's vote is decisive.
An extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly can be convened on the initiative of the
Board of Trustees or a Board of Directors through the President of the Foundation.
All voting of the General Assembly, except in cases specifically stated otherwise in this
document, will be ruled in accordance with principles given in article four of this document.
A Xote on an issue in the General Assembly to be valid requires at least half of the members of
the General Assembly voting.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 7
PART V.       BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Status of the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees is the governing entity of the Bureau that is entrusted with the overall
supervision of the Bureau's activities aiming to ensure that the Bureau's operations comply with
the provisions of its charter and with the needs of the Bureau's clients, and are conducted with
utmost efficiency and competence.
2.     Establishment of the Board of Trustees.
The General Assemblv will at the latest at its second meeting elect and appoint the Board of
Trustees. that is the Chairman as well as the individual members. The General Assembly will
also decide on the number of members in the Board of Trustees. It is recommended that this
number is not lower than nine and higher than fifteen.
The members of the Board of Trustees will be appointed on the basis of their qualification,
professional reputation, recognized integrity and involvement in the process of economics and
social transition in Russia. They will be appointed as individuals, not as representatives of any
other organization or interest and will be entirely free to express their view and opinions on the
subjects under enquiry, having the goals of the Bureau in mind.
Normally the members of the Board of Trustees will be appointed for the period of three years,
with the maximum of two consecutive terms in service, provided the conditions stated in the next
article are met. At the end of the members' term the Chairman of General Assembly will
negJotiate extension of the existing members and/or bringing in new members.
3.     Membership of the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees will have a Chairman and members.
Althoughd the members are appointed in their personal capacity, their appointment must comply
witlh the following rule: majority of the members of the Board must be high ranking officials of
the Government of the Russian Federation. The non-governmental members must be outstanding
public figures in their field. The criteria of personal qualification as well as position in the
government of the two thirds of members of the Board of Trustees applies as a condition for
continuation of membership of the Board.
The Chairman of the General Assembly will negotiate membership in the Board of Trustees with
the members individually.



BEA Internal rtles and regulations
page 8
4.     The Chairman of the Board of Trustees.
The Chairmani of the Board of Trustees will be elected by the General Assembly, as a person of
(a) an outstanding achievements and unblemished reputation and (b) on the grounds of his
position in the Government of the Russian Federation, specifically as the government official
entrusted witlh the overall management of the economy on the country, normally Deputy Prime
Minister. Compliance with this rule is a condition for operation of the Bureau. Both criteria must
be complied with in his or her election, appointment and performance of duties, as the
Chairrnan of the Board of Trustees.
The period of Chairman's tenure is entirely dependent on1 the criteria stated above.
5.     The rights and obligations of the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees shall:
I.     Advise on overall strategic direction of the Bureaz 's activities.
This will be done by a written letter from the Chairnan of the Board of Trustees to the
President of the Bureau. The strategic direction mav change from time to time in
accordance with the government priorities.
2.     ContJrol uise offinancial resources of the Bureau to correspond to its aims and
wvorkplans.
This will be done through review of the BEA Annual Report as well as through
appointment of auditors and review of their report.
Reviewv and Approve the Bureau s Annual Report.
The report will contain description of achievements and problems of the past year,
including a statement of expenditures as related to the budgets and workplans, the
concerns at the time of the submission, and the annual plan and budget as well as the
sources of financing.
The Annual Report will be prepared under the supervision of the BEA President and
submitted first to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will study the report,
comment on various aspects of the report as seen appropriate, and present it with
recommendation to the Board of Trustees for formal approval.
The details of the contents, structure and format of the report are in the Operations
manual.
4.    Mifonitor implenmentation of the decisions of the General Assembly and Board of Trustees.
The Chairman of the Board of Trustees will request reports on implementation from the
President of the Bureau.



BEA Internal rules and regutlations
page 9
9.    Appoint the Bureau 's auiditor
The Board will appoint the Bureau's auditor on recommendation of the BEA President
and after concurrence by the Wold Bank.
6.    .Approve annual accounts of the Bureau.
This will be done in connection with the submitted Annual Report.
Initiate extraordinary meetings of the General Assembly.
The Chairman of the Board of Trustees will initiate an extraordinary meeting of the
General Assembly to be convened if he so deems appropriate (e.g. appointment of
additional members of the Board of Trustees, replacement of a member, etc.).
The Board of Trustees has the following rights:
1.    On the basis of the review of the Bureau's performance request from the Board of
Directors termination of the contract with the BEA Director General and his/her
replacement by a new nominee.
2.     Receive a Quarterly Activity Report from the executive office of the Bureau.
3.     Request and receive a copy of the report submitted by the Independent Auditors to the
Board of Directors.
4.     Request and receive any relevant information from the President and the Director
General of the Bureau related to the scope of duties of the Board.
M,lake freelv any of the decisions stated in its list of obligations.
6.     Receive full administrative support for its activities from the Executive Office of the
Bureau.
7.     Proposes, through its Chairman, the candidate for the position of the BEA President to
the General Assembly.
8.     Be reimbursed for the expenses incurred in connection with fulfilment of their
membership duties.
6.     Decision- making in the Board of Trustees.
Unless a clear consensus is reached by the Board of Trustees, issues will be submitted to vote by
the Chairman of the Board of Trustees.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 10
If not stated otherwise, positive decisions will require a simple majority vote, negative decision a
two third majority. In case of a tie the Chairman's vote is decisive.
At least two thirds of the members of the Board must vote for the decision submitted to ballot to
be valid. The vote for a particular issue may be expressed in accordance with the voting
procedures at the Trustees meeting or may be, in case of physical absence of a member,
submitted to the Chairman in writing.
7.    NMeetings of the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees will hold a regular meeting at least once a year, as a rule prior to the
meeting of the General Assembly.
The Chairman of the Board of Trustees can convene an extraordinary meeting at his discretion
after obtaining concurrence from no less than one third of the members.
The deliberations, decisions and recommendations of the meetings will be recorded by the
(Chairman of the Board of Trustees and submitted both to the General Assemblv for information
as Nvell as to the Board of Directors for execution.
The quorum is more than twvo thirds of all members voting, a tie will be decided by the
Clhairman's vote.



BEA Internal rules and reguilations
page II
PART V'I.    BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
1.     Status of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors is the governing entity entrusted with the operational management of the
Bureau with duties and rights stipulated further in this document.
2.     Establishment of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors will be established by the General Assembly at its second meeting at the
latest.
The Board will consist of the Board Chairman, his two Deputies and members.
3.     Membership in the Board of Directors.
Each Founder/member will appoint a high-ranking official from its structure as its representative
into the Board of Directors (Representative members). Such representation will cease when the
individual leaves the organization, unless elected to the Board of Directors by the General
Assembly on a personal basis. In such a case, the Founder/Member will appoint a replacement
from within the structure.
The General Assembly as a collective organ can appoint additional members to the Board on a
personal basis on the grounds of their professional expertise in the areas that fall within the scope
of the Bureau at anv time, while majority of the Board must be representatives of the federal
.overnment authorities. All members have equal rights and obligations.
The representative members will be normally elected for three years or until thev remain as
representatives of the Founder/member, whichever is shorter, with two consecutive terms as
maximum. The additional members will be elected for the three years period.
The President of the Bureau is the Board member ex officio.
4.     Cessation of membership in the Board of Directors.
4.1. A representative member can cease to be a member of the Board if:
a.     He or she is recalled by his Founder/member
b.     Submits his resignation for whatever reason



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 12
c.     Is negligent in exercising his duties as a Board member.
In the case ad c. the Chairman/Deputv Chairman of the Board of Directors will have to request
replacement by the Founder/member after two thirds of the members vote for the member's
suspensioni.
4.2. Additional member can cease to be a member if items b. and c. above apply.
5.     Chairman/ Deputv Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board of Directors is elected bv the General Assembly. Deputv Chairmen are
elected by the Board of Directors. They can be either representative or additional members. In
the absence of the Chairman, the function of chairing the meetings of the Board will be rotated
among the Deputv Chairmen.
Chlairman and his Deputies can cease to be in their post if:
a.     They cease to be Board members
b.     They are negligent in exercising their duties.
In case of ad b. two thirds of votes with two thirds of members voting.
6.     Meetings of the Board.
The Board of Directors will meet on an "as needed" basis, but at least every three months. The
agenda of the meetings wvill be determined by the Board itself. Proceedings of the meetings will
be recorded and the record distributed to all the entities of the Bureau.
The Board members must attend the meetings in person. No substitution is acceptable. A
quormm is presence of at least 50% of the members.
UInless stated otherwise any positive decision will be deemed as approved by a simple majority
of those present. In case of a tie the Chairman's vote is decisive. Negative decisions (dismissal,
withdrawal of approval etc.) have to be approved by two thirds of members.
The Board members have an obligation of conduct that precludes actual or potential conflict of
interest, consequentlv the Board members will not vote or comment on matters (e.g. project or
procurement) which could result in gain for persons or organizations with whom the Board
member has a business or close personal association.



BEA Internal rzles and regutlations
page 13
7.     Obligation of the Board of Directors.
I.    Appoint the BEA Director General.
The detailed provisions of this obligation is given further in the article 8 of this part of
the Internal Rules and Regulations.
2.     Elects Deputy Director General ( Director - Coordinator of Programs).
3.     Appoint the members and the chairman of the Academic Council.
4.     Review the Bureau's annual plans and budgets, including sources of financing and after
concurrence submit to the Board of Trustees for approval.
5.    Approve organization and staffing of the Bureau
6.     Review Annual report of the Bureau and after concurrence submit to the Board of
Trustees for approval
7.     Review and submits for approval to the Board of Trustees BEA annual financial report
8.     Carry out quality control of BEA output.
9.     Selects the BEA auditor and submits for confinnation to the Board of Trustees.
10.    Approve Operations manual of the Bureau.
I 1.    Approve awards of contracts for goods, works and services in excess of $ 250,000.
12.    Exercise the control over the Bureau's activities, with exception of those assigned
specifically to other governing entities, and take steps as necessary.
This includes not only overseeing the policy analysis work, but also ensuring that the
Bureau continuously strives to enhance its own capabilities as well as the associated
institutions' for economic policy analysis on a scientific and objective basis. Special
emphasis should be given to supervision of the Bureau's activities in the area of training,
fellowshiips and secondment of the ministries' officials.
8.     Appointment of the Director General.
8.1.   Appointment of temporary Director General.
The Board will first appoint a temporary "Interim Director General" to function until the time
the Bureau is officially and formally established as an independent foundation in accordance
with all the legislative rules of the Russian Federation. As soon as the BEA President is
appointed, the position of "Interim Director General" ceases to exist and the President takes over



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 14
all the duties. including the selection of a permanent Director General. Holding the position of
"Interim Director General" does not preclude the holder to be a candidate for the permanent
appointment. The appointment has to be consulted with the World Bank.
8.2.   Appointment of permanent Director General.
The selection of the Bureau's Director General has to be made from at least three qualified
candidates proposed by the BEA President. It is the duty of the President to collect the
nominationis, prepare appropriate documentation and submit the candidates to the Board of
Directors for consideration.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors mav, at his discretion, establish a "Selection
Committee". which would consider all the candidates and. on the basis of their CV and possibly
an interview, produce a shortlist of recommended candidates. The shortlist of the candidates
should not consist of fewer than three persons and more than five. The Curricula Vitae of the
shortlisted three candidates must be submitted to the World Bank and the shortlist obtain "no
objection'" from the Bank.
The Chairmnan of the Board will submit the shortlist of the candidates to the Board for
consideration. The Board will decide on the selection of the candidates for the position of the
Director General in the order of priorities.
The Board of Directors will authorize its Chairman to negotiate and sign a contract with the
elected Director General. The terms and conditions of engagement of the Director General will,
unless otherwise agreed, comply with those stated in the Operations Manual and agreed with the
World Bank.
If the number one candidate declines the offer of the position of Director General. the Chairman
of the Board of Directors will then approach the candidate number two on the shortlist. If the
candidate accepts the offer, his formal appointment has still to be confirmed by the Board of
Trustees.
The Board of Directors is also authorized to dismiss the Director General ( on the
recommendation of the President), and accept his/her resignation in accordance with the
stipulation of the contract of emplovment, the relevant legislation and provisions of the
Operations manual.
9.     A dissolution of the Board of Directors.
A dissolution of the Board of Directors as an entity is within the authority of the body that
appointed it, that is the General Assemblv.



BEA Internal rules and regztlations
page 15
PART VII.   ACADENIIC COUNCIL
1.    Status of the Academic Council.
The Academic Council is a permanent professional advisory and review body of the Bureau. It is
an autonomous entity free to carry out its duties without any outside interference.
2.     Establishment of the Academic Council.
The Council will be formally established by the Board of Directors at the latest at its second
meeting. The members of the Academic Council will be appointed by the Board of Directors.
Prior to formal establishment of the Academic Council, a preliminary group of academicians and
experts may be set up, if deemed necessarv bv the President. to carry out some of the duties of
the council, especially approving qualification requirements for the senior staff of the Bureau.
The decisions of this group will be reviewed by the Council after it is formally set up.
3.     Membership of the Academic Council.
The members of the Council will be appointed on the grounds of their national and international
standinig in the economic profession as individuals. The consenting as well as dissenting views of
the members have to be recorded in the minutes of the Council's meetings.
The membership in the Council is not in anv way restricted bv sex, nationality, religion or race
and in fact a variety in membership is preferred.
The members of the Academic Council will be proposed by the governance entities of the
Bureau.
The members of the Academic Council will be appointed for the period of three years. with two
terms of service as maximum.
A member of the Academic Council can be removed from the Council by the Board of Directors
for the following reasons:
A.    A member's resignation or death.
B.    Members' negligence in fulfilment of his duties.
Removal of the member for negligence of fulfilment of his duties has to be evidenced by lack of
attendance at meetings or inadequate contribution to the work of the Council and has to be
approved by the Council members themselves with two thirds of votes in favour. Proposal for
removal of a member can come from any member of the Council.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 16
The members of the Academic Council may not participate in any evaluation or function in
which thev would have a personal or professional conflict of interest. Internal BEA members of
the Council will not participate in anv evaluation of BEA products and activities by the Council.
4.     Chairman of the Council.
The Chairman of the Council will be elected by the Board of Directors.
The Chairman of the Council will direct the Council's activities during his elected period.
5.     The functions of the Academic Council.
The Academic Council will fulfill the following functions:
I.    Review qualification requirements for the managerial and professional staff of the
Bureau as well as long-term consultants and if asked by the President review the
qualification of short-listed candidates for the senior positions in the Bureau and presents
its views on the subject.
2.     Review the Annual Report on the state of the economy. The Report must be approved by
the Council before it can be published.
3.     Assess the most important studies produced by the Bureau and produce expert opinion
including recommendation for publication. Members of the Council will be appointed to
both Project Outline meetings and Project Evaluation Review.
4.     Produce assessment of quality of the Bureau's output for each year and submit its report
to the Board of Directors, Board of Trustees and the President of the Bureau.
This report will be primarily based on the data from the Bureau's Quarterly progress
Report which the Council will receive from the Director General.
5.     Upon request by The Board of Directors carry out any appropriate professional task.
6.     Submits its recommendations to the President and executive management of BEA.
7.     Provides to the Bank as requested or appropriate any report pursuant to Bank-financed
activities.
6.     Meetings of the Council.
*The Academic Council will meet no less than twice a year. The Chairman of the council will



BEA Internal rmles and regulations
page 17
convene a meeting to review the progress of BEA as reported in its regular Quarterly Progress
Report and other reports.
The Chairman of the Academic Council can convene an extraordinary meeting at any time to
fulfill the Council's functions.
It is the Chairman's duty to familiarize all the members of the Council with all the necessary
documentation regarding items on the agenda sufficient time beforehand.
The Chairman of the Council may accept comments, proposals and votes of its foreign members
through a long-distance written submission, for instance fax or e-mail. Votes submitted on an
item in the agenda by this manner are equallv valid as if the member were physically present.
The Council members have an obligation of conduct that precludes actual or potential conflict of
interest.
7.     Mode of operation of the Council.
The Academic Council will work primarily as a body with a regular statutorv duties, that is it
will review and assess the Bureau's work at its meetings.
The Academic Council will respond for any request for advice from the President of BEA. The
Chairman of the Council may convene a full Council meeting to develop response to the BEA's
request or may to either create a special task force or assign one member of the Council to
develop such response. A similar arrangement applies to tasks entrusted to it by the Board of
Directors.
Any initiative by the Council will be proposed to the Board of Directors and if approved carried
OLut accordinglyv.
Attendance of meetings and work outside the meetings by the members of the Council as well as
the related expenses will be reimbursed by the Bureau.
8.     Dissolution of the Academic Council.
A dissolution of the Academic Council as an entity is within the authority of the body that
appoilted it, that is the Board of Directors, provided concurrence is obtained from the Board of
Trustees.



BEA Internal rzles and regulations
page 18
PART VIII. PRESIDENT OF THE FOUNDATION
A.     The Presidlent.
The overall non-executive head of the Bureau is its President who is responsible for the overall
managemenit of the Bureau. The president is appointed by the General Assembly on
recommendation of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees.
The responsibilities and authorities of the President are as follows:
1.    Convenes General Assembly meetings and proposes its agenda
2.     Serves as a liaison between the Board of Trustees and the Board of Directors of the
Bureau.
3.     As instructed by the Chairman of the board of Directors, serves as a liaison between the
Board of Trustees and the Executive Office of the Bureau and conveys and controls
implementation of the instructions of the Board to the Executive.
4.     Carries out strategic planning of the Bureau's activities, analyses the results of its
activities and also controls fulfilment of the plans and adherence to the budgetary limits.
5.     Supervises production of the Bureau's Annual Plan and Budget.
6.     Reserves the right to review the Project Outlines for important studies as well as the
policy study reports and to require revisions.
7.     Reserves the right to receive reports from the Executive Office on the progress of work
and management, financial and personnel matters and in case of deviations from the
plans and standards and procedures of the Operations Manual to act speedily to correct
the situation.
8.    If so instructed by the Board of Trustees or Board of Directors represent the Bureau to
outside entities.
The President of the Bureau can be relieved of his post by the General Assemblv on
recommendation of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees.



BEA Internal rules and regulations
page 19
PART IX.                          EXECUTIVE OFFICE.
1.    Status of the Executive Office.
The Executive Office of the Bureau is responsible for carrying out the activities and outputs
stated and implied in the Charter.
2.     Structure of the Executive office.
A.    The Bureau's Director GeneraL
The Head of the Executive Office is its Director General.
The Director General will perform his duties in accordance with the contract of employment
negotiated and signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Reporting to the Director General will be Executive Officers of the Bureau:
A.    Deputy Director General (Director Coordinator of Programs).
Deputy Director General will be in charge of Policy Analysis Department. The Deputy
Director General (Program Coordinator) must be selected from the shortlist of
candidates, prepared by the President and approved by the World Bank, by the Board of
Directors, with the Director General having the right to veto the appointment.
B.    Scientific Secretary.
Scientific Secretary will be heading Scientific Secretariat and will be responsible for
liaison with the national and international organizations. The shortlist candidates will be
proposed by the President, approved by the World Bank, the candidate selected by the
Director General.
C.    Manager of Adiministration.
Manager of Administration will be responsible for all administrative support functions of
the Bureau. His or her selection will be ruled by the same principles and procedures as
the selection and appointment of the Deputy Director General.
D.    Ch ief Accountant.
The Chief Accountant will be responsible for financial management and accounting
function of the Bureau.



BEA Internal rutles and regulations
page 20
4.     The rights and obligations of the Director General.
The Director General has the right to act on behalf of the Bureau and to represent the Bureau in
relations with state institutions, organization and citizens in the Russian Federation as well as
abroad.
The Director General shall among other:
appoint and terminate the Bureau's personnel in accordance with the labour legislation,
ildividual contracts and the Bureau's procedures
manage the Bureau's funds and property, human, material and financial resources
sign contracts. financial and other documents, open accounts at banks and make
pavments to suppliers and employees
carry out all the other management functions as described in the Bureau's Operations
'vlanual and carry out all the other functions entrusted to him by the governing
authorities of the Bureau.
J.     Termination of service of the Executive Officers.
The Director General and his Executive Officers shall terminate their service for the following
reasoons:
resignation from the post
death or incapacity
dismissal.
The manner the services of the Director General and the Executive Officers will be terminated
will be determined by the individual contracts, the Labour legislation of the country and the
Bureau's internal procedures as described in the Operations Manual.
The termination of service of the Director General will be handled by the Chairman of the Board
of Directors in cooperation with the President, of the Executive Officers by the President in
cooperation with the Director General.
6.     Svstems and procedures.
The Director General and all his staff will follow policies and procedures described in the
Bureau's Operations Manual approved by the Board of Directors.
C 'lMCE.WPWIMWPDOCS\BL-\RULES16.WPD 24 April 1997



APPENDrX 8
OPERATIONS MLANUAL: TABLE OF CONTEITS
Contents of the Operations Manual.
General
1-1    General guidelines to BEA Operations Manual
1-'   BEA numbering svstem
2.     Organization of the Bureau of Economic Analvsis
'-I    Oreanization of the BEA
' Mode of operation of BEA
z-' t  Functionis and Responsibilities of BEA
2-4   Job descriptions
2-5    Staffing tables
2-6    Nlonitoring and impact indicators
3.     Work Planning and Control
3-1 Plroject planning and control
3-      o ( oiput er-assisted proiect planning and mnontoring
>.- .    PlanningL and execution of projects
3-4    Progress reporting
3-5    Pricing of the Bureau's output.
3-(    Publication of BEA output
4.     Procurement and Contracting
4-1    Procurement of Goods and Works
4-2    Procurement of consulting services
4-3.   Formnat for contracts for consulting services
4-4    Requtest /br Proposal tBidding documents,
4-S    Contruct .4dministration
5u     Financial Management
5-I    BEA Budizetinc ssstem
6.     Administration, Personnel and Miscellaneous.
6-1    BEA Personnel Policies
6-2    Staff recruitment and selection
6- *    Staff remuneration.
6-4    Termis and conditions for BEA contracted emplovees.
6-5    Terms and conditions for individual consultants.
6-o    Traininc and secondment
6--    Business trips.
6-8    Employee orientation
6-9    Performance Revievk
7.     Statutory documents.
Charter of BEA
Initernial Rules anid Regulations                C %OFFICE WPWIN\WPDOCS\BEA\OPMA\LAL O-O% WPD
January 17 1QC)






APPENDIX 9
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
THE FOUNDERS/MEMBERS:
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF
FOUNDERS & MEMBERS
THE WORLD 
INDIVIDUALS APPOINTED BY THE                                    BANRK
FOUNDERS TO REPRESENT THEM IN       I
GOVERNANCE OF THE BEA.
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY ELECTS AND
APPOINTS:
THE BOARD                THE BOARD
OF                       O               Concurrence
TRUSTEES                DIRECTORS
appoints an t     n   b
lnd   D Ipt
l iaison   _ j        __poscby Bo r.df
BEA operations to
proceed in accordance
with the World Bank
THE ACADEMIC                  EXECUTIVE            requirements, when
COUNCIL                  DIRECTOR OF BEA         financed from the loan.
2.1  vteD-.o  



Operations Manual 2-1                                        BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Attachment 1.
Functional organizational chart
| BUREAU'S    l
MANAGEMENT 
POLICY ANALYSIS            ADMINISTRATIVE          FINANCE AND           SCIENTIFIC
SUPPORT             ACCOUNTING           SECRETARIAT
- MACROECONOMICS,             - PERSONNEL           - FINANCES         - GOVERNMENT LIAISON
ECONOMIC GROWTH
- PROCUREMENT         - ACCOUNTING       - INTERNATIONAL CONTACTS
- PRIVATE FINANCIAL SYSTEM,
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND    - OFFICE SERVICES     MANAGEMENT        - SEMINARS AND CONFERENCES
MARKETS                      - TELECOMMUNICATIONS                     - EXCHANGE PROGRAMSITRAINING
- INDUSTRIAL POLICY, SAVING   - OFFICE TECHNOLOGY                      - EXTERNAL DONORS AND
AND INVESTMENT                SUPPORT                                  SPONSORSHIPS
- SOCIAL POLICY               - RECEPTION                              - LIAISON/COORDINATION WITH
RUSSIAN INSTITUTES
- TRANSPORTATION
- STATISTICS AND DATA                                                  - PUBlSHING
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS SUPPORT
- PUBLIC RELATIONS
1 VSDPAGE 1                                                             - LIAISON WITH ACADEMIC COUNCIL



APPENDIX 10
STAFFING AND REPORTING STRUCTURE
IIIi   AI.\ I ()I I(U/)NoN11(   \           1 \Y iSIS
Slaffiliig Ih)ic
I'ositioll       1)l ' A   lI Ni1: N I              Sai lBa   cl a  ilica ioliIls               (rande          I'l;nile(l       ( Caliudidalale iall          ActlualI          Actual
Number         Tlille                                                                           ralnlgte        Stalr'li IIg                                  sala/gridt'    slII tilig ulth
BIEA MIANA(GEIMENTU
I-I      I         );iccto  (ic;iciai               D)ircc(to  ((coiieiril                      20              I 97
19
12             SecrCtary to I   ircctor            AdmIl)jnist atk c A\ssista1t                I-              199)7
(icG eral                          Vxectifi\c Sccrctary                        Gi
Stall  \ssistantl                          I
-xccitli% \  Assistant                      I
(I M I1  I \tVI'  IN   k I-[)(,( s III % 011' INN II  'I



Stl;lin'lg lablle : Polia'}  Analy;)sis D)epartmentsc
RC\ isiol 2.
Position    I) 1E ItA R11\ I . NI l                           ta1; r! c lassific;aliolls       ( rade ra ngc   IPI anned      Ca ind ida te ii ante       Actunal          Ac1 nlnI
Ni.in her   Tile                                                                                                startinig                                 salat r^ /gadle   Start ing
dale                             .latle
2-1         M ianiager of l'olic) Analysis De)pl.           D)Cptuil  I)ilcltorG (  ncnral    IX                I 9)7
and l)epiuty l)irector Getnerail                                                   19
2-I    I   De)pal)11 11tr   Sct-cltar)                      lii-liltg,i,il Secretaly             .               1997
Scitior Sccrecanry                 1:
(Ex.ecutae Secretary)              (G)
2-2         Group Manager                                   (inGoup Nlaagel                     16               1997
(Macroeconomics,Economic growth)                                                   1 7
2-21        Researcherl Econiomilist                       IEcoinorntist/PolAnalyst            13               1997
Senior 1conom ist/Analyst          14
Principal                          15
IEononi ist/Analy st
2-3         Group Manager
Private Financial Systems,Financial            (iroulp NManiagcr                   16               1997
institntions amd markets                                                           17
2-3 1       ReseaLirLche/ IEcotnom1ist                      I coiitiitisi/Pol .Analyst          13               1997
Scnior l cconoliaist/Analyst       14
I1riiicipatl                       1 5
I :c ono mi stlAA oat kst
(,:\oli::CI:\WPIWlN\WPtIX)CS\1t1:A\9i'NIANtJAl-\2-SA I 3Z\k.%% 1i)                25 April 19~97



I,lticN A\IlItla  sis I )cpar1t ii  Iato l 2
14vx isioull 
PNositiomi   D)EPARMENTl                       Salary classifications            Grade   Plamnned         (Candidate mianie                Actual          Acital
Number   Title                                                                   range    starting                                         salary/grade   slarting date
date
2-4         (urouilp Manager                  (il}ouip) NIIlaiagt                16        1998
Industrial Policy, Saving&                                           17
inv'est ment
2-41        Relscilemchir/ lEconomiist        L:collolIlisl/IIoI.Al;uly st       13        1997
Senior Economi ist/Anaal)st       14
Principal Economist/Analyst       15
2-5         Group Manager                     (iroup 1l1anagcr                   16        1997
Social Policy                                                        17
2-51        Seniior lconomiaist               Economiist/lPol.Anals st           13        1998
Senior rconominist!Alialyst       14
Principal [conom isl/Aiial'st     15
2-6         Group Manager                     (irouip lNlanalgcl                 16        1997
Statistics and Reports                                               17
2-61        Rescaluclhcl/ I eCollonli s       I1conoli i/I o A  l) st            13        1999
Senior Fconoim ist/Analyst        14
Principal I Fconomi1st/  Anal) st            1 5
C:\OI:FICI,/WPWIN~WPIIX)CS Bi1EA\OI'MANUAI.'2-5A 131W Will)                                      30 Junuan 1997l



stalling t;lle - Putilic) Analysis l)epaltnlmnl   RC\i.>ioi  P. I'aic .
Posilion     1) E1'A RTN 1 EKNT SNI              alary classilicalions             Grade       Planned       (andidate name               Actual         Actual
Number    Title                                                                    rauge      starting                                    slar\! /       saltinin
dtlae                                      gr;ade          Iatle
2-62         In lor0ial. ion1 0lliccrl          I nIIriom,0 t jtion O()fficcr      II          1997
Stir. I IiIIiaImIi(l OIficer      .1
2-63         Researcicr/Econioniiist           l Collniliisl/P'oI.An  S\l t       13          1999
Senior IFcononhisl/Anal3st         14
2-64         Analyst/Statistician              Jutliol IEconoministA Anal) st      12          1999
1.conomist/old A.n\lalyst          13
2-7          Resource I'lanninijg ()Oicer       [ xecitiav' Assislant              I           1998
Resource Planning ()'licer         12
13
2-8I         Researcl1er/Econoni ist            Econom ist/Pol. A nia lyst         13          1997
Senior Economist/Anal) st          14
2-82         Researclier/Econoi ist            lEconomiist/lPoI.Anatk sI           14          1998
Sen ior Economist/Analysl          14
2-83         Analyst                            Junior lPolic) Analyst             II          1999
2-84         Analyst                            Junior Policy Analkst s            I           1997
2-91         Support stalf: Secretary/          13Bilingiual ty                    1)          1999
Wordl priocessillg               13ilinLgilul Seclaclaai             E
(:\()I:IC4t'\WI'WIN\WII)( )(S\liB1A\OI'MANtIAl.\2-5A13YN'.W.'i)     25 April 1997



z "L
-                     ~C
-l -
. -
- zi -   -             -         -         v-
^ Cr )
v -              -zv-- ...,  =     -        -4    Z v        X  
-~~~ -
-~ ~~~~~~ -  -                            -# C)   .
_-o_~~~. C)                                           *- -~--
e~~~~~~~~~ _  ,,C) 
= )        e -                  
s_  __                                                               (J~~~~~~~~
ar.~ ~                            -Jt  C) _   _     - 
^~~~~~ Z)                             C)   - m



B31 LA
Stafin1g tal;c)
Administration (iepartnldnt
Pa~ge 2.
Position    DEPARTMENT                           Salary classifications          G rade       I'lanned        Candidate name            Actual        Actual
Number   Title                                                                   range        starting dlate                           salary         starting
(late
3-52        Receptiollist                        Receptioiiisi                   C            1997
Bilingual Receplio0lis          1)
3-61        Driver                               Driver                          B            1997
3-62        Driver                               Driver                          C
Transportat ionj Coordinator    D            1997
3-71        Person,idl (flicer                   l'ersolilnnl Splcciallist       J            1 999
K
I N0I.C    W 19IA T
c \EFICE\WPWIN\WPIX3t S\EA\()PMANJAI \2.iAT13/ WlPI)



I'inaniicea amnd Accouantiting
Positionl   I)DEPARTMENITk                           Salary classificationis            .rade        I'lanne(          Caandidatc name            Actual         Actual
Number   Title                                                                         range         starling dale                                salary         starling
date
3-21         (hiel Accountant                       Chiel Accounilait                  K              1997
Cthiel [inalcicjal ( Oflicer       16
3-22         Accotntant                             Accoinutailt                       l             1997
Jtiunior AccoLun11,11ta           G
('\OFFI('iLWPWIN\W\l1)0('S\IFA\01'MANkIAI,\2-SA riJ3LA I'k)



Stuallinig table - Scienilliac Sierelarial
Rev.ision 2.
Position     D)EP.A'RIT MENT                     Sal;1r  Classifications         Gratle iPaniied           Candidate nalue             Actual         Actual
Number   lTitle                                                                   range    starting                                    salary/        startilng
da1te                                      gradle         date
4-1          Scientific Secr-etary               Scliciil ic I coil*lalr)         16        1997
(Department Manager)                                                17
18
4-2 1        Secretary/PIA                       Secretai-)                       1)        1997
Secretary (hi-liiglgual)        E
Admn illistiative Assistant     F
4-31        ILiaison Coordinator                  I jasoll ( Coldillatol          (1)       1997
PIR 01icer                     i
K
4-4 1        Editor                              EIditor                          I         1998
Techlinical lIditor             i
4-32         (iroutp Manager                      PR Officci.                     I         1998
niternational contacts             ( irotip Manager                I
K
;:\01J1ICL\WPWIN\WI'1)OCS\IIIA\01PMANLIAIA\2-5AlI 3W/.WI'D)                      30 Januar\ 1997



BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Operations Manual 2-1                                           -1.Director General of BEA
Attachment 2                                                                                              Initial Staffing and  Reporting structure
2-1.Deputy Director General
Manager of Policy Analysis                                               |     1-2. Secretary/ 
Personal Assistant
l   _    ~~~~~~~-. Iec'et-rI
3-1. Manager of                        3-21. Chief                            4-1. Scientific
Administration
& Personnel                         Accountnt                                 Secretary
2-11 Secretary
2-2. Group Manager      -- -                       3-31. Procurement Specialist       - 3-22. Junior Accountant            - 4-21. Secretary/PA
Macroeconomics, Economic                           341 Offce Services officer                                              - 4-31. Liaison Coordinator
Growth341OfieSrieofcr
2-21  ResearcherlEconomist                                                                                                 4-41.
____________________                        - 3-42. Office Technology support
2-3. Group Manager
Private financial system, Financial               - 3-51.Word processing operator                                           4-32
Institutions & Markets
2-31. Researcher/Economist                       - 3-52. Receptionist
Initial staff planned   27
24.                                               - 3-61. Driver                         Target staff planned: 39
- 3-62. Driver                         The chart does not include consultants.
241. Researcher/Economist
- 3-71.                                Note: the charts shows all target positions. The
2-5. Group Manager                                                                       positions to be staffed in year 1 are shown with
Social Policy
numbers and titles, those to be staffed in year2 and
2-51.                                                                                   further are indicated by numbers only.
2-6. Group Manager                                                                       The actual needs may change the structure of
2bt6tk Gru andager
Statist ics and Data                                                                staffing (but not the overall numbers).
2-61
2-62 Information Officer
2-63                       At present
2-64                       unassigned staff,
2-7asarl2la2
2-81 Researcher/Economist  as a rule                                                                                                      2-lai2i
2-82                       allocated to                                                                                                   16 April 1997
2-83                       multiple projects
2-84 Analyst
2 91






APPENDIX 11
WORK PROGRAM OF POLICY STUDIES
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OFFICE
WORK PROGRAM



2
1. Macroeconomic Monetary Policy
The state still retains a strong position in the Russian economy and protectionism in
the form of subsidizing losses due to mismanagement and hopeless loss-making production
entities has not been eradicated. However, the role of the state in regulating economic
processes is still weak and ill-defined. In the macroeconomic sphere monetary regulatory
bodies have managed to achieve control of the main ruble aggregates. The circulation of
surrogate money, however, is totally unregulated. The issue of surrogates is a serious brake
on the implementation of macroeconomic policy leading to growing defaults on payments and
errors in forecasting the main macroeconomic indicators, including the GDP. It raises the
question of the prospects of the development of this segment of money circulation. Another
problem is the lack of adequate macroeconomic forecasting instruments, which prevents
evaluation and analysis of medium-range prospects of economic development of Russia.
Features of the present-day macroeconomic policy. Considering the very mixed results
of progress towards the market at the macro level, including the monetary sphere, an analysis
of macroeconomic policy in the context of slow structural reform is imperative. The search
for macroeconomic solutions calls for the study of a number of specific short-term trends
caused by the flaws in the structural and institutional policy in the transitional period. The
implementation of the monetary policy in turn requires that two priority issues be addressed:
a) how to diminish the role of surrogates in money circulation; and b) to what extent and due
to what causes the danger of further dollarization of the Russian economic persists.
Middle-range macroeconomic policy prospects. An analysis of this problem
presupposes first and foremost a development of a model for medium-range macroeconomic
forecasting. Attempts to develop such a model were made by the IMF and the EBRD. These
were essentially balance models whose main aim was to see that there are no contradictions
between basic premises as regards GDP structure, budget, the balance of payments and the
balance of savings. A group of Russian experts is already developing a medium-range
econometric model. The U.S. Treasury is expected to help in the implementation of that task.
It would be useful to combine all efforts under the Economic Analysis Office considering the
broad possibilities of that organization in terms of enlisting the services of qualified
consultants and the use of research results in the government's conduct of economic policy.
Policv Note. Tactical Tasks of AIacroeconomic Policy and Structural Reform
2.    Tax and Budget Policy. Regional Transfers. Social Sphere Financing
The reduction of the state budget deficit and the rate of inflation has yet to bring
about a cardinal improvement of Russia's financial position. The main cause is the
contraction of budgetary expenditure because of the low tax collectability. Cuts in budget
spending were not accompanied by adequate structural transformations. Budgetary spending
is under heavy pressure to cover the losses of non-government enterprises. Another aspect
of the current policy is substantial undercollection of taxes, largely due to indirect support
of virtual bankrupts through non-payments or direct failure to pay taxes to the federal budget.



3
The issue of surrogate money, which has assumed dangerous proportions, is a way of
avoiding taxes for enterprises and imposing budgetary restrictions on local budgets. In
developing a tax and budgetary policy in Russia one has to bear in mind that the
contributions of enterprises to the pension and social funds, which are impossible to cancel,
account for more than 11 percent of the GDP.
Structural aspects of thle fiscal policy. A comprehensive analysis of the factors which
cause low tax collectability stemming from a lack of coherent structural policy is of primary
importance. The solution of that problem hinges on a consistent development of effective
mechanisms to remove the structural barriers in the way of tax payments into the federal
budget.
The role of subsidies in fiscal policy. In the first place, the scale and sources of
hidden and overt subventions of various economic agents should be analyzed. Specifically,
it is necessary to assess to what extent this is subsidized by federal and local budgets, and
what role the off-budget funds play. The aim of this research is to find ways to reduce or
eliminate the channels for unwarranted subsidizing.
Medium-range budget strategy. A separate study must be devoted to the level and
economic structure of budgetary spending and the size of the budget deficit. Such a study
may provide the basis for budgetary strategy in the coming years. There must be a broad
discussion of possible changes in government policy to ensure for the budget the role of
stimulant of economic activity and a stabilizing macroeconomic factor. It would also be
useful to assess the concrete significance of budgetary means for the financing of the
economy and the servicing of the state debt and reveal the actual share of the sources that
support these functions of the federal budget.
Pilot Project. Reform of the Tax System in Terms of Macroeconomic Effectiveness.
3.    Support of Entrepreneurship. Anti-Monopoly Policy, Natural Monopolies
The Russian economy is still highly monopolized. One of the main causes is continued
significant government participation in the economy and poor development of small and
medium enterprises capable of competing with the former 'monsters". It is no accident that
while incomes are substantially lower than in Europe, the prices for a number of goods,
including daily necessities, have exceeded the average European level. The quality of the
goods and services provided domestically is fairly low. This is particularly true of the
services market where there is virtually no foreign competition. In some sectors services of
acceptable quality are unavailable.
Large-scale production and anti-monopoly policy. The high level of monopolization
in the planned economy was intimately connected with the activities of giant industrial
enterprises. Eliminating the consequences of former monopolism is complicated by the
possible appearance of new entities which behave in a monopolistic way. These include the
financial-industrial groups (FIGs), and vertically integrated oil companies. The main aspects
of anti-monopoly policy that call for broad discussion and mutually coordinated decisions
involve the study of the following issues:



4
* what is the relationship, in terms of macro-economic effectiveness, between such
methods of combating monopolism as downsizing of giant enterprises and the creation.
instead, of small and medium production entities;
* what is the actual impact on the degree of monopolization exerted by the activities
of the FIGs, especially those created 'from the top' by administrative decree.
Regulation of natural monopolies. It is necessary, above all, to determine the reasons
why the corresponding law and regulatory acts fail to ensure effective control of the activities
of natural monopolies and their expenditures. As a result, there is considerable room for
arbitrary price-fixing and cross-subsidizing of tariffs and for providing inferior quality
services. A possible answer to the problem could be a statutory act that would allow the
prices and tariffs of natural monopolies to be challenged, specifically, when services are
substandard.
The problem of the merger of natural monopolies with government agencies called
upon to regulate them must be the subject of broad public discussion. The analysis must take
into account that the government ministries and departments all too often act as lobbies for
the interests of the monopolies before the budget and the public, rather than instruments of
supervising them.
Consumer goods market. The consumer market has become quite competitive, mainly
due to large amounts of imported goods. This prompts the need to study the issue to what
extent the increase of import duties contributes to the monopolization of the consumer
market, an issue that is of direct relevance to decision-making in the anti-monopoly sphere
and in foreign trade.
A distinct problem that calls for a preliminary study is the market policy of retail
networks. Their prices are not going down despite the prerequisites for competitive behavior,
which would seem to suggest the presence of a conspiracy or the existence of a single
monopoly boss. To make decisions in this area it is necessary to find out whether the
behavior of the owners of retail networks reflects a growing monopoly trend or some other
processes.
4.    Industrial Policy, Accumulation and Investments.
Economic Growth
Russia has not yet overcome an investment crisis. The volume of investment continues
to shrink. Centralized expenditure as opposed to the own assets of enterprises still accounts
for a comparatively large share of the sources of financing. The amount of borrowed
financial resources is insignificant. This is true of bank credits and foreign investments as
well as the savings of households. Along with an obvious structural shift of investment
toward the services sphere there remain sectors which have been virtually untouched by
market transformations -- the Military-industrial Complex and agriculture.
Main types and sources of accumulation. In view of the fact that less than half of the
total volume of depreciation deductions goes into investments it is necessary to determine



5
what the state can do to change the situation. One should draw attention to such possible
measures as the development of more detailed standards of writing-off, account of the
changes in the cost of certain types of assets and their regular re-evaluation, and strict control
of the use of depreciation deductions.
The profits of enterprises as a source of financing cannot be increased through direct
government intervention. Even so, two specific questions require analysis: a) to what extent
a cut of profit tax can enlarge the accumulation fund given poor tax collection and a lack of
inclination to invest; b) what can be the impact, in terms of giving a greater role to profit
in financing, of the creation of German-type long-term pension funds whose assets are used
by companies as borrowed capital and are included in the liabilities of the balance sheet.
Extending the range of financing channels. Analysis must focus, first, on finding out
to what extent the removal from circulation of quasi-money and surrogate money used only
for current transaction settlements (treasury bonds and tax exemptions, growing mass of bills
of exchange issued against government guarantees) will increase real money supply; and
second, how a reduction of the budget deficit will affect the growth of accumulations.
Conditions for accumulation. It would be useful to conduct an empirical study to
determine to what extent accumulation is stimulated by the desire to invest as a result of
economic stability and by the development of the legal mechanisms of reform. The real
condition for growing investments may be a cut of the real interest rate and reduction of the
share of government borrowing which creates a 'displacement effect' in the credit market.
The question of the impact of the state on resumption of economic growth through a full-
scale industrial policy and revision of the basic approach to privatization calls for serious
analysis.
Possibilities of economic growth. The main factors of economic growth should be
monitored. The impact of industrial policy on the development of individual sectors
(industry, agriculture, the services). This must involve an analysis of the investment climate
to see how favorable conditions for investment can be created. A separate area of analysis
must be devoted to competition in high-technology markets and the possible role of the state.
5.    Agrarian and Land Policy
In terms of the main economic indicators (production volume, effectiveness of the use
of production inputs) the situation in the agrarian sector continues to worsen. Agriculture and
food production are ill-equipped for operating in a market environment. The government has
yet to develop a coherent and realistic conception of reform in agriculture. Clearly, the state
has limited resources to support producers and end users of agricultural produce. The priority
government decisions must aim at effective use of available resources, stimulating and
supporting private farming.
Prospects for the development of the agrarian sector. The first issue that needs
investigation is to what extent the incentives for agricultural production have been suppressed
and what is the role of subsidies, especially easy-term subsidies of agricultural enterprises.
It is important to determine the scale of regional dispersion and the role of subsidies in



6
bringing down the producers' prices. An empirical study of the possible consequences of
government price subsidies for the correlation of prices, incomes and trade mark-ups in the
agrarian sector could be the next stage in the study. The possible use of mortgage transaction
mechanisms must also be assessed.
Change in the organization of agricultural production. Thle Nizhny Novgorod and
Oryol models are examples of such change. An adequate legal framework has been created
in Russia for large-scale reform and rehabilitation of agri-businesses. Work in this direction
must get political and organizational support at the federal level. The main goal is to provide
organizational and legal basis for an agricultural land market.
An analysis and broad public discussion are needed of the possible structural policy
in the agro-industrial complex comprising demonopolization of individual sectors,
encouragement of small and medium production and trade firms in rural areas, including
credit, marketing and other forms of cooperatives.
Decision-making must be based on the study of the activities of privatized agricultural
firms in terms of the current and future competition and opportunities for foreign investment.
In this context, the relationship between competition and local monopoly, mark-ups and costs
of agricultural produce processing must be studied.
The Russian model of agrarian development and international experierce. lf decisions
on the support of private enterprise in the agrarian sector are to be valid, they must be based
on the study of international data on the size of agricultural enterprises and their effectiveness
and different forms of agricultural production entities. In the light of world practice the
question of token and real privatization, the possibility of legally withdrawing from collective
farms with the means of production that enable new private agriculture to perform well in
a market economy merits a special study.
6.    Reform of Enterprises, Corporate IMIanagement. Restructuring of Production
The extremely low pace of production restructuring is the main obstacle to
modernization of the sectoral structure of the economy and restoration of investments. As a
result of privatization, real power in the enterprises belongs to the former managers who are
as a rule unable to respond adequately to the tough requirements of the market. The former
organizational structures, methods of production, financial and business activities have
survived. Marketing and financial management is still a major weakness. Advances in
Russian industry depend on overcoming the shortage of investment resources and the
emergence of new channels for the spread of managerial skills.
Reform of enterprises and government policy. The main subject of analysis is the
behavior of enterprises in the post-reform period. One of the main problems arising in the
course of the study is determining whether restructuring of enterprises has made them more
effective. The question of the adaptation of enterprises to a new market situation (prices,
competition, pressure of import, the need to use stock market instruments) needs to be
considered. Another area is the methods by which the state influences the process of
enterprise reform. It is necessary to study the possible result of the post-privatization



7
restructuring including the adoption of new standards of accounting and reporting,
maintenance of an independence register of shareholders and clear delimitation of
responsibilities of owners and managers.
Property, supervision and management of enterprises. The state has proved unable
to manage its blocks of shares in enterprises. This prompts an all-sided investigation into how
the state, first, can contribute to the transfer of production assets to such owners as are
capable of ensuring major investments and effective management: and second, to provide the
owners of enterprises with real access to their control and management. The next important
issue that calls for analysis and prompt and sound decisions is what to do with the Russian
industrial "monsters' (the Integrated Power Grid of Russia, or RAO EEC, Rostelecom,
Mosenergo and others). A study is needed of the consequences of the choice of this or that
form of managing the government's share (on the one hand, retention of the assets by the
state or transfer thereof to the regional authorities which would perpetuate the status quo and,
on the other hand, transfer in trust to banks or sale through investment tenders). Note should
be made of the possible temptation to meet budgetary needs through the sale of government
shares which would discourage the appearance of real strategic investors.
Bankruptcv of inisolvent enterprises. The practice of bankruptcy is a key mechanism
for the redistribution of assets in favor of efficient owners and restructuring of production.
In analyzing the problem it should be borne in mind that technically the majority of Russian
enterprises are virtual bankrupts. The study must evaluate to what extent large-scale
application of bankruptcy procedures is held back by the flaws in the existing legislation,
reluctance of creditors to initiate law suits, resistance to the actions of the Federal Directorate
for Insolvency on the part of enterprise managers and local authorities, the weakness of
arbitration courts and enforcement of their decisions. Change hinges on the effectiveness of
measures with regard to insolvent enterprises in terms of their impact on the quality of
production management. The emphasis in the development of decisions must be on two
aspects: a) identifying and removing the main barriers in the way of the application of
bankruptcy procedures: b) determining the methods of management of potential bankrupts
irrespective of the mechanism of bankruptcy.
Policy Paper. Managing Government Shares in Industrial Enterprises: Russian Practice
and World Experience
7.     Financial System. Financial Inistitutions and Miarkets
The state of the Russian financial system does not lend itself to a definite assessment.
The biggest advances have been made in the banking system which, however, experienced
a major crisis in 1995 and is now poised for a structural transformation because many banks
have gone bankrupt. Other financial institutions are far less developed. The stock market is
dominated by government securities which are the most reliable and profitable. But the
potential of that segment of the market has largely been exhausted while the corporate
securities market has low liquidity and is hardly developing at all. An inadequate
infrastructure is a brake on expansion of the stock market.



8
Banks and thlefinancing of industry. Two interconnected problems stand out which
require profound examination. The first is the evaluation of the prospects of the banking
system itself. The likely consequences should be assessed of such measures as: a) providing
a group of leading (spearhead) banks with additional powers accompanied by special
supervision of their activities; b) the identification of hopeless banks where the interests of
clients and private investors must be protected; c) the barriers in the way of the creation of
new banks which are proliferating in excess of the requirements of the economy by setting
higher authorized capital standards.
The second problem is the participation of banks in the financing of enterprises. A
practical study is in order of the prospects and consequences, first, of granting long-term
bank credits to "inefficient" enterprises (government-owned, defense-related); secondly,
government support of enterprises which cannot be liquidated for strategic reasons and which
have been affected by bank bankruptcies.
Non-banking financial institutions. One of the key problems in this area is
macroeconomic evaluation of the price and time period of transition to a new type of
financial institution. The decisions taken must proceed from an analysis to determine the
current and future economic need for pension funds and insurance companies and in what
shape these institutions should exist in Russia and how they can be strengthened. With
respect to investment funds it is necessary to determine whether they are capable of
performing their main task of attracting large amounts of the population's money. An
alternative should also be studied of establishing long-term financing funds of banks in order
to mobilize the assets of households. A separate question that requires study is whether the
Russian economy needs a large number of investment funds and whether solid foreign
partners can ensure their survival.
Prospects of the stock market. In the first place a broad discussion is necessary of the
prospects of the formation in Russia of a developed and stable stock market using modern
instruments in which the interests of all the market participants are legally secured. Along
with such an assessment an analysis is needed of the mechanisms which could make it
possible to strengthen and protect the national stock market institutions. The question should
be answered to what extent the solution of this problem can be advanced by the development
of stock and over-the-counter trading in securities and the creation of a single centralized
settlement and depositary system. Civilized modes of existence of national producers based
on the protection of the rights of shareholders must also be studied.
Borrowed capital niarket. Most projects at present are financed either by the
enterprises' own capital, by the government budget or EBRD loans. The main challenge in
making decisions in this area is to see how the capital market can be "lengthened", and how
investor confidence can be increased. It is necessary to assess: a) the role of state guarantees
in such matters as stability of taxes and tariffs and terms of project crediting; b) the use of
the possibilities of the Savings Bank (Sberbank) which commands considerable confidence.
The problem of risks in the process of investments and savings must be examined. In making
decisions it should be borne in mind that the confidence of individual and institutional
investors depends on how reliable the market instruments are and how the risks are shared
in practice.



9
Policy Paper. The Role of the Banking System in the Restructuring of the Russian
Industry
8.    Incomes, Employment, Poverty
The reform of the social sphere is proceeding very slowly exacting a heavy
macroeconomic, political and social cost, Real per capita incomes fell by 40 percent
compared with 1991, and the differentiation of incomes between different social strata has
increased dramatically. Among those hardest hit by the fall of real incomes are families
with children in whlich one or both working members are employed in the budget-supported
sphere or in crisis-ridden sectors of production, the families of unemployed people, as well
as pensioners. The share of the population with incomes below the official "poverty line' has
never been below 25 percent recently. Unemployment is growing steadily, both in the overt
and hidden forms. In some regions of Russia unemployment has already reached a critical
point.
Reform of the pension system. To solve this problem it is necessary to know how a
transition from the distributive to the accumulative pension system can improve the position
of pensioners, ensure regular payment of pensions, guarantee that the size of a pension
reflects the labor record and is linked to the price index. In the course of the investigation
it is necessary to clearly determine what market instruments are the best for a viable pension
system.
Revision of the system of social support. The main task is to create the necessary
conditions for targeted assistance to the vulnerable social strata. A close study is needed of
the existing range of money allowances, privileges and subsidies established under federal
legislation. Such a review would determine, first, to what extent ineffective schemes that
have no specific addressee should be curtailed or abolished altogether; secondly, what
allowances and benefits should be made available only on condition of compliance with clear-
cut criteria (the number of children or dependents in a family, the size of income).
Reform of the wage system in the budgetary sphere. Decisions in this area must
proceed from an analysis of the consequences of a strengthened financial base of the budgets
of the subjects (members) of the Federation through the redistribution of tax proceeds in
favor of the regions and targeted transfers from the federal budget; the granting of
discretionary rights to the regions to determine the levels of wages and salaries in the budget-
supported sphere with the Center determining only the minimum wage. A special study must
be made of the interconnection between all the minimum money allowances regulated at the
federal level and the minimum living standards.
Policy note. System of minimum social guarantees in tihe income sphere.
9.    Foreign Trade, Payment Balance. Movement of Capital and Foreign Debt
A very controversial situation has developed in Russia's foreign trade. The continuous
payment balance surplus in current transactions indicates that accumulation exceeds domestic



10
investment in the Russian economy. The lack of positive changes in the aggregate domestic
demand and supply has a negative impact on the structure of foreign trade: the positive
balance is achieved almost totally through the export of fuel and raw materials. The policy
with regard to foreign loans aims at reducing borrowing switching to easy-term loans.
However, payments to service Russia's foreign debt continue to grow. The flight of capital
from Russia is still accompanied by an extremely small inflow of foreign investment.
Trade and payment balance. Factors affecting trade balance against the backdrop of
current decline and expected economic growth. A thorough analysis of how structural
adaptation affects exports and imports is needed. Different sectors have different effects on
trade balance. An assessment of changes in the structure of payment balance (an account of
current transactions, an account of transactions involving capital and financial instruments).
Trade policy and national interests. A serious problem that requires a close scrutiny
and balanced political decisions is the policy aimed at protecting Russian manufacturers from
imports, primarily in the automobile, pharmaceutical and food industries, where domestic
demand has been met largely due to imports. Protectionism, while causing prices to soar,
fails to stimulate supply of competitive domestic goods. In this regard, it is necessary to
conduct an empirical study of the effects of the development of import substituting industries
in Russia, including through foreign investment.
Another problem facing Russia's trade policy concerns exports* and is closely
interconnected with the tax system. The abolition of oil export tariffs has removed obstacles
to oil exports as the main source of currency revenues. However, it is important to find out
whether the excise tax on oil extraction, introduced in a bid to make up for the lack of
budget revenues, can lead to a decrease in oil extraction. It is also necessary to consider how
possible measures to improve the collection of taxes and ensure their timely transfer from
regions to the center may affect export,
Outflow of capital and ways to stop it. A return of capital taken out of the country
could become a significant source of investment resources. While making decisions in this
area it is necessary to study various options, such as an amnesty for all capital taken out of
the country, including "dirty' money, and a number of benefits for repatriated capital, except
'dirty' money. In working out measures to stop the "flight" of capital, it is necessary to try
to assess how efficiently authorized banks act as currency control agents and what effects the
solidary responsibility of banks for a failure to return currency may have, including as a
result of the export of currency earning goods.
Competitiveness in Russia as a recipient of capital. Available assessments indicate that
foreign investment cannot be considered at this point as a considerable potential source of
accumulation on the national scale because of the flaws in the country's legal system and
fierce competition on foreign capital markets. It would be expedient, therefore, to study the
role of foreign investment at the level of individual regions or industries, including by taking
into account the final decision on the procedure for using the law "On Production Sharing
Agreements."
The government is facing the need to create conditions that would allow Russia to
enter competition for markets and international investment. To this end, radical changes in



I !
the tax system should be accompanied by a discussion on the effects of attempts to revise the
law on foreign investment, stop the practice of granting individual benefits to investors and
introduce a system of state and private investment insurance.
10.   Methods and Instruments of Economic and Statistical Analysis
A market economy requires a developed system of statistics covering all key economic
processes. In the course of its transition to market relations, Russia has confronted the need
to create a statistical base that would reflect the new economic conditions. The American
system of national financial accounts could provide one of the most vivid examples for
Russia. The bureau of economic analysis could take an active part in the development of such
a system in Russia.
The current system of statistics in Russia is generally characterized by poor quality.
In assessing Russia's methods of statistics, it is necessary to take into account, in addition
to the transitional nature of the economy, such specific factors as unfinished privatization,
the non-payment crisis, partial dollarization of payments, hidden types of debts of enterprises
and banks, the specific nature of the population's savings and the existence of a large-scale
shadow economy. As Russia proceeds with the privatization of enterprises and the creation
of an efficient financial system and develops more intricate economic ties, the use of national
financial accounts will be needed as a basis for a macroeconomic analysis and forecasts.
Prospects for the development of a system of sratistics. To study and reliably forecast
economic development one needs information about the sources, amount and forms of savings
of the population, non-financial enterprises, the financial sector and the government and data
on foreign economic payments. An analysis of the dynamics of revenues, assets and liabilities
of various economic agents and intersectoral flows of capital is also necessary to study the
key problems facing the Russian economy:
*     creation of a tax base in a long-term perspective;
*      formation of savings of enterprises and the population;
*     accumulation of financial means and their transformation into investment;
*      forecasts of interest rates and securities quotations; and
*      the "flight" of capital.
It is also necessary to take into account the real difficulties that one comes across
during the collectiun and processing of statistical data in the transition period. These
difficulties are particularly evident when one tries to draw a watershed among various sectors
of the economy. It would be expedient to find out the legitimacy of an approach that divides
the public sector into federal and regional levels. The non-financial sector includes public and
private enterprises; the financial sector banking and other financial institutions. Small
businesses are part of the structure of the population's assets. It is also necessary to discuss
ways of reflecting inflationary effects and money surrogates in statistics.



12
The bureau of economic analysis could launch a pilot project to study the flow of
capital in the Russian economy. Such a project could determine sectors and principal market
instruments, make a primary assessment of the structure of the economy and ai.nual flows
in various sectors. The project could be carried out by the statistics group of the bureau of
economic analysis in conjunction with Central Bank and Goskomstat representatives in the
bureau.



Supplement
LIST OF POLICY PAPERS TO BE PREPARED IN YEAR ONE
1.    Macroeconomic, Monetary and Credit Policy
Scenarios of macroeconomic policy in the mid-term perspective
Being investigated is one of the most pressing current problems -- the issuance of
money surrogates that do not lend themselves to government control and whose total volume
has substantially exceeded the amount of money in circulation. Analysis of the negative
consequences of the dissemination of surrogates in terms of the effectiveness of
macroeconomic policy. Study of conditions capable of preventing a further issuance of
surrogates. Study of mid-term scenarios of the development of the economy which are largely
determined by the restructuring and partial monetization of accumulated money surrogates.
Prospects of the dc-dollarization of the Russian economy are also assessed. This theme
presupposes a study and adaptation of international experience for the purpose of perfecting
models of macroeconomic forecasting.
Instruments of macroeconomic policy
The study centers on methods of transition from macrostabilization to economic
growth and growth of investments. Substantiation of the choice of concept of economic
policy: to be based on smoothing out the cycles of economic activity or on high rates of
economic growth  in  the  long-term, perspective. Study of alternative variants  of
macroeconomic policy that express themselves in a substantial level of taxation, or, on the
contrary, of borrowing; the most likely impact of these variants on economic growth. An
analysis of monetary policy will make it possible to study the main instruments from the
viewpoint of flexibility and effectiveness when dampening the consequences of possible
shocks in the monetary system. Such issues as the policv of debt-servicing, pattern of
spending and the extensive use of tax exemptions are studied in the context of budget policy.
2.    Tax and Budget Policy. Regional Transfers. FLnancing of the Social Sphere.
Diagnosing the tax crisis and the principles of tax reform in the aspect of economic
growth
The low coilectibility of taxes requires, first of all, an analysis of both the objective
and subjective causes of this situation. It is necessary to study the structure of current tax
payments on the basis of information provided by the State Tax Service, the Federal
Treasury and the State Customs Committee. Evaluation of the consequences of changes in
the tax legislation that occurred in the course of the financial year. Elaboration of a model
to forecast tax revenue. The study is based on the existing macroeconomic model of assessing
taxes with a subsequent transition to a more advanced multi-sectoral model. Analysis of
quantitative evaluations of changes in tax legislation, in particular, the corresponding articles



2
of the Tax Code. International experience and possibilities of perfecting the Russian tax
system.
3.    Support for Entrepreneurship. Anti-Monopoly Policy, Natural Monopolies
Barriers to access and transactional costs. (Ensuring conditionsforfair competition)
Analysis of existing barriers in Russia to the entry of a sector by new enterprises. The
extent to which remaining giant enterprises can economize on the scale of production. Is it
really so that in Russia we are observing a classic variant of negative saving on scale --
growth of long-term average costs as output increases because of the high level of
management expenses. Evaluation of the forming of vertically integrated oil companies from
the viewpoint of mergers that create an obstacle to entry into the sector. Methods of control
over key types of raw materials and state-of-the-art technologies. Analysis of ensuring
conditions for fair competition: down-sizing enterprises and support for small businesses.
Organized markets as a means of making information available and reducing transactional
costs as transactions are performed and new enterprises set up.
4.    Industrial Policy, Savings and Investments. Economic Growth
Volume and sources of national accumulation
Analysis of the consequences for the process of accumulation resultant of the
transformation of the structure of ownership in the course of transition to the market. A
special study is made of the problem of interconnection of the volume and sources of
accumulation with, firstly, the development of various sectors of the economy and, secondly,
the performance of enterprises in the post-privatization period. Summing up of international
experience from the viewpoint of traditional sources of accumulation. Analysis of potential
sources of accumulation in the Russian economy -- amortization, profits of enterprises and
savings of the population. Study of the question of how to increase the share of amortization
payments in the overall volume of accumulation. In the course of the study it is necessary
to determine the extent to which preconditions for raising the norm and real volume of the
population's savings can be utilized.
6.    Reform of Enterprises, Corporative Management. Restructuring of Production
Management of state enterprises and state property
Analysis of the problem of managing state enterprises. This requires defining
strategically important sectors in terms of national interests. Concept of the system of
managing enterprises in strategic sectors. Study of the question of the technique of privatizing
such enterprises on the basis of a specially elaborated scheme.
Study of the problem of managing state property connected with the management of
government-owned packages of shares. Criteria for selecting enterprises when a part of their



3
shares are to remain in the hands of government bodies. This includes, in particular, the
shares of strategic enterprises since this ensures the economic interests of the state. A special
mechanism should be created to manage the packages of such shares, but this requires an
additional investigation. Analysis of the question of the efficacy of the existing and
alternative ways of selling government-owned shares.
7.    Financial System. Financial Institutes and Markets
Relative size and structure of the financial system
Diagnosis of the current state of the system, correlation of assets in different
segments. The place and role of the banking sector. Ratio of bank assets to GDP. Assessment
of the economy's requirements in the development of new financial institutes -- pension and
insurance companies, investment funds. Relation of M-2 to the total volume of money
supply. Analysis of the problem of adequacy of capital to the economy's requirements. Study
of the financial system from the viewpoint of distributing the mobilized resources with the
aim of ensuring economic growth. Assessment of the possibilities of financial institutes to
solve the task of attracting money of the population. One of the key aspects of the study --
how to utilize the population's savings to finance the economy.
8.    Incomes, Employment, Poverty
Poverty and social aid programs
Concept and overall scale of poverty in Russia. Dynamics of poverty, the share of the
poor among the entire Russian population. Study of the interconnection of poverty and the
sharp differentiation of the population's incomes. Forms of manifestation of relative and
absolute poverty in Russia. Level of poverty from the viewpoint of regional dispersion.
Analysis of the question of how long a poor person remains poor in Russia. 'Invisible" poor,
poverty and unemployment. The extent to which poverty influences the increase in the
number of refugees. Directions of the reform of social security. Criteria of identifying the
main recipients of assistance. Evaluation of psychological risk connected with the
implementation of aid programs.
9.    Foreign Trade, Balance of Payrnents. Movement of Capital and External Debt
Russia's comparative advantages on the world comrnodity mark-ets
Study of the question to what extent and in what areas Russia's comparative
advantages are due to specialization. In particular, should rich natural resources, fertile lands,
comparatively cheap labor in the absence of state-of-the-art technologies be regarded as the
basis for specialization in the output of raw-material commodities and agricultural produce.
Analysis of real production cost in the fuel and energy sector from the viewpoint of ensuring
Russia's comparative advantages. Can a deepening of specialization within a sector help
Russia's consolidation on the markets of hi-tech products (space, aviation and laser
hardware). Measures needed to give Russia access to new foreign markets.



4
10.   Methods and Instruments of Economic and Statistical Analysis
Methodology and main directions in thle development of macroeconomic statistics
in Russia
Analysis of financial flows between sectors of the economy as a basis for working out
decisions in the area of macroeconomic policy. Assessment of changes in the financial assets
and liabilities of various agents of the economy from the standpoint of choice of the most
effective decisions. The system of national accounts (SNA), that is forming in Russia, is the
key instrument for analyzing macroeconomic indicators. One of the main tasks confronting
Russian statistics is to do away with the internal contradictions between indicators. In this
connection it is important to determine the extent to which the forming of SNA influences
the completion of work to regularly draw up inter-sectoral balances, the transition to the
working out of the financial account and the account of the financial sector. The solution of
this task requires special efforts to determine and integrate the necessary data that is now in
the possession of diverse agencies (Central Bank of the Russian Federation, Ministry of
Finance, State Committee for Statistics).



APPENDIX 12
OUTPUrT TABLE
OUTPUT                                 SOURCEOF                WHO WILL              NATURE OF
ASSIGNMENT             CARRY 0UT            ASSIGNMENT
POLICY STUDIES                        I
Monthly indicators of economic          Statutory tasl         Bureau team           eguJsar
performnnce
Annual report on the state of the economy  Statutory task      Bureau team          Regular
Medium-term policy studies on cross     Client reouested       Bureau team with or   Planned as well as
sectonl topics                          Bumau initiated        without extemnal     one-off
participauion
Short-term policy notes                 Client requested       Team or individuais,  Pbanned as well as
Buneau uniuated        internak or extemal    one-off
Exteral contribution
EXTERNAL OUTREACH PROGRAM                 _
Datbase on economic policy trenuis      Stautory ask           Bureau               Continuous
Conferences. seminars, symposia on      Client requested        Bureau team with or   Planned as well as
economic policies                       Bureau initiated        without exteral     one-off
participation
Exchange progrms                        Statutory task          Bureau team with or   Planned as well as
without extemral    one-off
participauson
Extemai sponsorship program             Sta     task          |a      a Buroau       Continuous
Training programs                       Client rmquested        Bureau team with or   Planned as well as
Bureau initiaud        without exteral      one-off
partcivation
System of coordination of policy analyses:    Statutory task    Bureau team with or   Continuous
development and impkementauon                                   without extetnal
participation
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL
ACCOUNTS
Financing equipment                      Statutory task          Bumau in             Planned
coopSeation with
GOSKOMSTAT
Organudng training                       Statutory tasl;         Buteu m              Pinned
eoopemuion with
GOSKOMSTAT
Phnning and impiementation of techntcal a Stautory task          Burau in             Planned
| assmetsatn                                                  coopertion with
assistance                                                       GOSKOMSTAT



BUREAU  OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                         Operations Manual 3-3,
Attachment 1
BASIC FLOWCHART OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
WHAT                            WHO                                          HOW
Requests for studies, analyses or reports may come
from the users in various forms, for instance as a letter
stating a problem or asking a question, as detailed
WORK REQUEST  ~    ~     ~    UERSTerms of Reference, and so on. The BEA professional
WORK REQUEST                 ~~~~CLIENTS,            staff can also submit a study propositions for
BEA INITIATIVE                         E STAF                  consideration. All external requests for work to be done
must come to BEA through Director General (DG).
where they are logged-in and allocated a number and
title.
Director General will carry out the first as well as the final
PROJECT REQUEST                       DIETRreview of every project (study etc .... ), DG will study the
REVIEW                         GENERAL                 request. allocate it a priority, outline the overall approach to
REVIEW  GENERAL                the project execution, and assign the project to the Deputy
Director General for execution.
, ",                                                Deputy Director General will produce a brief Project Definition,
which will include (1) Project background (2) Problem
DEPUTY                 framework, (3) Assessment of acceptability conditions. (4)
PROJECT                         DIRECTOR                Overall approach and a recommendation to the Director
DEFINITION               ,                               General. If the project is accepted by BEA. then the next step
GENERL    /             follows:(6) Appointment of the Project Manager, that is a
person specifically responsible for the execution of the project
(study, report, analysis, recommendation, etc..)
The Project Manager (in most cases a Group Manager) will
develop a detailed project outline, which will include the
PROJECT  OUTLINE                      PROAEC                  (1)project background (2) problems to be addressed,
(3) project strategy, (4) project organisation (5) project
output, (6) draft project plan, (7) project schedule and
budget and (8) resource request.
The appointed Project Manager will present the project plan.
APPROVED                       /        DEPUTY                 schedule, budget and resource request to the Project Outline
PROJECT OUTLINE                        DIRECTOR                Meeting, chaired by the DDG with all Group managers
(AND PLAN)                             GENERAL                 present. At this meeting the need for resources lespecially
people) will be discussed and specific assignment of
individuals and other resources agreed upon and incorporated
into the Project Baseline Plan.
PROJECT                                                 Project manager will send regular reports in accordance
PROGRESS                          PROJECT          ;     with the provisions of BEA Operations Manual to the Deputy
REPORTS                 <       MANAGER                 Director General stating progress made and problems
encountered and anticipated. Deputy DG will in turn send a
report on progress of all projects to the DR.
.IIIL Z                                            The first version of the output ( a study, analysis, etc ... ) will
PROJECT                                                 be reviewed and evaluated by a Project Review Committee
EVALUJATION               ,  PROJECT REVIEW   '           consisting of external and internal experts, whose job will
REVIEW A                      COMMITTEE                be to discover and discuss any weakness in the presented
REVIEW                        output, as far as subject matter, supponing evidence,
inferences. methodology, presentation etc.. are concerned.
The output will be revised accordingly
PROJECT                         DIRECTOR                All the work comes in through the DG and all the output
COMPLETION                 t      GENERAL                  leaves through DG who wili sign the output/report and
REPORT (OUTPUT)                                              organize delivery to the user/requestor.
3-3at1c



APPENDIX 13
EXTERNAL OUTREACH PROGRAM
l.    The Bank and BEA discussed the following model for the External Outreach program, which
would be modeled on KDI's International Development Exchange Program, which has been critical to
KDI's increasingly important role in promoting international economic cooperation. The purpose of
the External Outreach Program will be to further cooperation within Russia and internationally on
economic policy issues in the BEA's work program. The Scientific Secretary will lead this effort, and
he/she will be responsible for developing relations and ensuring coordination with various external
bodies in order to meet the following objectives:
(i)    Exchange Ideas/Track Developments in Economic Policy. Track developments in the
field of economics in other countries and amongst international financial institutions.
Develop a database on scholars specializing in certain topics.
(ii)    Organize Fora for Discussing Economic Policy Issues. Organize-either singularly or
jointly with other bodies-policy fora, seminars, and workshops to facilitate the
exchange of ideas with other institutions, to draw on the experience of other countries,
and to gain external perspectives on Russia's economic problems. The BEA's main
meeting will be an Annual Conference, which will be convened to review the state of
the Russian economy, and to exchange prospects for the next year.
(iii)   Develop and Facilitate Exchange Programs. Establish relations and maintain close
links with individual scholars, academic institutions, policy think tanks, and research
institutes in other countries, and with international financial organizations.
Exchange of scholars.
Secondment to the World Bank, IMF, OECD, FAO, etc.
(iv)   Develop Programs for External Sponsorship. Contact bilateral donor agencies,
foundations, and professional associations, and develop relations with these potential
sponsors of BEA's programs.
(v)    Coordinate with Russian Research Institutes.
*     Develop a social and economic information network which could be accessed
by other research institutes.
*     Conduct joint research and seminars.
*     Contract out selected projects to highly qualified institutes.
*     Identify talented economists in Russia.
(vi)   Facilitate the Training of BEA Staff and Ministry Abroad. Fellowships may be financed
under the project so that up to 20 BEA staff and 20 officials may have access to
training programs on economic policy both in Russia and abroad.






APPENDIX 14
EVALUATION POLICY
BEA Operations
1.    Measurement of the efficiency and effectiveness of Bureau operations will be required for: (i)
accountability to BEA directors and sponsors and (ii) improvement in BEA policies, procedures and
capacities.
2.     The Operations Manual details the procedures for an annual assessment to be performed by the
Bureau for independent review by the Academic Council or a Committee of the Board of Trustees (such
as an audit committee). The Council or Committee would submit the report and its comments to the
Bank and to the Boards of Directors and Trustess for review during the latter's annual meeting.
3.     The report will measure and assess:
a.     adherence to BEA budgetary and financial policies, including local cost contributions
(includes sources and uses of funds)
b.     efficiency and effectiveness of assignment planning (process by which teams are
assembled to complete a given policy study or report)
c.     qualifications and selection process of staff, consultants and ministerial secondments
d.    implementation of annual training plan for BEA and ministerial staff; and
e.     external communications (frequency and nature of contact with Russian and international
organizations).
4.     Data sources would include: (a) aggregated annual project results; (b) BEA budget outlays; (c)
third-party evaluations, including from training institutions.
Impact of Policy Studies
5.     Annually, the Academic Council will undertake an internal review of BEA outputs that will be
provided to the Board of Trustees and the Bank. The intention would be to evaluate: (i) the relevance
of the study's objectives to priority requirements in the national economic agenda; (ii) the quality of the
analysis, particularly in the use and interpretation of data and the realism (in terms of implementation)
of the policy options proposed; and (iii) the impact, if any, on the course of the national policy debate.
Impact evaluations of this nature are difficult to measure quantitatively and must rely on multiple
reviewers whose analyses can be compared. To assist the Bureau in achieving its impact objectives, the
Bank would finance an independent evaluation of BEA outputs every two years as part of Bank
supervision activities.






APPENDIX 15
TOR'S FOR TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT
Terms of Reference for consulting services.
Contract No: TA 16
SUBJECT:   Analysis of training needs for economic policy studies
1.     Statement of the problem
L1.1   Background information
The Russian Government jointly with the World Bank support established "Bureau of
Economic Analysis" (further BEA or Bureau) to provide policy analysis and advice to
the Prime Minister and his Deputies, to the Government Apparat and core economic
ministries. The Bureau is set up as an autonomous foundation, with its own Board of
Trustees, Board of Directors and Academic Council. The Bureau 's work program
should include studies in accordance with the priorities as seen by the clients /users.
The Bureau will also carry out independent research on the progress of Russian
economic reform.
1.2.   Description of the problem
While policv analyses are crucial for the Russian government to carry out the transition
towards the market economy speedily and effectively. there is only a limited number of
economists qualified to do so. On the one hand, there is a surplus of economists familiar
with the centrally planned economv, on the other hand those qualified to provide policy
analyses and recommendations for transition economy are in short supply. It is therefore
necessary to provide training to economists to fullv understand the problems of
transformation as to carry out policy analyses and develop policy recommendations in
the areas of their specializations. To do training effectively, first a proper analysis of
training needs has to be done (Phase I.) And then training programs and svstems
developed (Phase II.). These Terms of Reference cover Phase I.
2.     Objectives.
2.1.   General objective.
The general objective is to increase policy analysis capacitv in Russia.



TOR TA-16
Page 2
2.2.   Speciflc objectives.
The specific objective is to carry out an analysis of training needs that would serve as a basis for:
-      designing and implementation of training programs
-      in the defined subjects
-      for the staff of the Bureau and policy analysts in the government and other relevant
entities.
3.     Scope of work.
3.1.   Coverage.
The recipients of training will be the economists, researchers and economic decision-makers
-      currentlv w-orking in the government sector,
-      in the Bureau ( including prospective candidates), and
-      institutions attached to the government sector,
The recipients are expected to have:
-      higher university degree,
-      knowledge of a foreign language, and
-      market economy orientation.
The analysis will concern the subjects defined belov.w. These are:
I.     Macroeconomic policy in the medium term
2.     Tax policv and taxation reform principles
3z.    Russia comparative advantage on world markets.
4.     Functioning of the financial sector
5.     Enterprise reform and restructuring
6.     Social policv issues, especially employment, pensions and poverty
7.     Support of entrepreneurship, especially barriers to entry
8.     Agrarian policy
3.2.   Overall approach and strategy.
The overall approach will consist of:
i.     survev of needs for economic policy analysis in the stated subjects in the government



TOR TA-16
Page 3
apparatus and policy analysis establishments on the one hand and
ii.    survey  of available resources on the other, in terms of numbers of the
analysts/researchers and their capabilities ( e.g. knowledge, skills, attitudes).
iii.    analysis of findings and statement of needs (quantitative and qualitative) that can be
filled by training.
iv.    outline of main features of a comprehensive training program, on both policy subject
areas and policy analysis methodology.
Although the analysis will be based on a sample of organizations and individuals, it should not
be individualized, but carried out on the generic level.
3.3.   Main tasks.
The consultant will present in his proposal a detailed plan of action for the assignment together
with the resources needed. A present the following main tasks are envisaged:
I .   Develop a list of entities that are required to analyse aspects of economic policies and
submit policy recommendations in the areas stated in item 3.1. Coverage.
2.     Analyse the resources available for producing the policy analyses and recommendations
in both qualitative and quantitative terms.
Develop conclusions on the quantitative and qualitative training needs, including but not
limited to the statement of recruitment needs and extensive training, retention and
retraining, terminations and replacements, knowledge needed, skills necessary to
develop, attitudes changed etc. The needs will cover not only policy subjects, but also
methodological issues.
4.     Description of training system that would satisfy the training needs. Such a system
should contain a modular in-country training programs, study tours to foreign countries,
methodology training programs, subject training, group as individual training programs,
and so on.
Indicate the most effective methods and forms these training programs could be
organized, including training methodology.
6.     Proposed plan, schedule and budget for sampled researchers/analysts' training.
3.4.   Implementation arrangements.
The consultant will work  in the offices of the Bureau and use BEA equipment, the data
gathering will be carried out in the premises of the relevant entities.



TOR TA-16
Page 4
The consultant will report to BEA "Assignment Coordinator", who will be appointed by the
Director General of the Bureau at least one week before the contract award.
3.5.   Time constraints.
The assignment should be completed as soon as realistically possible and reasonably practicable.
The consultant will prepare a schedule depicting the activities and time periods for the
assignment to be completed.
4.     Input provided by BEA.
4.1.   Access to sources.
BEA will make arrangements to ensure access of the consultant to the Ministries and
other government policy analysis entities as necessary for the assignment. However, it
is also expected that the consultant will demonstrate a considerable degree of initiative
in establishing and maintaining contacts and collecting data.
4.2.   Information.
BEA will provide all the available information it has in its possession to the consultant
in order to carry out the assignment speedily and efficiently. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the consultant will also show resourcefulness in obtaining the needed data.
5.     Outputs and approvals.
5.1.   Outputts.
The consultant will produce an interim and a final report.
The specific output of the final report will contain a report showing the methodology the
consultant used for his assignment, sources of data, conclusions with a clear statement
of training needs in topical and quantitative terms for the selected group of central
policy makers, and recommendations for training to take place in accordance with the
provisions of article 3.3.
5.2.   Output evaluation.
The output will be evaluated on the following criteria:
A.    Completeness - covering both the govemment, BEA and other relevant
institutions.
B.    Quality of analysis, evidence for conclusions and methodological soundness



TOR TA-16
Page 5
C.     Presentation, especially conciseness and clarity of language.
D.    Substance and practicality of recommendations.
5.3.   Monitoring and reports.
A.    The consultant will agree on workplan with the Bureau and will produce a
monthly progress report related to the workplan.
B.    The Interim  report will be produced when the first conclusions can be
tentatively drawn at the date agreed with the Bureau.
C.    The consultant will produce a final report in both Russian and English within
the period specified in the contract.
D.    The consultant will report immediately to the BEA "Assignment Coordinator"
any problem that could cause delay or any other undesirable consequences in
the execution of the assignment.
5.4.   Approval requirements.
The consultant will need to obtain approval from the Bureau to proceed further at the
following points:
A.    The workplan.
B.    Interim report.
C \OFFIC\WPWINWPDOCSBEkECONhAC1TAI6TOR2.WPO
25 Apni 1997






APPENDIX 16
SUPERVISION PLAN
FY97-14 sw (of which 10 sw on mission; 2 in headquarters review; 2 at Resident Mission)
Mission Dates        Nature of Mission     Required Personnel           sw/ea.         Total
sW
1. May-June 1997     Project Launch Task Manager                 2
Economist                    2
Implementation Specialist    2
Accountant                   1             10
Statistical Advisor          1
Training Specialist          2
FY9840 sw (of which 18 sw on mnission; 4 in headquarters; 8 in EDI; 10 at Resident Mission)
2. October 1997      Supervision           Task Manager                 2
Foundation Specialist        2             8
Economist                    2
Training Specialist          2
3. January 1998      Supervision           Task Manager                 2
Economist                    2             4
4. April 1998        Supervision           Task Manager                 2
Foundation Specialist        2             6
Economist                   2
FY99-32 sw (of which 18 sw on mnission; 4 in headquarters; 10 at Resident Mission)
5. October 1998      Midterm Review        Task Manager                 3
Foundation Specialist        3
Economist                    3             12
Implementation Specialist    3
6. March 1999 Supervision           3 Specialists                2 sw/ea.      6
sw = staff week
Note: Specialists (economist, statistical advisor, procurement specialist) at the Moscow Resident Mission
will handle day-to-day supervision and procurement issues (10 sw equivalent per annum).






SEaTED STATES or ADTTRlCA
rha bo.,,daors, colors. denom,n,T,asT
Tndas o-,--, -1Wo,   Uo',
adpa nfo  ontpa,,a                                                                                                    RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
rhr W-Ild Sr-nt G-vp, ony pvdg-ea l
a nnd elgalsenr n,-o y apneoy or                                                                                REPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS, OKRUGS
ony -ndr.--m,n or  -cp,.-c r
sooh hondarirs
-     NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
- ^  ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
-_,      OBLA5T, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
-ONITED                                                                                                   .-                                                                                                                                86
R DO.'-                                                                                                                                  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES-
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
* InoIaAng TenTbIa sof Ad W'yr AhOT Karnoha  v-CMdrEno andKhaksay                                >>
N O R WAY
r4erHERWANDS                              SWNEADEN L  S                                                                                                                                                                                                                82          _
r --.7     )~
)                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~815
GERMANY                                                                        5-
FINLAND                                                                                           - -                                                                              "1
R I               LeDeRAroN          * usroNlA      T                     .   -;                               .           _             t                  7SESUNI A
PO( 70L A N D       ,          ;A 8                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;9 x_LT
POA      E ;LATH S            21 
49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
34RlA  .                        f'r'M        56                                                                                                                                      /        .. _  o750
I   rkoge      Nvord                   2Brosk 2  TloCEROYO                                          0   hehn                       0Asrkhn                 8Chvsh5.  oskr12  X6  A 76                                                     BrofB  Au
ROMANIA   U K R A I I E                                 49~~ AZA KH SfA
2. NooaTz        8 Pskov                   13 Ivonovoa  23 VIadino,r          25 Belgorod               31  Do8hnstan                  41  Kaolmykia-         49 Kirov                   54 Chenly=binsks          62. Goarny Al8OI       71  Chsoa                 8I Kamcha'ka
3 Korea            9. Lennagrod               14 Koluga    24 Yoraoslovl        26 Ku0rsk                  32 IngushT                        Kh,olmg Tangoh      50. Marry El               5.5 Kor8oa             63 Kenmeraov                  72 Agin Baryate           82 Karyck
4 Kaom             10 ST PeTarbsbrg C8y      15 KasTraoa                        27 IIpCTsk                 33 Kobord,ro-RoIkor           42 Pnnzoa               51 Mordov                  56 Orenburg           64 Noaas,b,rsk             73. Irkotok               83 Khoborovask
S. Murm,onsk                                  16 Moscow'                        28 Tomovho                 34. Krasnodor                  43 Somoaro             52 Niahnry Naoagrad        57 Perm,               65 Onmsk                     74 U,F-Ordyn EArynt        84 Jaewish AO
6 Vologdo                                     17 Moscow CiTy                    29. Voronezh                  35 Adygeya                  44 Saralna                                           58 Kon,i-Parnr,ak  66 Tom,sk                  75 Krosnayorsk            85 Magadon
18 OreI                                                      36 NorTh 05501,0               45. TaoFTasn                                      59 Unnur,              67. Tymen                    76. Evenk                  86 Cookol
19 Ryaoao                                                    37. RasTac                    46 Volgngrod                                       60 Sverdiovsk             68 KhanTy-Mansi           77. Khokos             87 Primnnrski
20 Snmalensk                                                 38 S         TroXropal         47. Ulyonosk                                                                69 Tamnlo-Nennrs          78 TOIT                 88 Sakholn
I I Koliningrod           21 Toer                                                          39 Ka,achaoav-Cherkess                                                                                                        79. Tuvo                   89 Sochoa (Yalsoll
DECEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No.: T       7131   RU
Type:     TAN



