             Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 33587

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (SCL-41850 PPFB-P3090)

                ON A

                LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$22.6 MILLION

               TO THE

        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                FOR

  BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS




           September 1, 2005

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit =

                        FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director    Kristalina Georgieva
               Sector Manager     Asad Alam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Vladimir Drebentsov

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                 BUREAU OF ECON POL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P044200                                                  Project Name: BUREAU OF ECON POL
Team Leader: Vladimir Drebentsov                                     TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BUREAU OF ECON POL                                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-41850; PPFB-P3090
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Analysis of economic growth (P); Economic statistics, modeling and
                            forecasting (P); Debt management and fiscal substainability (S);
                            Macroeconomic management (S); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/11/1996                                     Effective: 10/16/1997                12/18/1997
     Appraisal: 10/18/1996                                         MTR: 06/01/2000                  06/01/2000
      Approval: 06/05/1997                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:      Foundation for Bureau of Economic Analysis

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes J. Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Vladimir Drebentsov                            Marsha McGraw-Olive
ICR Primary Author:             Vladimir Drebentsov; Yelena
                                Dobrolyubova


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The original objective and design of the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Project should be
evaluated taking into account the dynamics of several interlinked factors over the 1996 - 2005 period: (i)
institutional capacity of the federal government to design reform policies; (ii) implementation of reform,
and Russia's economic and social performance; and (iii) the priorities identified for cooperation between the
Russian Federation and the Bank.

In 1996, Russia was still suffering from a prolonged economic decline (close to 40 percent of GDP relative
to 1990) and growing poverty (with 25 - 35 percent of households living in poverty). However, by that
time, the country - with the assistance from the Fund and the Bank - had achieved what then looked as a
significant financial stabilization (later proved to be illusory by the financial meltdown of 1998): monthly
inflation rate had fallen to below 2 percent; productive assets accounting for nearly 70 percent of GDP had
been privatized; annual foreign trade surplus had reached $24 billion; and multi-year rescheduling
agreements with the Paris and London Clubs for $72 billion of Soviet-period external debt had been
negotiated.

These achievements created a window of opportunity to tackle structural imbalances preventing the country
from resumption of sustainable growth. Structural reforms were seen as key for restoring sustainable
development; and design and implementation of these reforms had become both an objective of the Bank
support to the Russian Federation, and a condition for successful implementation of the Bank's portfolio in
Russia. In particular, fragile economic performance was identified as one of the risks for implementation of
1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Another risk flagged in the CAS had directly provided rationale
for designing the BEA project. As the CAS noted, limited government institutional capacity could result in
failure to design sound economic and social policies, and, hence, missing the window of opportunity to
implement structural reforms in Russia. Hence there was an urgent need to strengthen institutional capacity
of the government in designing sound economic policies.

Taking account of the country priorities and constraints, the objective of the Project was to "build
institutional capacity for sound economic analysis in support of market-oriented structural reforms". To
meet this objective, the project had three sub-goals:
a.        to increase the quantity and quality of cross-sectoral economic policy studies for use by
Government;
b.        to establish the BEA outside of Government, but accountable to it, to provide an objective,
economy-wide perspective in assessing economic policy options;
c.        to improve the reliability of the National Accounts as the basis for sound economic analysis."

The objective, though quite broad, clearly responded to apparent gaps in the country's ability to design
reform program on the basis of best international practice, and in-depth analysis of policy options that
would be most appropriate in the Russian context. In doing so, the project also contributed to fulfilling key
condionality of the 1997 CAS, which envisaged supporting an expanded assistance program in case the
government delivered sound macroeconomic policy, and an accelerated program of structural reforms.

Overall, the Project took into account existing capacity constraints in policy advice, as well as lack of
reliable statistical data that would be required for such an advice. The decision to set up the BEA outside
the government proved to be of particular value, because this allowed the institution to remain the source of
depoliticized economic analysis even amidst numerous government reshuffles in the aftermath of the 1998
crisis (it is worth mentioning that not all cabinets of those days were equally reform-minded). The Project



                                                       - 2 -

design was quite simple, allowing both independence and accountability of the BEA, which contributed to
making the Project more manageable and less risky.

During preparation of the Project the goals for each component were introduced presenting an objective for
each component in more detail, especially for the Part A (Policy Studies). The detailed objectives were
stated as follows:

The objective of the Project is to build institutional capacity for sound economic analysis in support of
market-oriented and structural reforms.

Part A. Policy Studies:
1. The preparation of an annual report on the state of the Borrower's economy.
2. The preparation of periodic reports on the Borrower's economic performance.
3. The carrying out of selected policy studies on cross-sectoral topics in support of the structural reform
agenda.
4. The provision of advice on developments in the policy environment.

Part B. Establishment of the Bureau of Economic Analysis:
1. Carry out Part A of the Project; and
2. Establish technical and institutional linkages to domestic and international economic institutions.

Part C. Improvement of National Accounts:
Development of an integrated framework of the national accounts by Goskomstat

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective of the Project has not been revised in course of Project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project included the following three components:

   1. Policy Studies (US$ 10.0 million, including counterpart funds)supporting preparation of
   medium-term policy studies, maintaining quarterly economic performance indicators, preparation of
   annual report on the state of economy, and producing quick-response notes.
   2. Bureau of Economic Analysis (US$ 16.1 million, including counterpart funding) financing
   technical and human resources needed to increase capacity for economic policy analysis both in the BEA
   and in the core economic ministries.
   3. Improvement of National Accounts (US$ 6.4 million, including counterpart funding) supporting
   acceleration in developing integrated framework of national accounts through financing technical
   assistance, training, and procurement of relevant equipment.

   The components of the Project were directly related to the three sub-goals formulated in support of the
   Project development objective. While the first component was intended to support actual policy design,
   the second component provided for building adequate capacity for economic analysis based on reliable
   statistical data to be provided by the third component.
3.4 Revised Components:
The list of components remained the same throughout the Project implementation. However, the relative
cost of components changed due to (i) revisions of counterpart funding in relation to BEA operating costs
due to budget constraints resulting from 1998 financial crisis; (ii) some revisions in procurement plans for
other components; (iii) larger reliance on local economic expertise as compared to the portion envisaged at



                                                      - 3 -

the time of the Project preparation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Taking into account the government institutional capacity constraints, in particular the inability of the
government to attract highly qualified experts for performing economic analysis inside the core economic
ministries (due to low civil service salaries, high politization, and other factors), the Project proposed to
establish a separate entity - the BEA - which would be legally separate from the government yet
accountable to it. Moreover, being independent, the BEA would serve only one client ­ the government,
which would make it different from all the other Russian independent think-tanks. For the latter purpose a
process of formulating and approving the BEA work program, and controlling quality of its outputs jointly
by the government and the Bank was designed. The check and balances in setting the research agenda, and
in the quality control also comprised a dual system of the Board of Trustees chaired by the Deputy Prime
Minister in charge of economic policy, and comprising representatives of the key government bodies
(mainly ministers and their deputies), and the Academic Council representing independent think-tanks and
the expert community.

The need for strong Project management structure, and importance of high government commitment were
correctly identified as crucial lessons learnt from the Bank experience in Russia. The design of the Project
was based on unique project management arrangements promoting interdepartmental cooperation and
introducing quality assurance function in the process of policy development. These features remained
important during the whole period of Project implementation.

At the design stage, the Project team also capitalized on Bank experience with comparable projects in other
countries, such as support to the Korea Development Institute, and the Thai Development and Research
Institute. Even though these institutions were supported predominantly through grant financing, they
clearly demonstrated that strong demand from the Government side is a crucial success factor. In case of
the BEA Project this demand was demonstrated by (i) a request for the Project from both core economic
policy making ministries (Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy); (ii) nomination of the Deputy
Prime Minister and representatives of all key ministries to the BEA Board of Trustees; and (iii) requests
from many government agencies for inclusion of specific research into the BEA's first year Work Program.

Quality at entry was rated satisfactory by the QAG based on (i) consistency of the Project development
objective with the country needs to implement structural reforms agenda and restore economic growth; (ii)
consistency with the CAS objectives related to policy advice and supporting integrated, cross-sectoral
policies in core social and economic areas; (iii) Project implementation arrangements that accounted for
government institutional constraints in terms of policy design, as well as the need to create reliable
statistical data and economic analysis capacity so as to ensure successful development of sound economic
policies; and (iv) strong rationale for Bank involvement and importance of the Project for sustainability of
the Bank portfolio in Russia.

With the benefit of hindsight, one important shortcoming was the fact that, at the stage of the Project
design, the pace of public sector reforms in Russia was overestimated. It was assumed that by the time the
Project would be completed, the government would be able to provide adequate remuneration to highly
qualified economic experts, and by becoming a competitive employer vis-a-vis the Russian private sector,
would be able to retain the BEA staff even after transition to direct budget financing. Another assumption,
which has not materialized, was that the government would be able to directly finance the BEA from the
budget after the closing of the loan, while keeping the institution legally separate from the government. This
became impossible upon adoption of the new public procurement legislation--designed with Bank
assistance--which envisaged usage of public funds for paying non-governmental entities only on a tender



                                                     - 4 -

basis. These overoptimistic assumptions could not but hamper BEA sustainability, which is discussed in
detail in the subsequent sections of the ICR.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The achievement of the Project development objective is rated satisfactory. The Project has met all key
   performance indicators identified at its design (although sustainability of one objective still remains in
   question, which is discussed in the next section of the ICR). Throughout Project implementation, the
   BEA has been successfully implementing its main mission of providing the authorities with in-depth
   socio-economic analysis of priority issues on the reform agenda, and advice on improving the quality of
   reform. Demand for BEA services has exceeded the level projected at the design stage. Core ministries
   involved in policy making, including the Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Finance, have repeatedly
   emphasized high quality of BEA analysis (some letters from BEA clients are presented as supporting
   documents to the ICR). Key advantage of the BEA over other think-tanks was that government
   ministries and agencies were able to approach it with requests to promptly prepare sound research on a
   broad range of policy issues, and also directly involve BEA's experts in the preparation of government
   documents, even on such sensitive and often confidential issues as debt strategy, budget formulation, and
   taxation policy. The Project's main outcome was in deepening and enhancing the quality, ownership and
   sustainability of the institutuional reforms in Russia.

   Many BEA recommendations were incorporated into concrete reform actions by the federal authorities:
   from government Resolutions to legislative acts to mid- and long-term development strategies,
   particularly in the areas of fiscal and monetary policies, anti-monopoly regulation, financial sector
   development, social policies, etc. A substantial portion of BEA reports has been published at the
   request of the government, and broadly disseminated in Russia contributing to capacity building at the
   sub-national level (traveling on other projects, members of the Project team have heard high regards
   about BEA publications even in remote regions of the country, where quite full collections of the
   institution's manuscripts could be found on shelves in offices of the Heads of local branches of various
   federal agencies: anti-monopoly, labor, and social protection).

   To adequately assess the Project's outcome it is worth taking a brief stock of reform progress over the
   period of Project implementation, focusing in particular on the period of reforms launched after the 1998
   crisis--these reform efforts constitute the core of the government current reform strategy--and then
   comparing this to the stock-taking of BEA contributions to the design of these reforms (discussed in
   more detail in Section 10 of the ICR).

   The Government economic reform program

   A key milestone in Russia's reform was laid in July 2001, when the Government began to implement its
   Medium Term Program of Social and Economic Development for 2002-2004. The Medium Term
   Program identified five structural reform priorities, which in turn have been driving the legislative
   agenda:

   · Reduce poverty levels and income differentials by providing incentives for wage and employment
   growth, and by improved targeting of social assistance.
   · Achieve economic modernization and improvement in enterprise efficiency by: (i) eliminating implicit
   subsidies embedded in low tariffs (utilities and social transfers), (ii) increasing the efficiency of the
   infrastructure monopolies, housing and communal services; and (iii) improving the innovative and



                                                     - 5 -

  technological potential of the economy.
  · Create an institutional environment favorable to investment in the real sector, and develop financial
  intermediation. Introduce effective protection of property rights, and develop competitive markets for
  goods, services and capital (including land); increase the role of small and medium businesses.
  · Improve fiscal efficiency by focusing budget expenditures on the priority targets of social and
  economic policy, by improving control over the assets and liabilities of the state, by streamlining the
  budgeting process, and by maintaining an efficient tax system.
  · Reduce regional differentiation in social and economic development, and strengthen the economic
  foundations of the Russian Federation by ensuring conformity of federal and sub-national legislation,
  and by introducing clear functional divisions of authority and financial resources between the federal
  and sub-national levels of government.

  To operationalize the Program, the government developed the Action Plan for 2000-2001, which
  contained 119 measures in the areas of economic modernization and social development (GoR
  Resolution No. 1072-R of July 26 2000, later amended by GOR Resolution No. 933 of July 14, 2001.)
  Most of these measures included more than one output, ranging from a report to the Government, to
  normative acts by the Government, its agencies or the President, to draft laws. The legislative agenda
  was particularly impressive, and most of these laws successfully passed parliamentary approval between
  late 2000 and 2004.

  Several important pieces of legislation issued over the 2000-2004 have had a particularly significant
  impact on Russia's economic environment. These are the Tax Code, the Labor Code, the Land Code, the
  law on State Social Assistance, and a set of laws enacting the Pension Reform. Two other legal
  packages approved in 2001 and critical for improving the busiuness climate are the Deregulation
  Package, which comprised four laws - on registration, licensing, inspections, and certification - and a
  Strategy for reforming RAO UES, the national electricity monopoly.

  A flat income tax of 13 percent, and a reduction of the corporate profit tax from 35 to 24 percent were
  the crucial components of the new tax system. The Labor Code introduced greater flexibility for
  employers to stimulate labor mobility. The Land Code made land available for sale, thus setting the
  necessary preconditions for the inter-enterprise redistribution of assets, and for developing a mortgage
  system. The law on State Social Assistance enacted a gradual substitution of targeted assistance for the
  socially unjust and extremely inefficient system of categorical privileges. The Pension Reform legislation
  signaled a beginning of a shift to the fully funded pension system. The Reform of RAO-UES, even if
  slowly implemented, set a precedent for separating natural monopoly components of UES, Gazprom and
  the national railways from those that may be subject to competition.

  The banking sector reform program has now entered its fourth year, and has recently gained
  momentum. The program accelerated substantially last year after the approval of an ambitious revised
  reform agenda by the Government in July 2004. This was followed by the Duma's approval of several
  important amendments to laws, including changes in bankruptcy procedures for banks, the strengthening
  of the Central Bank's enforcement powers, and measures to smooth the transition to a deposit insurance
  system.

Other achievements of the reform program over the timeframe of the Project have included:

o      Significant progress in negotiations for WTO accession, which is currently envisaged in 2006.
o      A new Law on the Principles of Technical Regulations, which aims at the gradual abolition of
obsolete mandatory standardization and certification requirements.


                                                    - 6 -

o        The federal program for Reforming Civil Service in Russia (2003-2005) comprised a
comprehensive set of measures aimed at strengthening the civil service. It led to the adoption of the federal
laws On the System of the Civil Service of the Russian Federation (2003) and On the Civil Public Service
of the Russian Federation (2004), which introduced a number of new principles, such as a
performance-based pay scheme, merit-based promotion, and a contractual system.               A reform of the
remuneration system in the civil service was launched in 2002-2004.
o        The Government undertook major efforts to reduce unfunded federal mandates in recent years. A
special new federal transfer fund, the Compensation Fund was created in 2001 in order to provide financial
support to regions for carrying out important federal mandates ranging from transportation, healthcare,
housing and communal services benefits. The number of mandates covered by this fund has steadily
increased. New amendments to the Budget Code now require any law that mandates expenditures to be the
financial responsibility of the level of government from which the law emanated.
o        A new Customs Code was adopted, which limits the discretion of Customs officials in the
implementation of regulations and also enhances the trade facilitation function of Customs.
o        The government started to move to the system of performance-based budgeting.
O        A program for the monetization of social benefits given to various groups of the population was
implemented in January 2005 (even though not without initial glitches). This finally made the first step
toward a general overhaul of the social protection system. Even if unpopular, this reform is required as a
preliminary step toward increasing the targeting of public funds toward the poor;
O        Significant progress was achieved in the design of public health insurance and the restructuring of
the health service delivery system;
o        The system of National Accounts has been brought in line with internationally accepted standards,
and reliability of statistical data is being further improved with the support of the on-going Bank-financed
STASYS project, also managed by the BEA on behalf of the government.

Contribution by the BEA into the design of these reforms has been significant and acknowledged. Main
examples of the direct impact of BEA recommendations on the reform design are presented in Section 10 of
the ICR. Acknowledgments of the BEA role are presented in the supporting documents section.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A. Policy Studies (Memorandum of the President - US$10.0 million, including counterpart funds;
actual - US$8.0 million, including counterpart funds). The outputs of the component are rated
satisfactory. During the project implementation, BEA produced over 50 major studies, and designed policy
recommendations that were adopted in many reform areas: fiscal and trade policies, social and financial
sectors development, administrative reform and business deregulation, competition policy, etc. (more
detailed breakdown is presented in Section 10 of the ICR). In all the correspondence from the BEA clients
one can find references to high quality of analysis, and practical nature of BEA recommendations (see
supporting documents). In addition to large research projects, the BEA has been producing around 30
quick-response policy notes per annum, flexibly providing analytical support to the client agencies. Annual
reports on the status of the Russian economy produced by the BEA have become a well-regarded source of
a comprehensive analysis on the progress of reform.

Part B. Bureau of Economic Analysis (Memorandum of the President - US$16.1 million, including
counterpart funds; actual - US$ 10.3 million, including counterpart funds). The outputs of this
component are rated satisfactory. The BEA became operational in 1997, and has been continuing
successful operations since that time. The BEA was successful in attracting highly qualified staff, and
quickly established itself as a respected think-tank supporting government policy making. However,
although at the time of ICR preparation, the BEA was still successfully performing research activities, the
main concern is over the sustainability of the BEA as an independent think-tank accountable to the


                                                        - 7 -

government. In accordance with the existing budget and procurement legislation, the federal budget cannot
allocate funds directly to non-budget entities. Neither the government beneficiaries can enter into direct
contracts with any service providers, including research institutions, other than on a tender basis. At the
same time, the remuneration in the public service is still too low to attract highly experienced professionals
to an institution, which would be directly financed from the budget (and hence subject to the public service
pay scale).

Part C. Improvement of National Accounts (Memorandum of the President - US$6.4 million,
including counterpart funds; actual - US$5.4 million, including counterpart funds). The outputs of this
component are rated satisfactory. Implementation of the component has supported introduction of the
SNA-93 methodology into the Russian statistical practice. The component has supported the construction
of the Input-Output Tables for Russia; new economic classifications have been developed; a range of
studies on monitoring prices, evaluating fixed capital formation, accounting for impact of foreign economic
relations, measuring non-observed economy have been completed. In addition to contributing to
improvement in the national accounts, the component also contributed to improving the quality of social
data, including improvements in living standards statistics, household budget and labor market surveys.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project was substantial. The Project has helped to generate:

    (i) a sustainable, internal demand for in-depth, quality policy analysis across the Russian public sector;

    (ii) local capacity to supply this analysis; and

    (iii) not least, capacity on the part of public sector officials to recognize good quality analysis by
    establishing a high standard. This was critical to deal with the information asymmetries that plague
    infant markets for policy advice, where purchasers often do not have the skills to evaluate the quality of
    the outputs they are purchasing.

The activities of the BEA throughout the implementation of the Project have set high a standard for quality
of economic and social analysis in support of policy making. For example, BEA consultants supporting the
Ministry of Finance in developing macroeconomic policy and conducting monitoring (the Economic Expert
Group) have significantly strengthened the capacity of the Ministry in performing forecasting functions and
applying the modern techniques to budget projections, while implementation of the Part C of the Project has
substantially improved the capacity of the National Statistics Office (Goskomstat/Rosstat) in applying
SNA system, and social statistics.


BEA has also established itself as an efficient project implementation unit (PIU) for Bank supported
projects, although this was never set as a separate task while designing the Project. This has been proved
by BEA winning tenders for becoming a PIU for State Statistical System Improvement, Hydrometeo
System Modernization, and Judicial Reform Support projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 8 -

The major factor outside the control of the government--although, strictly speaking, emerged not without
government participation--which negatively affected project implementation, was the financial meltdown
of 1998. The main impediment was not even the budget squeeze, which made counterpart co-financing a
more acute issue, but frequent changes in the government that caused several delays in approving the BEA
annual Work Programs. However, these delays have eventually had no major impact on achievement of the
Project outcomes and objectives.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Yet even setting aside the impact of the financial crisis, and the frequent Cabinet reshuffles, including the
Deputy Prime Minister level (i.e. a person responsible for chairing the BEA Board of Trustees), we have to
note some slowness on the part of the government in approving the BEA's annual Work Programs, and, in
earlier years, counterpart financing. The former factor was at least partially explained by the
additional--i.e. not envisaged at the Project design--control procedures imposed by the MoEDT (as the
main budget executing agency for the Project) for gathering and filtering requests for BEA studies from
other government agencies. The latter fact was due to insufficient efficiency of the budget authorities ­ a
disadvantage, which was overcome in later years of Project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were some problems in the early phases of the Project (prior to FY01). The Project was brought to a
halt for some time, when the staff of BEA was not paid while the Bank insisted on the government paying
the tax portion of their salaries. In Component C there were considerable start-up delays caused by the fact
that Goskomstat, the state statistical agency was in the midst of a population census, and had staff
shortages. Once corrected, these latter problems had no lasting substantive negative impact on this Project
component, which has turned out to be successful.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In response to the request of the government, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement and reallocated the
loan proceeds several times, most recently in November 2001, to reduce the proportion of operating costs
to be met by the budget in successive years. According to the amendment, the budget should cover 5% of
operating cost by year 3, increasing to 40% by year 5. The government has always been current in meeting
these commitments.

Otherwise, there has been no major change in envisaged cost levels and structure. Component A primarily
financed expenditures on services rendered by domestic and international consultants included in the BEA
Consultant Roster (which comprised several hundred experts by Project completion). Component B
financed co-financed the operating costs of the BEA, and Component C financed improvement of the
system of national Accounts at the national Statistics Offcie - Gosskomstat/Rosstat.

Details of costs and financing are presented in Annex 2 to the ICR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of component A (Policy Studies) raises no questions, as policy recommendations developed
by the BEA in its studies have already been incorporated in design of reforms being implemented by the
government (see section 10 and supporting documents for details). This outcome is almost certainly
irreversible, even if there is currently a temporary slow-down in reform implementation due to some
complacency on the government side in proceeding with some crucial, yet unpopular, reforms in the times
of extremely high public revenues from hydrocarbon exports.




                                                     - 9 -

There is also no sustainability issue as far as the outcome of component C (SNA) is concerned. Training
has been conducted both for BEA staff and for Goskomstat/Rosstat officials; and new methodologies
related to statistical data collection and SNA-93 application have been operationalized by
Goskomstat/Rosstat.


Sustainability of component B (establishing BEA) is the most contentious issue in assessing the Project. At
the design stage, a lot of attention was paid to ensuring the sustainability of this component. In the
Memorandum of the President it was proposed that the sustainability of the Project results would be
ensured through financial charge-back mechanisms requiring the government to contribute increasing
portion of funds to operating costs of the BEA. However, new budget and procurement legislation enacted
in Russia in late 1990s effectively precluded the government from direct financing of the BEA after the
Loan's closure (unless BEA staff is paid in accordance with the public sector tariff schedule). It is worth
noting that the program of raising public sector wages is ongoing, but has still some way to go to make
them competitive vis-à-vis the private sector for highly skilled professionals.

As QAG noted, there are aspects of the Project which argue in favor of both its sustainability and lack of it.
On the one hand, the BEA has achieved such a status for itself, in terms of the high degree of relevance of
the policy studies it has completed, and their contribution to Russia's reforms, that it is difficult to envisage
that it will simply wind down and pass into oblivion. Also, the actual absolute cost in budget or other funds
to pay the annual operating costs of the BEA is small compared to the overall impact that the policy work
can achieve On the other hand, if a solid commitment from Government is not forthcoming, the ensuing
uncertainty in the minds of the operating staff in the BEA may be such as to lead to departures of high
quality staff (something that appears to have started in some way already), and this could lead to an
undermining of all that has been achieved so far.

Taking this remaining uncertainty into account, we rate the sustainability of the second component as
Unlikely.

Thus, even though sustainability of the Project's two components (out of three) is rated highly likely, the
`unlikely' rating of the third component calls for rating overall sustainability of the Project as Unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the QAG suggested, it would be useful to continue the discussions with the Government that have
already taken place over some restructuring of the BEA statute, to permit some form of privatization, or
partial commercialization of the BEA, to permit it to contract itself to the corporate sector as a means of
cross financing its activities. The final evaluation of the Project impact would be desirable after it becomes
clear whether the BEA management and the government finally decide on the most appropriate means of
sustaining the institution operating costs (or fail to do so).


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, appraisal and preparation of the Project is rated satisfactory.
This was also confirmed by the QAG panel, which evaluated quality at entry. The Project objectives and
design were highly consistent with the government's development strategy and the bank's CAS (see
Sections 3 and 4 of the ICR for a more detailed discussion).

7.2 Supervision:



                                                       - 10 -

The Bank performance is rated satisfactory. A key factor in supervision was decentralization of
responsibility over it to the staff in the country office, which provided for continuous trouble shooting and
cost-effective supervision.


The QAG rated the quality of supervision of the Project as Satisfactory overall, with a number of Highly
Satisfactory sub categories. This included the Focus on Development Effectiveness, which was Highly
Satisfactory overall, comprising Highly Satisfactory ratings for each of the sub categories: Identification
and Assessment of Problems; Focus on Sustainability; and Actions Taken and Follow up.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. There had been full and very active
ownership of the Project on the Borrower's side since its conception. Key government counterparts--at the
level of Deputy Ministers--participated in the Project identification and design, including shaping all BEA
governance principles and management structures that would allow achievement of a dual goal of the BEA
independence and accountability.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government overall performance is rated satisfactory. As mentioned in the previous sections of the
ICR, at times some government agencies could have been more prompt in solving technical and financial
issues of the Project implementation. Yet none of them seriously jeopardized the Project. Hence overall
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. The BEA has been adequately staffed on both
the research and administrative (PIU) sides, and overall managed in an effective manner. Its performance is
rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

There at least four lessons learned from Project implementation. The first lesson from the Project
implementation is that assistance to improving the government access to sound economic advice in key
areas of the reform strategy pays off in terms of deepening the quality and ownership (by promoting home
grown research) of institutional reforms, and therefore their sustainability.


The second lesson is that establishing such a think-tank as an independent entity, yet with a governance
structure that makes it fully accountable to the government allows it to maintain objectivity of the analysis
and recommendations, while preventing the institution from deviating into researching topics of purely
academic significance. The Project shows how important it is in building capacity (demand and supply) for
quality public policy analysis to design an appropriate market model, taking into account a host of issues -
how to generate demand, how to deal with the informational asymmetries that cause inefficient use of
resources, what capacity the government should have in-house as opposed to outsourcing analysis, and how


                                                      - 11 -

to ensure independence and objectivity avoiding political capture of an institution.


The third lesson is that for achieving all of the above, the quality oversight of the research on the Bank side
plays an important role. It makes spervision labor-intensive because it requires involvement of a broad
team of Bank staff in reviewing key analytical products of an institution. Yet by closely supervising the
quality of the research program, the Bank allows the government to pay for, and learn how to do quality
research that otherwise might have been requested from donors/external consultants, or the Bank itself.
The quality control provided by Bank supervision may have been one of the catalytic factors in the success
of the Project. This also shows that decentralizing supervision of such projects to the field --which allows
prompt arrangement of the reviewing process, and daily dialogue with a think-tank staff--plays an
important role in ensuring quality of the Project outputs, and thus is an important lesson.


Finally,the fourth lesson is that long-term financing of institutions, suach as the BEA, should be based on
very solid assumptions. For instance, the assumptions made at the Project design regarding government's
ability to adequatelypay for BEA staff, was too optimistic. More specifically, given that creating highly
professional institutions within the public sector is contingent upon public sector salaries being attractive
enough, which is often not realistic, project design should take into account such options as fostering
public-private partnerships, or even the total privatization of such institutions as the BEA by the end of the
project cycle.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Investment Policy Department of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade has contributed
the following assessment of Project implementation to the ICR:

"The Project was implemented over 1997 ­ 2005, and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
was assigned by the government as the implementing agency. The primary objective of the Project was to
provide advisory services to the government of the Russian Federation and other federal-level authorities in
developing economic policies.

The BEA met requests by the Government Apparat, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade,
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Energy, the Accounting Chamber of the Russian
Federation, the Central Bank of Russia, and some other ministries and departments of the Russian
Federation. Sixty seven information and analytical bulletins and thirty seven monographs on relevant issues
of the economic policy, 120 analytical reviews and 276 policy notes were produced under the Project. The
Project hosted 7 international conferences. In addition to the BEA staff, the Project has mobilized expertise
of over 800 Russian and foreign consulatnts.

Taking into account all of the above, and also the fact that recommendations developed under the Project
have been widely used by the federal executive bodies while designing social and economic policies, we
consider the Project implementation successful."

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 12 -

N.A.

10. Additional Information

                                      MAIN OUTPUTS OF THE PROJECT

       Fulfilling requests by the federal agencies for research and policy advice has beeen BEA's main
       function. The BEA annual Work Program has always been built around requests from the Heads of
       the leading economic ministries and committees, cabinet members, government staff executives, and
       the Heads of the Duma's economic committees. The BEA served as a support center for the
       Ministry of Anti-Monopoly Policy and its successor agencies; Goskomstat 9now Rosstat); the
       Ministry of Finance; the Government's Apparat, the Ministry of Industry; the Accounting Chamber;
       the Ministry of Health and Social Development; and the Central Bank (see breakdown of BEA
       research activities by client in Table below).

       Table: The BEA's Analytical Projects by Year

                                              1997     1998    1999      2000      2001       2002    2003    2004
        Published Bulletins                     3        8       9         7         1          4      18      17
        Policy Notes                            -       65       26       27         33        15      16      22
        Published books                         -        3       3         7         7          5       4      3
        Breakdown                               3       15       16       21         17        21      23      14
        of analytical Projects by client
        Finance Ministry                         -       3       4         4         4          3       3      2
        Economics Ministry                      -        1       6         6         2         10       7      7
        Anti-monopoly Agency                    -        3       3         5         4          -       5      3
        Ministry of Social Development           -       4       -        2          -           -      2      -
        Accounting Chamber                      -        -        -        -         3          2       1      -
        Other                                   3        4       3         4         4          6       5      2

         The Project reached full capacity ­ 20 Projects and memos on various subjects for different
       institutional customers a year ­ faster than was originally planned. Distribution of projects among
       various institutional customers has never been in full balance as a reflection of frequent government
       reshuffles, but the total number of requested projects has revealed steady demand for the Bureau's
       products.

        The role of BEA's analysis in particular areas

Below we list BEA key notes commissioned at the direct request by senior executives of the Government
and key ministries:

o        Note on Currency Exchange Rate (1997), in which BEA's experts substantiated the need to move
to a floating exchange rate of the ruble as one way of preventing a large-scale financial crisis.

o        A series of Notes prepared for GoR Chairman (May-June 1998) concerning key policy issues. The
main purpose of these notes was to propose, on the basis of review of international experience in
overcoming financial crises, a set of actions aimed at preventing a large-scale crisis that Russia was facing.




                                                    - 13 -

o        A paper for the Center of Strategic Research (CSR, widely known as the Gref Center) on
macroeconomic, antimonopoly, and social policies, and insurance system development (2000). This paper
was prepared in the course of developing an economic program of the newly elected Russian President.
BEA contributions were included as separate sections in the Program for Long-Term Social and Economic
Development of the Russian Federation (until 2010).

o        Note on the Soviet Debt to Germany (2001) substantiated the illegitimacy of German side's
evaluation of the size of the debt. The subject was the debt owed by the Soviet Union to the German
Democratic Republic and the DM exchange rate that was proposed by the German side for the calculations.
BEA's calculations and substantiations, which were used as a basis for Russia's position in bilateral
negotiations with Germany, helped to considerably reduce the final debt amount.

o        Notes on the estimation of government revenues from international economic activities,
commissioned by Russia's Auditing Chamber (2001). These notes analyzed the contribution of oil
companies and steel/metal producers to the federal revenues, and receipts of the federal budget from foreign
economic operations. BEA's expert analysis helped make a sound assessment of private firms' contribution
to the revenues, and was used as a basis in the recommendations drawn by the Auditing Chamber on these
matters.

Some BEA-initiated notes have drawn government's attention to those economic issues that for one or
another reason were left unattended, while requiring prompt action. Such papers include:

o        Tax Evasion Note (1998). BEA's experts demonstrated that tax compliance for the personal
income tax among population with the lowest income was virtually complete. The extent of tax delinquency
was the greatest among the richest population segments. As a result, the effective rate of the income tax
was much lower than the official tax rate. BEA argued in favor of introduction of a flat tax rate. Such a
measure was implemented in 2000, when a new government took the office.

o        Note on Currency Regulation Regime (1998). This was the first analytical piece presented to the
Government and containing a warning of high risks associated with introduction of a Currency Board (CB),
creation of which was then supported by some policy makers and experts. They believed that a Currency
Board could help overcome the financial crisis, replacing for the time being the Central Bank. A grave
crisis that subsequently broke out in Argentina ­ the country to whose experience appealed the proponents
of the idea ­ confirmed the correctness of BEA's conclusions. The CB has never been introduced in
Russia.

o        A series of anti-money laundering notes (2000) summarized international experience in this area,
and proposed basic measures to combat financial crime, including creation of a special government agency.
BEA's proposals were fully endorsed by the Government. This led to establishment of the Finance
Monitoring Agency in Russia, and approval of anti-money laundering action plan, implementation of which
allowed FATF to take Russia off its black list.

Along with preparation of Notes, BEA's staff participated in several activities implemented by the
government and key economic ministries:

o        Preparing programs of social and economic development of Russia (concept design, writing
individual sections, participation in discussions)



                                                   - 14 -

o       Regular meetings with the Chairman of the Government to discuss urgent economic issues facing
the country

o       Meetings of Boards of ministries (Ministry of the Economy, Ministry for Antimonopoly Policy and
Enterprise Support)

o       Advisory assistance to senior management of ministries and agencies (MOF, Ministry of the
Economy, Ministry of Labor and Social Development, Ministry for Antimonopoly Policy and Enterprise
Support, Central Bank of Russia).

Many of BEA recommendations have had direct impact on the government reform agenda. Below we list
the most notable examples of this impact:

Macroeconomic policy

        BEA studies highlighted an important problem of capital flight. It touched upon a number of key
aspects of the economic policy and had to be addressed.

        BEA took part in elaborating a methodology of assessing Russia's foreign trade which was
subsequently widely used by the Government, ministries, economic sector agencies and analytical centers.

External debt settlement

        BEA experts played a noticeable role in elaborating possible ways of settling Russia's debt to
Germany. It implied repayment to Germany of the debt incurred by the former Soviet Union. BEA
estimates and calculations helped the RF Government draft a report providing the reasoning for invalidity
of the debt amount claimed by the German side. The report helped Russia work out its stand on the debt for
high level talks. In the long run, it was instrumental in bringing the debt amount by $ 6.5 billion.

Economic forecasting

        The models developed by BEA made it possible to analyze structural changes in the economy, in
particular, on a quarterly basis, shifts in the input-output balance. In assessing the results and developing
macroeconomic projections based on the use of the models, BEA cooperated with the Economic Expert
Group. Alternative scenarios based on different assumptions for external economic environment, borrowing
from international organizations, external debt restructuring, etc. were prepared. These projections were
intensively used over 1999-2003 by the Secretariat of the Chairman of the RF Government, State Duma,
Security Council under the President of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Taxes, the Central Bank,
and other federal executive authorities. They were also used by the Ministry of Economic Development and
Trade for the assessment of impact of Russia's accession to the WTO. BEA projections were used to draft
Federal Budgets for 1998-2006. BEA and EEG experts had drawn up the plan of a long-term
macroeconomic strategy, which was taken as the basis to draw up Basic Guidelines of Long-Term Social
and Economic Policy of the Government of the Russian Federation.

Tax and budget legislation

        BEA proposals on enhancing tax administration, procedures for tax inspections, accrual payment



                                                     - 15 -

of specific taxes served as the basis for drafting amendments to the general and special parts of the Tax
Code, other legal regulations on taxes which were subsequently passed and became part of the tax
normative framework. BEA proposals were directly reflected in the Tax Code of the Russian Federation
(chapters 21-23, 25, 26, 26.4 and 30). BEA recommendations were used to introduce amendments into
chapters of the Tax Code (part two), in particular into chapters 23, 24, 25, 25.2, 25.3, to section VIII.1. In
particular:

o        turnover tax accrued on proceeds from sales of goods;
o        income tax flat rate was introduced;
o        wage bill taxation system was modified;
o        VAT accrual was brought in line with international rules of calculating this tax;
o        Internationally accepted procedure for determining tax base was introduced for the profit tax;
o        large number of restrictions on charging expenses to costs were repealed;
o        unified tax rate was introduced for companies of different sectors of economy.

         BEA recommendations were taken into account in amendments drafted for the Russian tax
legislation. Excise tax on crude oil was abolished; the focus in taxation was shifted from extraction to sales
of petroleum products; diesel, and automobile oils were added to the list of excise goods. A special taxation
regime was introduced for production sharing agreements. BEA recommendations in oil sector were
reflected in the following decisions and documents:

o        Order of the RF Government On Measures to Increase Sustainability and Develop Fuel and Energy
Sector of the Country # 389 dated 16 March 2000;
o        Tax Code of the RF;
o        Laws on small business taxation in Russia.

         BEA recommendations were used as the basis for the budget reform in the Russian Federation,
including designing a new division of responsibilities between federal and sub-national levels of public
authorities. This included contributions to draftibg federal laws, government resolutions on assessing
commitments of the federal budget and treasury execution of the federal budget. In particular, BEA
proposals were used to draft amendments to the RF Budget Code (regarding inter-budgetary relations),
Federal Laws On Basic Principles of Organization of the Local Government in the Russian Federation, and
On Basic Principles of Organization of Legislative and Executive Bodies of Constituent Territories of the
Russian Federation.

         Proposals developed by BEA staff were used to draft amendments to the RF Budget Code and
federal laws aimed at enhancing efficiency of budget expenditures and effectiveness of programs financed
by the budget. The approaches suggested by BEA set the basis for the introduction into the budget process
of result-oriented budgeting techniques. Performance-based budgeting is currently being introduced at the
federal level, and its extension to the sub-regional level is being piloted. BEA recommendations were
reflected in Government Resolution # 249 On Measures to Raise the Effectiveness of Budget Expenditures.

         Proposals and conclusions made by BEA experts were taken into account in cutting unfunded
federal mandates, and the division of expenditure obligations between the levels of the budget system. The
process of social benefits (l'goty) monetization was launched. The Government passed a Resolution
adopting the Concept of Budget Process Reform in the Russian Federation for 2004-2006 envisaging
transition to new forms of budget planning.




                                                    - 16 -

        BEA recommendations were used as the basis for designing the system of mandatory valuation
standards, which was approved by the Resolution of the RF Government ON Approval of Valuation
Standards. Main results of the relevant research were compiled into a text book Methodological Framework
of Property Valuation published by the RF Ministry of Education. BEA analytical studies were used to
work out a Body of Standards of the Russian Appraiser Union. The Ministry of Economic Development
and Trade worked out proposals for the Government of the Russian Federation to introduce amendments to
the Law of the Russian Federation On Valuation in the Russian Federation.

        BEA recommendations were used to draft Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation
On Assessing the Public Rights over the Results of Scientific and Technical Activities. BEA proposals
were used to design the Methodological Recommendations on Establishing Market Value of Intellectual
Property approved by the Ministry of the RF Property.

Financial Sector

        BEA proposals on (i) setting a limit to the most risky bank transactions, (ii) a more stringent
approach to identification of bank losses, and (iii) transfer to international financial reporting standards
were reflected in the CBR Program of Urgent Measures on Restructuring the Banking Sector of the
Russian Federation (October 1998). The CBR also used BEA recommendations while promoting
requirements by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and procedures of granting new banking
licenses. BEA analysis has also facilitated establishing a specialized institution in the aftermath of the 1998
financial crisis ­ Agency on Restructuring Credit Organizations (ARCO).

        BEA recommendations were reflected in the following GOR documents and actions:

o       A Mid-term Program for Social and Economic Development of the Russian Federation up to 2004
approved by the in April 2001;

o       Federal Law of the RF On Mandatory Insurance of Civil Liability of Vehicle Owners # 40-FZ
dated 25.04.2004;

o       Establishing the Federal Insurance Supervision Service;

o       Revoking licenses of insurance companies that fail to meet the requirements of laws (Order of the
Federal Insurance Supervision Service # 38 of 20.09.2004 On Revocation Licenses on Dealing in
Insurance Issued to Insurance Companies).

        BEA recommendations were reflected the pension reform of 2003, in particular putting in place a
system of personal pension accounts, requirements to non-state pension funds, terms of investment of
pension funds, etc.

        BEA recommendations were used as the basis for the Accounting Reform Program approved by
the Resolution of the RF Government # 283 of 06.03.1998. In addition BEA contributed to the Resolution
of the RF Government # 382-p of 21.03.1998., and # 586-p of 22.05.1998, which stipulated the Plan for
introducing accounting standards.

        BEA recommendations in the financial area were also reflected in the following legislative and
regulatory acts:



                                                    - 17 -

o       Federal Law On Ratification of Convention on Money Laundering, Detection, Blockage and
Confiscation of Income of Crime # 62-FZ of 28/05/2001;

o       Federal Law On Combating Legalization of Criminal Income and Financing of Terrorism
(Anti-Money Laundering) # 115-FZ of 07.08.2001. Federal Law On Authorized Body to Counter
Legalization (Money Laundering) of Income of Crime # 1263-FZ of 01.11.2001, which established the
Financial Monitoring Committee under the RF Ministry of Finance subsequently transformed into Federal
Financial Monitoring Service. Federal Law On Ratification of International Convention on the Suppression
of Financing of Terrorism # 88-FZ of 10.07.2002. Resolution of the RF Government On Provision of
Information and Documents to the Financial Monitoring Committee of the Russian Federation by public
authorities of constituent territories of the Russian Federation and local governments # 425 of 14.06.2002.
Order of the RF Government on Interaction in Countering Legalization (Money Laundering) of Criminal
Income # 1405-p of 07.10.2002.

Competition policy

        BEA recommendations on putting together the norms of antimonopoly legislation in commodity
and financial markets in one law, on raising the size of sanctions for violation of antimonopoly laws, on
specifying the circumstances for application of sanctions "on the letter of the law" and "on the basis of a
weighted approach" were used in drafting the Law On Competition Protection (2005) and amending the
Code on Administrative Offenses.

        Proposals to introduce a system of voluntary notification of agreements and agreed actions were
taken into account in amending the Law On Competition and Limitation of Monopolistic Activities in
Commodity Markets (2002). Certain recommendations on qualification of dominating position, monopoly
high/low prices were reflected in methodological documents of the antimonopoly agency.             The BEA
developed a notion of nondiscriminatory access (interpretation of the notion and its use for procedural
matters), which was included into antimonopoly and natural monopoly laws. Additional requirements on
granting access to infrastructure facilities on nondiscriminatory terms were included into sectoral laws
(Law On Railway Transport, On Communications) as well as into sub-laws aimed at regulating access
procedures.

Business regulation and public management

        BEA recommendations on improving regulatory framework for legal entity registration were taken
into account in the Law On Amending Laws of the Russian Federation to Enhance the Procedures of the
State Registration and Recording of Legal Entities and Self-Employed Businessmen # 185-FZ of 23
December 2003, and in the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation On Enhancing
Procedures of State Registration and Recording of Legal Entities and Self-Employed Businessmen # 110 of
26 February 2004.

        Proposals on separating supervisory functions from those of rules-setting were used to form the
new structure of the RF Government in 2004. Decree of the President of the Russian Federation On the
System and Structure of Federal Executive Authorities # 314 of 9 March 2004 transferred supervisory
functions to federal services, keeping normative functions at the ministries.

        BEA recommendations were taken into account in the Mid-Term Social and Economic
Development Program of the Russian Federation (2003-2005). The Program set forth the following basic


                                                     - 18 -

tasks in reforming the government regulation system:

o        Introduce procedures of proving the need for government intervention in economy, and the
procedure of regular assessment of the effectiveness of regulatory measures;

o        Enhance legal framework of self-regulation;

o        Abolish certain regulatory functions of the government;

o        Increase transparence y of public management: broaden the use of independent assessment of draft
regulatory and legal acts by self-regulatory organizations; grant access to information on activities of the
Government and its agencies to private citizens, put in place accessible information resources.

Promotion of innovative system and corporate sector

         A number of BEA proposals were reflected in conceptual documents and materials of the Ministry
of Industry, Science and Technology, and its successor: the Ministry of Education and Science. These
documents include the Basic Guidelines for the Government Innovative Policy in Scientific and
Technological, Production and Technological Areas, Strategy for Science and Innovation Development.
BEA recommendations were used to draft the following documents:

o        Draft concept of the use of information technologies in the activities of the Federal Government up
to 2010 submitted to the Government in 2003,

o        Concept of the development of information and telecommunication technologies up to 2010
approved by the Government in November 2004.

o        the Concept of the State Property Management and Privatization in the Russian Federation, and
later in amended Federal Law On Privatization of State and Municipal Property # 29 of 21 December
2001, Law On State and Municipal Unitary Enterprises # 169-FZ, Resolution of the Government On
Management of State-owned Shares of Public Joint-Stock Companies.

         In 2002-2003, BEA recommendations were taken into account in materials of the Ministry of
Property Relations aimed at broadening the processes of corporatization of unitary enterprises, ensuring a
stronger government control of their activities, and in drafting a new law on privatization. BEA proposals
have influenced the position taken by the executive authorities in regulating the activities of holding
companies. In particular, the arguments proposed by BEA experts were used in discussion of the draft Law
On Holdings, which eventually resulted in removing the draft law from discussion at the Duma. BEA
recommendations were also used in the following materials and documents:

o        Federal Targeted Program "Reform of the Defense and Industrial Complex"

o        Decree of the President of the Russian Federation On Measures to insure concentration and
rationalization of defense production in the Russian Federation # 1768 of 23 October 2000.

Social policy

         BEA proposals on the means of enhancing efficiency of active programs in the labor market were



                                                    - 19 -

included into the Federal Targeted Social Development Program for 1998-2000 by the Ministry of Labor
(# 828 dated 24 June 1998). The BEA recommendations on the need to toughen the criteria for registration
of jobless and allocation of unemployment benefits, as well as on causes and consequences of
disproportions in financing the labor market policy in the Russian regions were used to develop
amendments to the Unemployed Registration Procedure # 1230 of 5 November 1999, and in the Resolution
on Organization of Public Works # 1247 of 12 November 1999. BEA proposals were used to draft
amendments to the Law On Employment in the Russian Federation # 175-FZ of 17 July 1999. BEA
recommendations were also reflected in the Program On Facilitating Employment (# 659 of 22 June 1999).
BEA proposals were also used to draft amendments to the Law On Employment of the Population of the
Russian Federation (Federal Law # 122 of 22.08.2004), which became effective as of January 1, 2005.
This included introduction of a significantly differentiated eligibility for unemployment benefits, as well as
changes in their size and duration of payment depending on the reason of leaving the job.

        BEA research contributed to a document "Monitoring Social and Labor Areas" put together by the
Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation in 2004. BEA recommendations
were also used by this Ministry in developing the Program of Job Promotion for employees laid off in the
course of the iron and steel industry restructuring.

        BEA recommendations were used for drafting Resolution of the Government of the Russian
Federation On Federal Targeted Program of Social Support to the Disabled # 36 0f 14 January 2000. BEA
proposals contributed to amendments into the Law On Social Protection of the Disabled in the Russian
Federation, and the Law On Employment in the Russian. BEA recommendation of streamlining benefits to
the disabled was Partially reflected in amendments to Law on Veterans introduced by Federal Laws # 176
of 24.12.2002 and # 186-FZ of 23.12.2003.

        A number of proposals were implemented in Federal Law On Amending Legislative Acts of the
Russian Federation and recognizing invalid certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation # 122-FZ
(known as Law on Monetization of Benefits). BEA proposals were reflected in the Law On Mandatory
Medical Insurance of 1999. BEA recommendations were used to draft Resolution On Tariffs of Insurance
Contributions to the RF Pension Fund, RF Social Insurance Fund, RF State Employment Fund and
mandatory medical insurance funds.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(Part A)    Bureau of Economic Analysis         Annual Economic reports are published on       Fully completed. Russia's Economic Policy
publishes a Report on Economic Policy in        the annual basis.                              Surveys were published for 1997, 1998,
Russia on an annual basis.                                                                     1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003.
(Part B) Responses received from the client References and comments from the                   In accordance with revisions in the BEA
agencies for analytical projects positively     customers on the analytical projects carried   Operations Manual introduced by the BEA
assess output in terms of relevance and         out at their request contain positive          Management Board, starting in 2001 the BEA
quality and confirm how this output would be assessments of the results obtained ­ judged customers (government agencies) had been
used by the client agencies.                    from their significance and quality ­ and      obliged to provide references on all requested
                                                descriptions of the further use of the results BEA studies. Consultants who were involved
                                                by the customers.                              in research were not paid for their work
                                                                                               unless there was a positive assessment from
                                                                                               the customer. Sample letters are presented in
                                                                                               Section 10 of the ICR.
(Part C) Goskomstat will complete               Component C implementation completion          Fully completed. All sub-components have
improvements in the following statistical       report has been prepared and confirms that     met the objectives, as confirmed by the
areas by the end of the years designated:       the component has reached the set              Component C implementation completion
                                                objectives.                                    report (See Annex 7 for details).
- input-output analysis by year two;
- the household survey by year three;
- the National Accounts by year four.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(Part A, i) Government of Russia requests       GOR requests from BEA and receives not         Fully completed.The number of analytical
and receives from the BEA not less than 10      less than 10 quick-response notes a year.      notes provided to customers was 65 in 1998,
quick-response notes a year.                                                                   26 in 1999, 33 in 2000, 32 in 2001, 15 in
                                                                                               2002, 16 in 2003, and 22 in 2004.
(Part A, ii) Government of Russia requests      In 2003, the Government of the Russian         Fully completed. In 2003, 23 comprehensive
and receives at least 8 medium-term policy      Federation is expected to request and receive studies were conducted at the request of the
studies in 2003 and 10 medium-term policy       a minimum of 8 research papers on mid-term government agencies. In 2004, 14 studies
studies in 2004.                                economic policy.                               were conducted at the request of the
                                                                                               government.
(Part A, iii) Share of BEA policy studies and The share of BEA-conducted economic              Fully completed. 32 books and 64 bulletins
policy reports requested for publication by the policy studies and the share of BEA-prepared were published by the BEA over the course
client agencies as a percentage of total        analytical documents banned for publishing     of the Project implementation, which makes
number of policy studies and policy reports     by the customer in the total number of         one-third of the total number of the BEA
prepared. (for monitoring purposes only)        studies conducted and documents written.       analytical products (300).
(Part B i) Annually, the Academic Council       The Academic Council reviews the works         Fully completed. The BEA Academic
undertakes review of BEA outputs from the       prepared by the BEA, assessing their           Council had continuously assessed the
standpoint of relevance and quality and         significance and quality, and submits its      quality of research carried out by the BEA,
provides its report to the BEA and the World evaluation reports to the BEA and the World       and regularly submitted its evaluation reports
Bank. The results of the previous evaluation    Bank.                                          to the BEA Management Board, and the
are incorporated into the next output                                                          Bank. There was no assessment for 2004;
                                                                                               however the BEA, at its own expense,
                                                                                               prepared a book, which summarized lessons
                                                                                               the Project experience. The book was
                                                                                               discussed at the Academic Council meeting
                                                                                               in April 2005, and submitted to the Bank. At
                                                                                               that same meeting, the Academic Council
                                                                                               assessed the quality of the BEA's work
                                                                                               throughout the implementation of the Project,
                                                                                               and rated it satisfactory.
(Part B, ii) Budget financing and cost          By the middle of 2004, 40 per cent of the      Since May 2003, the Government of the
recovery cover 40 percent of BEA operating      BEA's operational costs are financed from      Russian Federation has been effectively
costs by mid-2003                               the budget and profit-making operations.       financing 40% of the BEA's operating costs
                                                                                               through funds allocated to the BEA on a
                                                                                               tender basis.




                                                                    - 21 -

(Part B, iii) The BEA competes for, wins   In 2004, the BEA participated in contests and In 2004, the BEA carried out studies under 2
and executes not less than 4 research      biddings, was requested to conduct and        contracts for the Ministry of Economic
assignments financed from sources other    fulfilled no less than 4 studies, financed    Development and Trade of the Russian
than Loan proceeds and co-financing in 2004otherwise than from the Loan or from the      Federation, and 2 commercial contracts
                                           co-financing funds provided by the            (Assessment of the Competitive Environment
                                           Government of the Russian Federation as       on the Market for Electronic Access to Legal
                                           per the Loan Agreement.                       Information, and Preparation of Sections of a
                                                                                         Report "A Retrospective Analysis of the
                                                                                         Economic Policy and Development of
                                                                                         Samarskaya Oblast (1991 ­ 2003)").

1End of project




                                                               - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Policy Studies                                                    9.97               8.01            0.8
Bureau of Economic Analysis                                      16.06              10.25            0.6
Improvement of National Accounts (Goskomstat)                     6.44               5.35            0.8
PPF Refinancing                                                   1.50               1.33            0.9

Total Baseline Cost                                              33.97              24.94
 Price Contingencies                                              2.81
                          Total Project Costs                    36.78              24.94
                   Total Financing Required                      36.78              24.94
Notes: (i) Totals may not sum up due to rounding; (ii) Estimated project costs are quoted from
Memorandum of the President.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                  2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00            0.00             0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            2.05             1.24            0.17             0.75         4.21
                                   (1.58)           (0.77)           (0.12)          (0.00)       (2.47)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00            11.09            0.00        11.09
(Technical Assistance)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (8.56)          (0.00)       (8.56)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00             0.00            0.00             16.66       16.66
(Recurrent Costs)                  (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (7.11)       (7.11)
5. Training                         0.00             0.00            3.31             0.00         3.31
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (2.94)          (0.00)       (2.94)
6. PPF                              0.00             0.00            1.50             0.00         1.50
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (1.50)          (0.00)       (1.50)
   Total                            2.05             1.24            16.07            17.41       36.77
                                   (1.58)           (0.77)          (13.12)          (7.11)      (22.58)
Notes: (i) Totals may not sum up due to rounding; (ii) Estimated project costs are quoted from
Memorandum of the President.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                  2          N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00            0.12            0.00         0.12
                                   (0.00)           (0.05)          (0.10)           (0.00)      (0.15)
2. Goods                            3.17             0.00            0.65            0.00         3.82
                                   (2.39)           (0.00)          (0.52)           (0.00)      (2.91)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00            8.79            0.00         8.79



                                                - 23 -

   (Technical Assistance)                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.67)            (0.00)           (8.67)
   4. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             10.50            10.50
   (Recurrent Costs)                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (9.02)           (9.02)
   5. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.38             0.00              0.38
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.36)            (0.00)           (0.36)
   6. PPF                                  0.00               0.00              1.33             0.00              1.33
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.25)            (0.00)           (1.25)
       Total                               3.17               0.00             11.27             10.50            24.94
                                          (2.39)             (0.05)           (10.90)            (9.02)           (22.36)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Policy Studies                 8.86         1.49                     7.84         0.17                  88.5      11.4
Bureau of Economic             8.64         9.24                     8.70         1.55                  100.7     16.8
Analysis
National Accounts              3.60         2.99                     4.52         0.83                  125.6     27.8
(Goskomstat)
PPF                            1.46         0.32                     1.25         0.08                  85.6      25.0
TOTAL                         22.56        14.04                    22.31         2.63                  98.9      18.7

  Note: Appraisal Estimate quoted from Appendix 5 to the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the
  President (February 24, 1997). Figures may not sum up due to rounding.




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/01/1996 -              6    Task Manager (1), Research          S               S
              04/05/1996                     Administrator(1),Procurement
                                             Specialist(1), Economist(1),
                                             Sr.HR Specialist(1), Project
                                             Assistant(1)
              06/10/1996 -              7    Task Manager(1), Research           S               S
              06/25/1996                     Administrator(!),Procurement
                                             Specialist(1), Economist(3),
                                             Project Assistant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/18/1996                6    Task Manager (1),                   S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist(1),
                                             Economist(2), Legal Counsel
                                             (1), Project Assistant (1)
              11/17/1996 -              1    Research Administrator(1)           S               S
              11/21/1996
              05/20/1997 -              4    Task Manager (1), Project           S               S
              06/02/1997                     Assistant (1), Economist (2),
                                             Disbursement (1)

 Supervision

              01/20/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1); CPPR
                                             SUPERVISION (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              01/20/1999                4    TASK LEADER (1);                    S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS SUPERVISION
                                             (1)
              12/15/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CPPR SUPERVISION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
              06/13/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CPPR SUPERVISION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                                             PROJECT COORDINATOR (1)
              05/22/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT COORDINATOR (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/17/2003                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S



                                              - 26 -

                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                    PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
                                                    (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    MANAGEMENT (1); SOE
                                                    REVIEW (1)
               03/03/2004                      2    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               11/04/2004                      2    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)


 ICR
               05/15/2005                      2     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                                     OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                     (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       35                         110.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           140                         460.4
  Supervision                                     156                         410.7
  ICR                                              10                           14.0
  Total                                           341                         995.1
Total costs (including labor costs, travel, etc.) are presented.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Thank you letter Letter from Mr. Ignatiev re: materials prepared by the Bureau of Economic Analysis
  on the problem of the balance of payments in transfer rubles between the USSR and the GDR for the
  Ministry of Finance
l Letter from Mr. Dmitriev re: Policy Note "An Analysis of Comparative Costs, Related to the
  Implementation of the Standards Stipulated in Labor Legislation", prepared by Bureau of Economic
  Analysis for the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
l Letter from Mr. Shatalov re: "Development of Proposals for the Introduction of Changes in the Tax
  Legislation", prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis for the Ministry of Finance
l Review of the Deputy Minister of Development and Trade re Policy Note on Green Gases Emission
l Letter from Mr. Svinarenko re "An Analysis of the Current Situation in and the Prospects for the Areas
  of the Development of the Civil Aviation Sector", prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis for the
  Ministry of Industries and Science
l Letter from the Federal Service for Financial and Budget Supervision re "Identifying the Main Areas
  for Finance and Budget Control and Supervision under Targeted and Program-Based Budget Planning,
  as in Accordance with the Established Government Policy Priorities, Including Through Delimitation of
  Powers between the Federal Center and the Regions", prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis
l Letter from Mr. Dubinin re: "Global Experience in Restructuring Banking Systems", prepared by
  Bureau of Economic Analysis for the
l Letter from Mr. Sinelin re: "Industry Structure of the Industrial Sector as a Factor for and a Limitation
  to Mid-Term Economic Growth", prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis for the Government of the
  RF
l Letter from Mr. Volokitin re "Elaborating a Governmental Policy Concept for the Development of the
  Information Technologies Market" , prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis for the Ministry of
  Communications and Information Technologies
l Letter from Mr. Stepashin on "The Problems of the Development of the Gas Industry in the Russian
  Federation and the Government's Regulation Strategy for the Industry", prepared by Bureau of
  Economic Analysis for the Accounts Chamber
l Letter from Mr. Reus on "Developing Concepts and Programs for Technical Legislation in Russia,
  prepared by Bureau of Economic Analysis for the Ministry of Industry and Energy
Documents are attached:




                                                 - 30 -

- 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Implementation Report for Part C of the Project




                                       - 32 -

- 33 -

