Report No. PIC3438
Project Name                   Russia-Bureau of Economic Analysis      ro) N
Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Public Sector Management
Project ID                     RUPA44200
Borrower                       Government of the Russian Federation
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Economy
19 Noviy Arbat Street
Moscow 1030
Russian Federation
contact: Mr. Sergei A. Vasiliev, Deputy
Minister
phone: (7-095) 203-8117 / 203-8109
fax: (7-095) 203-7482
Date this PID Prepared         December 16, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      March 5, 1996
Projected Appraised            October, 1996
Projected Board Date           May, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Weak Capacity for Economic Policymaking.   Economic management
capacity has been steadily improving in Russia since 1992, but is still
very weak compared to like-sized economies. Capacity constraints in
economic analysis are becoming acute as the reform agenda grows more
complex. The Government of Russia (GOR) succeeded in reducing consumer
price inflation by reducing the fiscal deficit. With the most evident
deficit reduction measures already taken, the only viable alternative to
reduce inflation further and consolidate the stabilization process is to
implement a more extensive structural reform program. Development and
implementation of such an economic reform program, however, is hampered
by shortcomings in institutions providing policy advice. This is the
result of two issues:
I    The current government environment (civil service salaries,
incentives for quality, etc.) does not attract and retain staff
with the required skills within the government and, hence, fails to
sustain needed analytic capacity. There is consequently a shortage
of qualified economists in Government economic units and in budget-
supported economic research institutes.
I    Due to the evolving institutional setting the policy analysis
currently provided to Government lacks a cross-sectoral focus, is
based on National Accounts with incomplete coverage of key
macroeconomic data, and tends to lack analytical objectivity.
Objectives



2.   The principal development objective of the project is to build
institutional capacity for sound economic analysis in support of market-
oriented and structural reforms. To meet this objective, the project
has three sub-goals:
a.   to increase the quantity and quality of cross-sectoral
economic policy studies for use by Government;
b.   to establish a Bureau of Economic Analysis outside of
Government but accountable to it, to provide an objective, economy-
wide perspective in assessing economic policy options; and
c.   to strengthen the National Accounts as the basis for sound
economic analysis.
Project Description
3.   The project will finance three components: (i) Policy Studies; (ii)
Bureau of Economic Analysis; and (iii) Improvement of National Accounts.
4.   Policy Studies (US$11.1 million). Development and implementation
of the Government's structural reform agenda will require in-depth
analyses from an economy-wide perspective, taking into account the
inter-relationships among industries, taxpayers and consumers. To this
end, the BEA would manage the budget for production of a number of
outputs, some of which may be produced in collaboration with other
agencies or institutes, but with the BEA maintaining quality control.
The most important output would be medium-term policy studies.
Financing would be provided for local consultants, data requirements
such as surveys, and if necessary, international experts to assist in
the completion of each study, which is expected to take approximately
three months. These studies will be focused on high-priority themes
(for example, taxation or pension reform) that are expected to lay the
basis for significant policy decisions that are likely to impact savings
and investment decisions and fiscal revenues and expenditures. These
studies would be the BEA's core product, consuming approximately 50
percent of its time. The themes chosen for the studies would provide
the central chapters of the annual report on the state of the economy,
which would also discuss economic trends and conditions based on the
quarterly economic indicators produced by the BEA. Production of the
annual report and quarterly indicators are expected to consume another
percent of the BEA's time.    The BEA will also need flexibility to
respond to requests from senior officials on developments in the policy
environment. For this purpose, approximately percent of the BEA's time
is expected to be spent producing quick-response policy notes. To
support all these initiatives, which would be produced in cooperation
with Goskomstat and core economic ministries, the BEA will need basic
databases. Financing was based on unit cost estimates combining the
approximate consultant time, data requirements and technical assistance,
and training or study tours needed to deliver each product.
5.   The Board of Directors would agree annually to a work program
comprising these four outputs.    The work program themes would be
developed after assessing the needs of client agencies and establishing
priorities in light of the sectoral and economic reform agenda. Using
- 2-



this approach, the Board of Directors has developed an indicative first
year work program and terms of reference for the first five policy
studies. A monitoring and evaluation process, to provide quality
control of BEA outputs, will be included both in the Bank's Project
Agreement with the BEA and in the Operations Manual.
6.   The work program should contribute to furthering market-economy and
structural reforms in Russia. Within this objective, the three
principles guiding the selection and orientation of BEA's analysis will
be growth, efficiency and equity. Using these principles, the Board of
Directors has identified the highest priorities for studies in the
medium-term as being in public finance, social policy and growth
strategies. Topics would be selected after the completion of an
overview paper that identifies the major problems amenable to policy
reform and assigns priorities to the analysis of each problem.
Priorities for analysis will be determined by rough estimates of: (i)
the pay-off from policy reform; (ii) the costs of reform; and (iii) the
likely speed or realizable schedule of policy reform. The assignment of
priorities will be based mainly on economic costs and benefits, although
at times judgments about the political feasibility of reform will be
needed. High priorities for analysis will be those that produce large
net benefits quickly.
7.   Bureau of Economic Analysis (US$17.8 million). This component
would finance the technical and human resource base needed to increase
capacity for economic policy analysis both in the BEA and in the core
economic ministries. These expenditures would include: (i) computer and
information technology needed for the BEA's statistical analysis and for
linkages with Goskomstat, the core economic ministries, and Russian and
international academic institutes. Included in this activity would be
development of a library and on-line databases to facilitate the
research needs of its staff and consultants; (ii) training, study tours
and fellowships both for BEA staff and for government staff
participating in policy studies, to develop analytic skills based on
modern, market-based economics in core economic agencies; and (iii)
office furnishings to establish the BEA's premises. The incremental
recurrent costs, to be financed on a declining basis, would include
managerial and support staff salaries, internal communications (meetings
of the Boards of Trustees and Directors and Academic Council),
publications, rent and utilities.
8.   The BEA component would also include the budget of the External
Outreach Program, which will produce and distribute the annual report
and quarterly economic indicators and promote exchanges between the BEA
and academic institutes, both in Russia and abroad, by means of
conferences, seminars, and twinning arrangements. The purpose of the
External Outreach Program will be to further cooperation within Russia
and internationally on economic policy issues in the BEA's work program.
9.   Improvement of National Accounts (US$6.6 million). The main
economic policy tools (fiscal, monetary, and exchange rates) of a market
economy cannot be applied on a sound basis to promote growth with
stability unless a good set of national accounts and data on other
macroeconomic variables are available. Goskomostat, the state
statistical agency, has initiated several measures to adjust to the data
- 3-



needs of a market economy and to compile GDP estimates through the
production and expenditure approaches based on the 1993 System of
National Accounts (SNA). Despite notable progress both in Goskomstat
and by other data-collecting agencies, additional work is needed to
accelerate the development of an integrated framework of national
accounts. The component would make a significant contribution to this
objective by financing computer equipment, training and technical
assistance needed to improve the quality of economic statistics by
improving data collection, upgrading the information base and by
refining the methodology of computations. The work program would follow
the recommendations in Russian Federation: Report on the National
Accounts, produced in October 1995 by a Joint Team including Russian
agencies, led by Goskomstat, and international experts, led by the World
Bank.
Financing
10. The total project cost is roughly estimated at US$35.4 million, of
which the Bank would finance $21.3 million and the Goverment of Russia
the remainder. Grant financing is presently being sought for: (i)
educational fellowships for advanced training in economics and policy
analysis; (ii) technical experts in market-oriented and sectoral reforms
(specific topics to be provided on request); (iii) study tours and
exchanges with economic analysis and statistical agencies.
Project Implementation
11. The project would be implemented by the BEA, which has been formed
as a non-commercial foundation reporting to the First Deputy Prime
Minister for Economy. The Minister of Economy and Bank Alternate
Governor was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. A Board of
Trustees chaired by the First DPM for Economy was also designated. A
Director General is designated and must be confirmed by the new
Government. The BEA is registered as a legal entity. Candidates for
the Academic Council, to be comprised of eminent economists, both
Russian and foreign, are being invited to participate. The Academic
Council will provide quality control for staff appointments and BEA
outputs. A management consultant is completing the Operations Manual
and a Manager of Administration is being recruited to plan other start-
up activities. Staff of a Project Start-up Unit are also being hired,
including a procurement specialist. The unit will be operational
shortly. Office space has been located.
Sustainability
12. Three project features will help sustain capacity in economic
policy analysis once the loan closes. First, education and on-the-job
training of BEA staff, consultants and civil servants through
fellowships and participation in BEA studies will increase the quality
of policy analysis undertaken by economic agencies such as the
Ministries of Finance and Economy. Second, a chargeback mechanism
requiring a contribution by ministries using the Bureau's services will
serve as a market test and, if demand remains strong, provide financial
sustainability. Third, the Bureau's External Outreach program will
build ties with eminent organizations in Russia and internationally,
- 4 -



which will continue to stimulate innovative economic thinking and
analytical techniques.
Lessons from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
13. The fluid institutional and political environment in Russia makes
it particularly important to ensure strong ownership of project
objectives by a broad spectrum of government and institutional actors.
This was the primary lesson from recent capacity-building projects in
Russia. During project identification, core economic ministries and
institutes participated in a special "brainstorming session" on design
issues. A survey of prominent stakeholders on detailed project design
issues was also undertaken to ensure broad consensus for project
objectives.
14. The Bank has been involved in promoting research networks and
economic policy institutes in a number of countries. It supported the
Korea Development Institute, the Thai Development and Research
Institute, and economic research networks in the Middle East, Latin
America and Africa. However, these predominantly involved grant
resources coordinated from a number of donors rather than loan
financing, as in the proposed project. In other countries, the Bank has
strengthened economic management capacity with a specific issue focus,
including privatization, fiscal management, and deregulation. In this
project, the focus is on institutional development rather than on a
specific issue orientation.
15. Related International Experience. Economic policy institutes have
flourished internationally in the last fifty years. Although these
institutes differ greatly from one country to the next in terms of their
size, modus operandi, and institutional arrangements, some key factors
distinguish effective institutes. The central factor determining
success is that the research and policy advice of the institute is
viewed as a national priority. Other factors include:
association with a powerful government agency while remaining
outside the formal bureaucracy;
direct access to/influence on key policymakers;
secure sources of financing;
staff composed of a small but elite group of top academics in
the economics field;
attractive and competitive salaries to retain top academics;
and
a clear mandate to conduct economic research and formulate
policy in the best interests of the national economy as a
whole.
The project design seeks to incorporate all of these lessons.
Project Benefits
16.   The principal project benefit in the short term will be the
preparation of detailed action plans in support of the Government's
medium-term structural reform agenda. These would result from the
Bureau's ability'based on access to the necessary skills, data, and
collaboration with economic economic agencies'to provide and mobilize
- 5 -



high-quality economic policy advice directly to decision-makers in
Government, and to help integrate macroeconomic and welfare
considerations into sectoral and economy-wide reform agendas. Without
the project, the lack of systematic and well-coordinated economic
analysis, especially in the design and implementation of structural
reforms, is likely to persist.
17. As a result of the project, the Government is expected to retain
and enhance the capacity in governmental institutions for analytic
economic work. The fellowships/training in mainstream economics and
policy analysis financed by the project, as well as increased experience
in coordinating policy development across ministries, will lay the basis
for sustainable improvements in Government capacity once the loan
closes.   Therefore,   a principal benefit in the medium-term will be
sounder economic analysis based on more reliable National Accounts and
improved capacity for cross-sectoral analysis.
Project Risks
18. While accountability to Government is important to increase the
Bureau's impact, too close an association can undermine its analytic
objectivity. To mitigate the risk that the Bureau's recommendations
could become politicized, the present governance structure combines non-
governmental and governmental representatives, and the latter include
both senior Government levels (the First Deputy Prime Minister) with
accountability to economic ministries (which are technically not part of
Government). However, the tension between objectivity and
accountability cannot be removed entirely by the project design.
19. Another risk is the lack of a tradition of coordination and
information-sharing across layers of Government and among economic
agencies, which is critical for cross-sectoral analysis. The governance
structure of the Bureau has been designed to reduce the risk of
insularity by giving authority to a broader group of stakeholders
(economic agencies and institutes) who would both direct the Bureau and
be its primary clients.
20. Finally, the staff recruitment process may not be sufficiently
competitive to meet the quality standards required to maintain the BEA
as a center of excellence. Technical criteria for each staff position
have been developed. These would be monitored through observance of
compliance with the Bank's procurement process (competitive selection)
and by the quality control function of the Academic Council, which will
review requirements for staff qualifications as well as candidates for
individual positions.
Contact Point:      Marsha McGraw-Olive, Task Manager, EC3C2
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
phone: (202) 473-7331
fax: (202) 477-3288
- 6-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 7 -



