Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4185 RU
Project Agreement
(Bureau of Economic Analysis Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Dated July 18, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4185 RU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (BEA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Russian 
Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to twenty two million six hundred thousand Dollars 
($22,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the BEA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
By a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
BEA, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to the BEA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the BEA, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The BEA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i) 
shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
and financial practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project; and
(ii) 
assist, as needed, Goskomstat in respect of procurement and 
disbursement for 
Part C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the BEA shall otherwise agree, the BEA shall carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual and the 
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The BEA shall carry out the obliga\1ftions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the BEA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the BEA, a plan for the 
future operation of  Parts A and B of 
the Project;
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the BEA on 
said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments 
thereon.
Section 2.04. The BEA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the BEA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The BEA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by the BEA of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
The BEA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
Page  3
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the BEA of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the BEA
Section 3.01. The BEA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices and the Operations Manual 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The BEA shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, and financial 
practices.
Section 3.03. The BEA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. The BEA shall not amend the Operations Manual, or waive any 
provision thereof, unless such amendment or waiver is acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The BEA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The BEA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the BEA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the BEA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For BEA:
4, Maly Gnezdnikovsky pereulok
103009 Moscow
Russia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the BEA may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and the BEA shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
Schedule
Page  5
Implementation Schedule
I.
Organization and Management of the BEA
1.
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the BEA shall, at all times, employ a Director General, a Deputy Director General, a 
Chief Accountant and a Scientific Secretary, whose qualifications and experience shall 
be acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
By December 1 of each year starting in 1998, the BEA shall prepare its 
organization and staffing plan for the following year, acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
Annually no later than December 1, the BEA shall prepare its work program for 
the next following year which shall take into due consideration the Borrower’s 
medium-term economic and structural reform priorities.
II.
Budget of  the BEA
1.
By December 1 of each year, the BEA shall submit to the Bank for review the 
proposed budget and financing plan of the BEA in such detail as the Bank should 
reasonably request; such budget and financing plan to identify the expenditures to be 
financed by the Bank and the Borrower, respectively, during the following year.
2.
By December 31 of each year, the BEA shall submit to the Bank its final budget 
and financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank.
III.
Mid Term Review and Performance
The BEA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and (c)
review with the Bank, by 
September 30, 2000 or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
