 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14853

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 12/02/2015

               Country: Colombia
             Project ID: P099139                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Strengthening Public         Project Costs (US$M):                     15.8                15.8
                         Information,
                         Monitoring, Evaluation
                         For
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       8.5                 8.5
      Sector Board:      Poverty Reduction           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                12/12/2008
                                                             Closing Date:             03/15/2014         12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (96%); Sub-national government administration (4%)
         Theme(s):        Managing for development results (40%); Poverty strategy; analysis and monitoring (20%);
                          Other public sector governance (20%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                          procurement (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of June 19, 2008 (p. 8) states that the Project Development Objective
    (PDO) was “to strengthen the government’s M&E system so that it provides quality information to be used for
    program and policy design by the Inter-Sectoral Committee for Evaluation and Management for Results (IEC), for
    social accountability by Presidencia, and for investment planning by Department of National Planning (DNP).”

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 19, 2008 (p. 5), the objective of the project was “to assist the
    Borrower in strengthening its monitoring and evaluation system to ensure the availability and production of quality
    of information pertinent to improving the Borrower's: (i) program and policy design by IEC and government
    entities; (ii) social accountability by the Office of the President; (iii) investment planning by DNP; and (iv)
    monitoring and evaluation capabilities, at the local and regional levels."

    On July 16, 2012, the project was restructured and the PDO was adapted to reflect a change in institutional
    responsibilities regarding the approval of the evaluation agenda. The new PDO was “to assist the Government in
    strengthening its monitoring and evaluation system to ensure the availability and production of quality of
    information pertinent to improving the Borrower’s: (i) program and policy design by the National Council for
    Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) and Government entities; (ii) social accountability by the Office of the
    President; (iii) investment planning by DNP; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation capabilities, at the local and
    regional levels."

    During the project restructuring, the PDO was modified only to reflect a change in implementing responsibilities,
    and the Results Framework was adapted. Neither the substance of the objectives nor key outcome targets
    changed, and therefore a split rating is not warranted.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/16/2012

c. Components:

    According to the PAD (p. 9), the project consisted of four components:

    Component 1: Institutional strengthening for M &E of public investment projects at the national and sub -national
    level (appraisal estimate US $0.8 million, actual US$0.6 million, 75% of appraisal estimate ): This component
    was to assist the strengthening of technical and institutional capacity within the Department of National Planning
    (DNP) for the systematic collection and monitoring of spending on the regions in DNP, and to support the design
    of methodologies and guidelines for policy formulation oriented to project execution and M&E needs at the
    national and regional levels.

    Component 2: Consolidate and expand the use of the national M &E system (appraisal estimate US $4.1 million,
    actual US$4.8 million, 117% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to support: (i) the definition of sector
    inventories of programs and evaluation agendas in key central ministries and sector entities; (ii) effectiveness of
    the technical secretariat for the system by incorporating new, key activities; (iii) partial funding of the central
    evaluation agenda; and (iv) improvement of the quality and relevance of the central M&E system through the
    development of tools and standards and capacity building.

    Component 3: Support the development of local and regional M &E systems (appraisal estimate US $0.4 million,
    actual US$1.0 million, 250% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to support: (i) strengthening the M&E
    systems in Pasto and Medellin and their use for performance budgeting decisions at the municipal level; (ii)
    setting the basis for replication of these pilots in other municipalities; (iii) developing basic management tools in
    Chocó; and (iv) harmonizing M&E concepts between the central and local government.

    Component 4: Establish the mechanisms to improve quality and relevance of public information (US$1.9
    million, actual US$1.2 million, 63% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to support: i) improving the
    institutional and regulatory frameworks, including strengthening of key actors of the information process such as
    the National Statistical Office (DANE); (ii) implementing strategies and methodologies to modernize the
    information quality environment; (iii) systematically implementing external audits and standards for the
    information process.

    At the restructuring on June 20, 2012, several components were adapted to reflect new strategic priorities:

    Component 2: Consolidate and expand the use of the national M &E system: Activities related to the
    improvement of the functioning of the IEC and its technical secretariat, the Directorate for the Evaluation of Public
    Policy (DEPP), were dropped, as the IEC had not been operational, and approving the evaluation agenda
    became the responsibility of CONPES. Activities were added to support the development and piloting of an open
    data platform with four databases of the DNP.

    Component 3: Support the development of local and regional M &E systems: New activities were added to
    support the development of the National System of Evaluation of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA)
    Territorial for the expansion and mainstreaming of M&E to departments and municipalities.

    Component 4: Establish the mechanisms to improve quality and relevance of public information : Activities to
    support the National Statistical Office (DANE) were dropped, and activities were added to complement the
    evaluation of public information management and use its findings to prepare a national policy on open data to be
    approved by CONPES.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project cost: The project's estimated and actual total cost was US$15.8 million.

    Financing: The project was financed by a US$8.5 million IBRD loan that was completely disbursed.

    Borrower Contribution : The borrower’s planned and actual contribution was US$7.3 million.
   Dates: The project was restructured three times:

        On December 12, 2009, the project was restructured to reallocate proceeds among loan categories and
         expand the definition of “training” in the Loan Agreement.
        On June 20, 2012, the project was restructured to: i) modify the PDO; ii) make modifications to components
         1, 3 and 4 (as discussed in section 2c above); iii) revise the Results Framework, dropping and adding PDO
         and intermediate outcome indicators to simplify and enhance consistency between project documents and
         reflect modifications of components; and iv) adapt the disbursement table.
        On November 8, 2013, the project was restructured to: i) extend the closing date from March 15, 2014 to
         December 31, 2014 to complete all planned evaluations needed as input for the next administration's
         National Development Plan (PND); and ii) reallocate resources between disbursement categories and
         components to support an expanded evaluation agenda.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: In 1994, the government of Colombia created the National System of Evaluation of Public Sector
   Performance (SINERGIA), an M&E system covering the entire government. SINERGIA experienced several
   challenges over the years but became an important point on the government’s agenda again in the early 2000s.
   Despite SINGERIA having become one of the strongest M&E systems in Latin America, the government
   identified remaining challenges: i) lack of a single, clear conceptual framework; ii) lack of clarity of roles and
   responsibilities of the ministries and agencies involved in the M&E system; iii) lack of clear linkages between
   planning, budgeting, and evaluation; and iv) issues with the availability, frequency, and quality of data. The
   objectives are in line with Colombia's National Development Plan (2014-2018) "All for a new country; peace,
   equality and education," which includes two main innovations, stronger focus on results and an operationalized
   territorial dimension.

   The original and revised objectives of the project were in line with two of the three pillars of the Bank’s Country
   Assistance Strategy at appraisal (FY03-FY07). The project was expected to contribute to the pillar “building
   quality government” through a stronger focus on performance, leading to more efficient and effective use of
   resources and increasing government accountability, and the pillar “sharing the fruits of growth” through a more
   egalitarian allocation of resources across geographical regions and populations. The objectives are also in line
   with the Country Partnership Strategy (FY12-FY16) at closing, which focuses on improving monitoring systems in
   two of its three engagement areas.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The Bank used horizontal Adaptable Program Lending under the Statistical Development
   (STATCAP) umbrella for this project. The STATCAP aimed to improve country statistical capacity through a
   sector-wide approach, which was well suited for Colombia’s efforts to develop a whole-of-country M&E system.
   The selection of project activities was appropriate for achieving its objectives. Activities to strengthen Colombia's
   M&E system included the provision of technical assistance to build M&E capacity within the DNP, consolidate
   and expand the use of the national M&E system, develop local and regional M&E systems in Pasto and Medellin
   to serve as a pilot for other municipalities, and strengthen institutional and regulatory frameworks to improve the
   quality of public information.

   During the project restructuring in 2012, several activities under components 2, 3, and 4 were adapted to reflect
   new strategic priorities such as the development and piloting of an open data platform with four databases of the
   DNP, the implementation of SINGERIA Territorial, and the development of a national policy for open data. For
   example, under component 2, activities related to the IEC were dropped since IEC was no longer operational,
   new activities to support the development of SINGERIA Territorial were added under component 3, and a new
   policy on open data was prepared under component 4, all of which would contribute to achieving the project’s
   revised objectives.

   The potential disruption during the change of administration in August 2010 was identified as a relevant
   exogenous factor during project preparation. The project design included a relevant mitigation effort and set up
   an agreement with the government to put all the necessary legal and institutional arrangements to guarantee the
   continuation of main project activities into the new administration.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
1)   Ensure the availability /production of information : Substantial

Outputs:

    Changes in data collection instruments to measure poverty were made by the National Statistics Office.
    The web platform of the National Statistics Office was improved to make it more user-friendly and allow for
     easier access to data.
    31 dashboards, including one for the president’s office, six cross-sectoral, and 24 sectoral, were developed
     to report information on progress in different thematic areas and programs.
    The number of programs evaluated increased from 24 in 2008 to 108 in 2014. Also, the scope of the
     evaluation agenda increased from two sectors in 2008 to 16 sectors in 2014.
    The “Radar” initiative was developed under SINERGIA Evaluations. This new initiative compiles evaluations
     performed by public and non-public entities. The SINERGIA Evaluation website currently includes 171
     evaluations.
    Evaluation results were actively disseminated to enhance public awareness.

Outcomes:

    DNP collected information following strict protocols for data quality, reliability and timeliness on 58% of
     national spending in 2008, increasing to 68.8% of national spending made in regions in 2011, achieving the
     target of 60%.
    The number of programs evaluated increased from 24 to 70 between 2008 and 2011, surpassing the target
     of a 50% increase.
    The number of indicators under SINERGIA monitoring increased from 500 indicators in 2007 to 1,100
     indicators in 2014. This indicator did not have a target.
    The measurement of indicators every six months or more often increased from 71% of indicators for the
     National Development Plan (NDP) 2006-2010, to 83% for the NDP 2010-2014. This indicator did not have a
     target. Progress towards the achievement of NDP targets is publicly available on the SINERGIA monitoring
     website.
    63 of 95 territorial entities that participated in SINGERIA Territorial now have performance dashboards and
     issue monitoring reports on a regular basis.

2)   Ensure the availability/production of quality of information: Substantial

Outputs:

    The managerial capacity of 81% of Chief Information Officers at the ministerial and sectoral level was
     strengthened by 2012, as verified by number of training sessions provided and results summary of those
     trainings, surpassing the target of 50% of Chief Information Officers. The indicator was dropped during the
     2012 restructuring since the National Statistics Office continued these activities under the framework of the
     National Strategic Statistics Plan outside the project.
    As of 2012, 100% of standards for data collection, production, and use were published and disseminated.
     This indicator was dropped during the 2012 restructuring since these activities were continued outside the
     project.
    Data collected under 31 evaluations conducted under the project since 2011 were documented according to
     the Programa Acelerado de Datos - Accelerated Data Program (ADP) standards, achieving the target. ADP
     standards are international standards that aim to strengthen country capacity in producing statistical data
     relevant for policy design, monitoring and evaluation through: i) better documenting, preserving, and
     disseminating existing micro-data; ii) better exploiting existing datasets (quality assessments, further
     analysis); and iii) better strategizing and aligning survey programs and statistical outputs to priority data
     needs.
    Technical assistance was provided to SINERGIA monitoring to strengthen a set of performance indicators
     that measure policy outputs and outcomes identified by the National Development Plan.
    The National Statistics Office Plan, including the reclassification of 1,227 statistical procedures to improve
     information flows and therefore the quality and availability of information, was developed.

Outcomes:

    Presidencia, Hacienda and DNP report satisfaction with the quality of information provided by SINGERIA
     M&E. Leading NGOs and civil society members report higher satisfaction levels in terms of access and
     quality of information on goals monitoring. 84% (SINGERIA monitoring) and 94% (SINGERIA Evaluations)
     of respondents found information provided to be good, very good or excellent. However, the baseline for
     these two indicators was constructed in 2011, and tracking of indicators was discontinued and the indicators
     dropped due to measuring difficulties during the restructuring in 2012. The ICR (datasheet) considers the
     indicators as achieved since the impact evaluation showed substantial improvement in satisfaction among
     institutional users.
    An impact evaluation showed significant improvement in the quality of the SINGERIA Monitoring
     information. The composite qualification (i.e. timeliness, clarity, usefulness, credibility, and relevance)
     increased from 3.3 in 2010 to 3.8 in 2013 (where 1.0 was poor quality and 5.0 was excellent quality).
     Respondents rated the quality of documents produced under SINGERIA Monitoring consistently above 4.0.
    Respondents noted improvement in SINGERIA Evaluation information, with an increase in average
     composite score from 3.5 in 2010 to 4.1 in 2013.

3) Program and policy design by IEC /National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) and
Government entities : Substantial

Outputs relevant to this objective are described under other objectives.

Outcomes:

    The number of visits to SINGERIA Monitoring control panels by government officials increased from 1,706 in
     January 2012 to 12,144 in December 2014, surpassing the target of a 6% increase.
    The number of visits by other government users increased from 11,921 in January 2012 to 68,543 in
     December 2014. This indicator did not have a target.
    The number of evaluations in the approved agenda that reached the design phase increased from 60% in
     2012 to 88.5% in 2014, surpassing the target of 80%.

4) Social accountability by the Office of the President : Substantial

Outputs:

    Reports based on SINERGIA Monitoring results and progress reporting towards the achievement of NDP
     targets are published periodically.
    In 2014, the President visited every line ministry to review progress toward the 2010-2014 NDP using
     SINERGIA Monitoring sector dashboards.

Outcomes:

    The number of visits from citizens to SINERGIA increased from 44,932 in January 2012 to 325, 276 in
     December 2014, surpassing the target of a 13% increase.
    Approximately 23% of SINERGIA Evaluation users report utilizing the information for dissemination
     purposes. This indicator did not have a target.
    Evaluation results from SINERGIA Evaluation are included in the report of the President to Congress.


5) Investment planning by DNP : Substantial

Outputs:

    DNP developed and established the required protocols, procedures, manuals, and applications to support
     the inclusion of regional information in investment project formulation by 2010. DNP also implemented the
     systematic collection of regional data on investment projects.
    DNP issues annually a regionalized budget as well as a multi-year investment plan.
    More stringent mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of DNP recommendations have been
     adopted, including a Recommendation Management Matrix.

Outcomes:

    A review of four programs that were evaluated under SINERGIA Evaluation showed that implementing
     government agencies agreed to implement an average of 59.5% of DNP recommendations, exceeding the
     target of 40%. The ICR does not provide the date of this review..


6) Monitoring and evaluation capabilities , at the local and regional levels : Substantial
    ·Outputs:

        Technical assistance was provided to 95 territorial entities in four areas: i) M&E methodologies; ii)
         information systems; iii) training; and iv) follow-up and verification of the monitoring of regional and local
         development plans.
        Standards for collection and classification of public investment spending by region were developed.A
         Program Based Budgeting (PBB) annex was presented with annual budgets to the municipal councils in
         Medellin and Pasta on a yearly basis, achieving the target.
        Technological systems that integrate financial and physical monitoring of budget were implemented and
         functioning by year 3 of the project in Medellin and Pasto, achieving the target.
        The Directorate for Sustainable Territorial Development (DDTS) and the Directorate for Evaluation of Public
         Policy (DEPP) jointly prepared an annual publication with technical guidelines on M&E practices at the
         territorial level (by years 1 and 2 of the project), achieving the target.
        DDTS incorporated at least 50% of recommendations from the policy and human resource development
         (PHRD) analysis to improve the methodologies for measurement of municipal performance by year 2 of the
         project, achieving the target.
        DDTS and DEPP disseminated and trained local staff in M&E methodologies through seven different
         capacity building events, achieving the target.
        A total of 86 territorial entities participated in SINERGIA Territorial, surpassing the target of 56 entities.

    Outcomes:

        Index survey results on usage and knowledge of the PBB annex by municipal councilors increased by 10%
         by year 2 of project, achieving the target.
        A medium-term expenditure framework was presented to the municipal council yearly in the context of
         budget discussions in Medellin (years 1 and 2 of the project), achieving the target.
        Regionalized budget information is available for 94% of the investment budget that is subject to being
         regionalized.
        By December 2011, two departments and at least four municipalities had designed and implemented an
         evaluation agenda, achieving the target.
        The percentage of disbursements of the total investment budget that could be regionally tracked increased
         from 68.7% in 2012 to 81.2% in 2014, surpassing the target of 69.5%.
        94% of municipal officials reported a positive change due to technical assistance under SINERGIA
         Territorial.
        Between 2012 and 2013, 50 of the 80 municipal governments that participated in SINERGIA Territorial
         improved their efficiency scores, and 59 of them improved their overall municipal performance scores. 63 of
         the territorial entities now have performance dashboards and generate regular monitoring reports. 53 of the
         territorial entities formalized their M&E system through decrees, resolutions, or ordinances. Capacity
         building efforts resulted in 15 territorial entities achieving the sustainability level at project closing. The
         sustainability level is the highest level (indicating that capacity building was successfully completed and a
         working M&E system is in place) of four levels of M&E capacity of participating territorial entities according to
         a scale devised by the SINGERIA Territorial team, with "readiness" being the lowest, followed by "capacity
         building," "consolidation," and "sustainability."

5. Efficiency:

    Substantial: Neither the PAD nor the ICR included a traditional economic analysis. The PAD assumed that the
    project would have economic benefits due to the availability of more timely and higher quality data that would
    allow the government to make better decisions and improve the allocation of resources.

    The ICR states that due to the lack of data on increased efficiency, a traditional economic analysis could not be
    conducted. However, the ICR (p. 21) convincingly argues that experience around the world shows that
    whole-of-government, evidence-based decision making has a positive impact on effectiveness and efficiencies in
    achieving strategic outcomes. The value of public investments that is subject to the M&E system in Colombia is
    approximately US$128.7 billion a year. The ICR argues that only a marginal improvement of 0.0012 percent is
    necessary to exceed the costs of this project. This is a coherent case for a positive and strong rate of return.

    Delays in project implementation due to a long processing of the project restructuring, which led to the extension
    of the closing date by nine months, might be indicative of inefficiencies in the use of the project’s financial
    resources. However, the project closed on budget, and according to the ICR, procurement and financial
    management challenges were handled efficiently and in a timely manner.
a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The outcome rating is based on substantial relevance of the objectives, substantial relevance of design,
   substantial achievement of all six objectives, and substantial efficiency. These ratings are indicative of only
   minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation and therefore an Outcome rating of
   Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The Risk to Development Outcome is Negligible to Low given the strong commitment and ownership of the
   SINGERIA by the government and other stakeholders as well as legislative and regulatory support. In addition,
   the medium-term expenditure framework has allocated resources to the DNP to continue its efforts to consolidate
   different aspects of SINGERIA. Furthermore, actions financed by the project are fully embedded within the DNP,
   whose technical units were responsible for their implementation.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank used a newly available lending vehicle called STATCAP, which aimed to improve statistical
   capacity through a sector-wide approach (a statistical master plan prepared and owned by the government) in
   several countries.

   Project preparation was lengthy but provided important background analysis for the design of the project and
   for building capacity and consensus among main stakeholders. Several activities such as study tours and
   seminars were conducted that helped to align funding towards a whole-of-government M&E system among
   development partners, including the Inter-American Development Bank, the United States Agency for
   International Development, and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation.

   The Bank identified relevant risk factors during project preparation, such as the underutilization of results of
   the M&E system by the government at both national and subnational levels and civil society, and a potential
   disruption during the change of administration in August 2010. Mitigation efforts were adequate.

   However, there were moderate shortcomings. The project's design was quite complex, involving several
   large government entities and requiring significant coordination between DANE and DNP. The Results
   Framework had several weaknesses; most importantly, some aspects of the objectives were not clearly
   reflected in the indicators (see Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The project was regularly supervised with two missions per year. The missions were well documented, and
   the Bank team included sector specialists who provided expertise in relevant areas such as program
   evaluation, poverty measurement, public sector management tools, and information technology. Close
   supervision of fiduciary compliance allowed the building of capacity within DNP's administrative staff. The
   project experienced delays in restructuring due to a long processing time, which may have been due to
   changes in task team leadership.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was committed to the project and passed supportive legislation, allocated financial
   resources, and provided additional financial resources to avoid interruptions in the implementation of activities
   when the project experienced delays in restructuring. The government showed support for the development
   of a whole-of-government M&E system through its high-level participation at the conference of the Latin
   American and Caribbean M&E network, hosted by the DNP in Bogota in 2009.

   In June 2012, the government decided to replace IEC with CONPES since the IEC did not function
   adequately. CONPES was recognized as the mechanism for successfully dictating and implementing policy
   guidelines for the national government.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project had a complex implementation arrangement. The Deputy Director of DNP was responsible for the
   execution of the project in line with its overall objectives. The Director of Evaluation of Public Policy (DEPP) in
   DNP was in charge of coordination of the entire project. Component 1 was executed by the Directorate for
   Investment and Public Finance (DIFP) and DEPP. Component 2 was jointly executed by DEPP with the
   Inter-Sectoral Committee for Evaluation and Management for Results (IEC), and support from the
   Presidencia. Component 3 was jointly executed by DEPP and the Directorate for Sustainable Territorial
   Development (DDTS). Component 4 was executed by DNP with support from the Presidencia and from the
   National Statistics Office (DANE). All entities demonstrated a strong commitment to the project and the
   SINGERIA. DEPP had strong technical capacity and highly motivated staff. However, there were
   shortcomings regarding M&E reporting before the project was restructured; these improved after the
   restructuring.

   Even though the DNP’s administrative units lacked experience in Bank financial management and
   procurement procedures, these issues were overcome during project implementation. However, delays in the
   project's restructuring were attributable to DNP's inaction.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The objectives were clearly specified. The original Results Framework included five PDO indicators and 19
   intermediate outcome indicators. Some aspects of the objectives were not clearly reflected in the indicators
   (particularly data quality and pertinence), and some indicators were vague and dependent on the rapid
   establishment of baselines. M&E design included two Impact Evaluations, at mid-term and at completion of the
   project.

b. M&E Implementation:

   During the restructuring of the project in 2012, the Results Framework was revised: the original five PDO
   indicators were dropped and two PDO indicators were added. Also, 17 intermediate outcome indicators were
   dropped and four intermediate outcome indicators were added. The revised Results Framework was easier to
   measure and included fewer indicators. However, some weaknesses in the selection of indicators persisted; in
   particular, two of the revised PDO indicators focused only on access and did not capture other dimensions of the
   project's objectives such as quality, availability and relevance of information.

   Monitoring of indicators was weak until the project was restructured in June 2012 and then improved significantly.
   The baseline and mid-term Impact Evaluation were conducted later than planned (in 2010 and 2013
   respectively). The planned Impact Evaluation at project completion was not carried out; the ICR does not specify
   why this was the case.

c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E results did not inform decision making. The Results Framework was not properly monitored before the
   restructuring, and in any case M&E results were not particularly useful since the targets of two of the PDO
   indicators were exceeded soon after the restructuring. Data from outside the formal Results Framework was
   used for the ICR, including baseline and mid-term data from the Impact Evaluations.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category C and did not trigger any safeguards.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   Financial Management was rated Satisfactory throughout project implementation, except in February 2012 when
   it was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory due to some ineligible expenditures, deficiencies in the tracking of
   the project budget, reporting by components, and the need to update the operations manual. However, these
   shortcomings were addressed appropriately and quickly, and the rating for Financial Management was again
   upgraded to Satisfactory.

   External audit reporting was unqualified and clean for all years except for 2011 which did not have an impact on
   the project’s financial situation. Recommendations of the audit reports on internal controls were appropriately
   addressed by the DNP.

   Procurement

   Procurement was rated Moderately Satisfactory during most of the project period due to minor shortcomings in
   the selection process. The DNP complied with agreed action plans to resolve procurement issues in a timely
   manner. Throughout the implementation of the project, the Bank built capacity in the DNP on procurement
   procedures and policies.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately           Shortcomings regarding M&E reporting,
                                                            Satisfactory         and delays in the project's restructuring
                                                                                 due to DNP's inaction.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 25-26) identifies several relevant lessons, including the following:

         Taking technical and political economy considerations into account is essential when designing and
          implementing a whole-of-government M&E system. In order to ensure technical soundness and effective
          utilization by intended users, this project tailored the design of dashboards to the needs of the Office of the
          Presidency and line ministers.
         The time of project preparation can be used to ensure a sound project design but also to build capacity
          and consensus among key stakeholders. In this project, activities implemented during project preparation
          helped to align funding from various development partners.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation. It is candid and provides useful
    lessons drawn from the project's experience. However, it is lengthy, and it does not conduct a split analysis as
    required when objectives are formally revised. Also, it does not adequately distinguish between outputs and
    outcomes.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
