Report No. PID10893
Project Name                     INDIA-Food and Drugs Capacity Building...
Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Institutional Development;
Primary Health; Including,
Reproductive Health; Chi; Nutrition
Project ID                       INPE75056
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
AND FAMILY WELFARE
Address: Nirman Bhavan,
New Delhi - 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. Javid Chowdhury,
Secretary of Health and Family Welfare
Tel: 91 11 301 8863
Fax: 91 11 301 4252
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 23, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         July 22, 2002
Projected Board Date             November 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
1. India has made considerable progress in improving the health status of
its population in the last 50 years. Life expectancy at birth rose from 49
years in 1970 to 63 years in 1998. While the infant mortality rate (IMR),
a sensitive indicator of both socio-economic development and access to
health services, has been reduced from 146 deaths per 1,000 births in the
1950s to 71 in 1997, the rate of decrease has slowed significantly in the
latter half of the 1990s. Although the nutritional status of children
under 5 years has improved slowly over the last 20 years the rates remain
unacceptably high at 47T for the country overall. Both women and young
children have high rates of anemia. India was one of the first countries
in the world to accept official intervention in population control as a
matter of national policy; total fertility rate fell from 6.0 in the 1960s
to 3.0 in 1999 but remains higher than in most other Asian countries. In
spite of these broad favorable trends a high proportion of the population,
particularly those in poverty, continue to suffer and die from preventable
infections, pregnancy and childbirth related complications and
undernutrition. It is estimated that 3.9 million people are living with
HIV and the virus has now spread beyond highly vulnerable groups to the
general population in some states.In this context, the major issues
identified in the India Health, Nutrition and Population strategy are:Wide
disparities in health status between regions and between the poor and
non-poor which continue to widen.Inadequate institutional arrangements and
weak program management.Low quality of HNP services in both the public and
private sectors.Ineffective targeting of public funds to the
poor.Inadequate framework for engaging the private sector.Low efficiency



and limited financial resources.Poor governance.These problems exist
within a general institutional environment of poor oversight and
inadequate measurement of health system performance.The Government of
India is addressing these issues by:Increased investments in economic
growth and human development.Decentralizing planning and program
implementation.Integrating communicable, non-communicable, and
nutrition-related health services.Convergence of service delivery at the
village level.Increased collaboration with the private sector and Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs).Increased community involvement.Food and
Drugs Sub-Sector:     India has developed a large food and drugs industry
that is expanding rapidly. The pharmaceuticals industry now ranks as the
world's third largest and growing at over 109 annually.    Drugs are widely
available in the Indian market and pharmaceuticals are a large and growing
component of health care expenditures. On the food side, with growing
urbanization, increasing numbers of Indians are consuming processed food
products - both domestic and imported. However, the vast majority of the
Indian population continues to depend on the small informal sector
including street food vendors. Currently, there are about 9000 drug
manufacturing firms in India. Of these about 150 firms are large
manufacturers. These larger firms generally produce quality products as
per current WHO Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). The majority of the
smaller production units are not producing drugs up to basic standards,
nor following GMP. There are similar concerns about food safety with the
high burden of food-borne disease and emergence of new pathogens. While
certain segments of the Indian population will be increasingly dependant
on the processed food sector, the vast majority of the Indian population
would continue to depend upon the small, unorganized and street food
sectors.Inadequate food and drug safety is a significant contributor to
the burden of disease. As these industries expand, there is increasing
concern for consumer protection, particularly for the poor, from unsafe
and poor quality foods and drugs. While there are regulations for quality
assurance, enforcement is weak and the methods outdated. Together with
strengthening the regulatory infrastructure, a new approach, based on
public-private partnership and self-regulation, is needed for carrying out
these essential public health functions for promoting consumer safety.
2. Objectives
In this context, over the next fifteen years, the long-term vision of the
Government of India is to ensure safe and high quality food and drugs for
the Indian public and increase Indian competitiveness in international
markets. This long term vision includes: (i) creating common standards
and approaches in the country; (ii) all Indian states having Food and
Drug Directorates which are functioning effectively and exercising
adequate oversight; (iii) a well-informed and self-regulating industry
working in partnership with government and consumers; (iv) a good and
transparent database for policy and program development; (v) information
networks with feedback mechanisms; and, (vi) a high level of consumer
awareness and participation.The proposed project would constitute only a
first step in the pursuit of this long term vision. It would have a
realistic scope and would address basic needs in institutional development
and infrastructure. Therefore, the main objective of the project would be
to build capacity for quality assurance and oversight for food and drugs
in both public and private sectors. Concurrently, during implementation,
the project would initiate studies and/or piloting in a variety of issues
and regulatory options concerning the evolving functions and long term
- 2 -



development of food and drug administration. The project would
efficiently build on existing structures to improve current practices. It
would strengthen working alliances with related ministries, private
industries, and consumer organizations. Notably, the project would assist
the Government of India and the states to:Develop the capacity and improve
the effectiveness of public health laboratories.Upgrade skills in both
public and private sectors for increased quality assurance, particularly
in small-scale industries. Concurrently, it would strengthen
public-private partnership in quality assurance through measures such as
joint training, technical assistance, sharing information, consultation,
and accreditation.Develop the government's role to provide guidance and
information, rather than solely enforcement, and to promote quality
assurance and expand self-regulation by the industry. Initial actions
towards this shift have already been initiated by the government.Increase
consumer awareness and participation.Improve governance in regulatory
activities, notably in licensing and inspection.Concurrently, the project
would engage states with broad stakeholder participation in reviewing
roles and responsibilities and in developing common approaches and
standards in the organization and approach to Food and Drugs
Administration.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project's main benefit would accrue to the general society through
increased safety and quality assurance of food and drugs. While the
project would benefit the society at large, the poor would especially
benefit because they are more likely to be victims of poor quality foods
and drugs as well as being less empowered to have voice and to take action
in consumer protection issues.International Development Association (IDA)
has been assisting the population and nutrition sector in India for over
20 years, and the health sector for about 10 years, through a series of
individual projects in Disease Control, State Health Systems, Reproductive
and Child Health, and Women and Child Development. IDA's support for this
project would add value by: strengthening an essential public health
function that cuts across the whole portfolio affecting all health
interventions and is a prerequisite to promote consumer protection;
strengthening capacity for oversight; stimulating the review of different
models for regulation in the international community, and accelerating the
process for reducing the existing heterogeneity.Complementing this is the
Bank's ability to tap international experience and coordinate across
previous investments by the Bank and other donors. The Bank has an
ongoing partnership with World Health Organization (WHO) and Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) and has liaised with the United States Food
and Drug Administration (USFDA).
4. Description
The proposed five-year project is a centrally sponsored scheme. It would
assist the central and state governments to build capacity for technical
quality and regulatory oversight for enhanced safety and quality assurance
in food and drugs. Concerning the project scope, it is tentatively
proposed that all states would receive project support for institutional
development activities and that about 16 states would benefit from
strengthening laboratory infrastructure.The project would consist of the
following two main components:I. Food Safety and Quality (a)
Institutional Development for Regulatory Oversight: This sub-component
would support: (i) policy development and reforms such as enhancing the
-3 -



government's role to provide guidance and promote self-regulation by the
industry rather than only inspection, establishing national standards,
introduction and adoption of Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
(HACCP) guidelines in selected priority food sectors; examination of
international models for FDA for further adaptation at the center and
state level, studies and pilots; (ii) strengthening human resources by
recruitment of qualified staff, with help from the center, if needed;
joint training of public and private sector personnel; improving awareness
and practices of food safety among food handlers in the small scale
industries and informal street food sector; curricula development for Home
Science Institutes emphasizing hygiene, GMP and HACCP; (iii) enhancing
consumer awareness and behavior change by working through NGOs and media;
carrying out surveys on the informal sector, including street food
vendors; and (iv) enhancing information systems for improved networking
and evaluation capacity between states and the center.This sub-component
would support incremental operating costs for staffing, training,
technical assistance, consultants, contracting NGOs, computers,
development and purchase of software, contracting media agencies, and
carrying out surveys.(b) Strengthening Quality Assurance Infrastructure:
This sub-component would increase quality control testing capabilities at
the national and state level by: (i) construction of new laboratories,
renovation and expansion of existing laboratories at the center and state
levels and in expert institutions; and (ii) construction of a new
facility for integrating the Food and Drugs Administration units.This
sub-component would finance construction and renovation of buildings,
purchase of equipment, supplies, furniture, and operating and maintenance
costs. II. Drugs Safety and Quality (a) Institutional Development for
Oversight and Regulation: This sub-component would provide support for:
(i) policy reforms in licensing procedures, good governance in inspection
regimes and resource generation, promoting self-regulation, creation of
National Pharmacopoeia Commission with public-private representation to
develop and disseminate pharmaceutical reference standards, create a
national database of drugs and manufacturing firms, studies and pilots;
(ii) strengthening human resources by recruitment of qualified staff,
assistance from the center, if needed; joint training of public and
private sector personnel in up-to-date methods to meet current Good
Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP); (iii)
enhancing information network; and (iv) increasing consumer awareness and
participation by working through NGOs and medical associations. This
sub-component would support incremental operating costs for staffing,
training, technical assistance, consultants, contracting NGOs, computers,
development and purchase of software, contracting media agencies, and
costs for private testing. (b) Strengthening Quality Assurance
Infrastructure: This sub-component would increase quality control testing
capabilities through construction of new laboratories, and renovation and
expansion of existing laboratories at the center and state level.This
sub-component would finance construction and renovation of buildings,
purchase of equipment, supplies and furniture.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                            7
IDA                                55
Total Project Cost                 62
-4-



6. Implementation
The proposed project would implement activities through existing
institutional arrangements at the center and state levels. In addition,
activities would be implemented by other stakeholders including: other
government departments such as the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers,
expert institutions such as the National Institute of Nutrition, private
sector associations, NGOs, and consumer groups. The international
agencies WHO and FAO are also key partners in this program.Project
Coordination and Management. At the central level in MOHFW, the project
would be implemented through the existing units responsible for food and
drugs quality control. Namely, these are the Central Administration of
Drug Control and the Prevention of Food Adulteration Program (PFA). These
units would each manage their respective components. A project management
cell is proposed to be assigned within the Ministry under the supervision
of the Joint Secretary Health to review, facilitate, channel and monitor
activities of the participating organizations. The cell would include:
(i) an Information Education Communication (IEC)/NGO consultant
responsible for promoting consumer awareness through both media and NGO
channels; (ii) procurement specialist; (iii) financial controller and
accountants; and, (iv) architects. The project management team would
coordinate among participating organizations, institutions and states, and
would be integrated within the Ministry at the end of the Project.The
Joint Secretary, MOHFW would have overall responsibility for the proposed
project assisted by the Drug Controller General of India and the Assistant
Director General (PFA).Quality Control of Drugs. Responsibility for this
component rests with the Drug Controller General of India and State Drug
Controllers. Each level focuses on implementing drug statutory quality
control requirements, inspection workforce functioning, licensing and
testing of samples, upgradation and expansion of laboratory capacities,
and training. The Center is responsible for licensing drugs, while the
states are responsible for licensing manufacturing facilities.Food Quality
Control and Safety. The Assistant Director General (PFA) at the
Directorate General of Health Services and counterpart nodal officers in
the states would be responsible for implementing and monitoring food
safety requirements. Essential functions would be exercised through the
Food Inspectors in the states and through sample testing in central and
state food laboratories. The PFA section also serves as the Secretariat
for the Central Committee for Food Standards and for the National Codex
Center. Coordination with other Ministries and Expert Institutions. The
MOHFW would coordinate with other government departments, notably the
Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, for training and use of existing
laboratories for testing. Expert institutions such as the National
Institute of Nutrition would be closely involved in training, carrying out
surveys and strengthening a database. Home Science Colleges would review
and supplement curriculum to emphasize hygiene, GMP and HACCP issues as
well as help enhance voluntary compliance of food safety measures among
small scale food manufacturing and service industry in both formal and
informal sectors.Linkages would be developed with other ongoing projects
in health and nutrition, education and water and sanitation for enhancing
consumer awareness and behavior change. In particular, interventions for
food safety would be developed with the Bank's Nutrition, Environment and
Rural Development sectors and for drug quality assurance with the State
Health Systems projects.Private Sector. Industry, NGOs, and Consumer
Groups would play an active role in creating consumer awareness of food
and drug regulation, standards, food handling as well as hygiene.
- 5 -



International Partnerships. Both WHO and FAO are already involved in the
food and drugs administration programs and they would provide technical
assistance for training and updating standards. Liaison would be
established with key bilaterals such as USAID, CIDA, DFID, and AusAid to
further study performance of different international models for food and
drug regulation.
7. Sustainability
Financial sustainability. As an integral component of fiscal impact
analysis of the planned investments, project preparation/appraisal will
review and evaluate recurrent cost implications and financial
sustainability. The initial assessment of the proposed project indicates
the potential for high financial sustainability for several reasons
including: (a) total operation and maintenance costs under the project,
including incremental staff salaries and new and enhanced laboratories,
would constitute a very small percentage of the MOHFW budget; (b) the
project design promotes long-term efficiency, industry responsibility, and
increased outsourcing; and (c) the project would contribute to reduced
morbidity, resulting in the decrease of drug and hospitalization costs
borne by the government.Technical sustainability is high for several
reasons: (a) the project builds upon existing programs and institutions
to be implemented under existing administrative structures, policies and
mandates. These agencies would continue to use more effective quality
control activities throughout the country after the IDA credit closes;
(b) investments in training, acquisition of new expertise, better
information systems, and ongoing review would help sustain the delivery of
quality control activities beyond the project; (c) involvement of
consumer groups in project design and implementation would create
incentives for maintaining project services, and pressures to maintain
standards beyond the end of the project; (d) improved intersectoral
communication and collaboration would create linkages among industries,
government agencies and NGOs to further control the quality of food and
drugs; (e) interest in competing in international markets would promote
quality assurance activities.Managerial sustainability is high for several
reasons: (a) the ongoing capacity would be built through key
administrative staff for implementing, monitoring and evaluating program
components; (b) the project would build an improved information network;
and (c) augmentation of staff skills, including accounting, financial
review, procurement, management planning and information would enhance
overall management capacities in the sector and help improve quality
control functions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned derive from experience internationally and from the
Bank's involvement in India's health program which includes: Disease
Control Projects, State Health Systems Projects, Population and
Reproductive and Child Health Projects, and Women and Child Development
Nutrition Projects. The main lessons, which are reflected in the project
design, would be further elaborated during project preparation. They
include:Lessons from international experienceShift from regulatory systems
that have concentrated largely on policing to systems that focus on the
hazards and products that present the greatest risks to public health,
emphasizing development and implementation of preventive control of those
risks through a collaborative process which involves all of industry and
other stakeholders.Need for adherence to internationally developed
- 6 -



standards for food and drugs quality and safety.An effective national
commitment to food and drugs quality and safety is a shared responsibility
by government, consumers, industry, consumer organizations, and
NGOs.Global shift has widened the scope of quality control beyond
mandatory inspection, sampling and prosecution of offender.Lessons from
India Health Projects The focus on institutional arrangements, including
the need to review and clarify center-state relationships. Importance of
collaboration with the private sector - both for-profit and
non-profit.Importance of community participation.Good governance promoting
transparency in transactions.Seeking opportunities in integration between
health and other sectors e.g. water and sanitation, nutrition.Importance
of public education. In the proposed project, public education would be
about the law and regulatory framework, storage, handling and labelling of
foods, and drugs as well as hygiene.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Laboratories under this project would be upgraded
in terms of operational procedures, including purchase, storage and
handling of chemicals; and management (storage and disposal) of wastes.
The Project would provide for the preparation of a Laboratory Guidance
Manual that will contain standard operating procedures (SOPs) and specific
implementation plans for selected laboratories. These would address site
sanitation, safety and material handling, and disposal procedures, as well
as training and capacity development plans to ensure their
implementation. During Project implementation, the Laboratory Guidance
Manual would be adopted for use in selected Project laboratories based on
laboratory-specific features. Implementation would also include
laboratory staff training. At Project closure, these laboratories are
expected to fully abide by the Laboratory Guidance Manual.This activity
will be coordinated with the overall environmental review of the health
sector projects in India that is being conducted by the Environment and
Social Unit of the Bank's South Asia Region.The labs under this project
will not handle infectious waste. These labs will not undertake drug
development or testing.Key stakeholders include: laboratory staff, food
and drug regulatory personnel, Environmental NGOs and affected communities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Salim J. Habayeb
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-0314
Fax: 202-522-2955
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
-7 -



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 8 -



