Report No. 23646
Report No: i075056 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/04/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDIA Project ID: P075056
Project: Food and Drugs Capacity Building Project         Task Team Leader: Salim
J. Habayeb
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 22, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: November 26, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 55.00
Managing Unit: SASHD     Sector: BI - Institutional Development; HC - Primary
Health; Including Reproductive Health; Chi; HN - Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
India has developed a large food and drugs industry that is expanding
rapidly. The pharmaceuticals industry now ranks as the world's third
largest and growing at over 10t annually.   Drugs are widely available in
the Indian market and pharmaceuticals are a large and growing component of
health care expenditures. On the food side, with growing urbanization,
increasing numbers of Indians are consuming processed food products - both
domestic and imported. However, the vast majority of the Indian
population continues to depend on small informal sectors including street
food vendors.
Inadequate food and drugs safety is a significant contributor to the
burden of disease. As these industries expand, there is increasing
concern for consumer protection, particularly for the poor, from unsafe
and poor quality foods and drugs. While there are regulations for quality
assurance, enforcement is weak and the methods outdated. Together with
strengthening the regulatory infrastructure, a new approach, based on
public-private partnership and self-regulation, is needed for carrying out
these essential public health functions for promoting consumer safety.
In this context, over the next fifteen years, the long-term vision of the
Government of India is to ensure safe and high quality food and drugs for
the Indian public and increase Indian competitiveness in international
markets. This long term vision includes: (i) creating common standards
and approaches in the country; (ii) all Indian states having Food and
Drug Directorates which are functioning effectively and exercising
adequate oversight; (iii) a well-informed and self-regulating industry
working in partnership with government and consumers; (iv) a good and
transparent database for policy and program development; (v) information
networks with feedback mechanisms; and, (vi) a high level of consumer
awareness and participation.
The proposed project would constitute only a first step in the pursuit of
this long term vision. It would have a realistic scope and would address
basic needs in institutional development and infrastructure. Therefore,



the main objective of the project would be to build capacity for quality
assurance and oversight for food and drugs in both public and private
sectors.
Concurrently, during implementation, the project would initiate studies
and/or pilots in a variety of issues and regulatory options concerning the
evolving functions and long term development of food and drug
administration. The project would efficiently build on existing
structures to improve current practices. It would strengthen working
alliances with related ministries, private industries, and consumer
organizations. Notably, the project would assist the Government of India
and the states to:
Develop the capacity and improve the effectiveness of public health
laboratories.
Upgrade skills in both public and private sectors for increased quality
assurance, particularly in small-scale industries. Concurrently, it would
strengthen public-private partnership in quality assurance through
measures such as joint training, technical assistance, sharing
information, consultation, and accreditation.
Develop the government's role to provide guidance and information, rather
than solely enforcement, and to promote quality assurance and expand
self-regulation by the industry. Initial actions towards this shift have
already been initiated by the government.
Increase consumer awareness and participation.
Improve governance in regulatory activities, notably in licensing and
inspection.
Concurrently, the project would engage states with broad stakeholder
participation in reviewing roles and responsibilities and in developing
common approaches and standards in the organization and approach to Food
and Drugs Administration.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed five-year project is a centrally sponsored scheme. It would
assist the central and state governments to build capacity for technical
quality and regulatory oversight for enhanced safety and quality assurance
in food and drugs. Concerning the project scope, it is tentatively
proposed that all states would receive project support for institutional
development activities and that about 16 states would benefit from
strengthening laboratory infrastructure.
The project would consist of the following two main components:
I. Food Safety and Quality
(a) Institutional Development for Regulatory Oversight: This
sub-component would support: (i) policy development and reforms such as
enhancing the government's role to provide guidance and promote
self-regulation by the industry rather than only inspection, establishing
national standards, introduction and adoption of Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) guidelines in selected priority food sectors;
examination of international models for food and drug administration for
further adaptation at the center and state level; (ii) strengthening
human resources by recruitment of qualified staff, with help from the
center, if needed; joint training of public and private sector personnel;
improving awareness and practices of food safety among food handlers in
the small scale industries and informal street food sector; curricula
development for Home Science Institutes emphasizing hygiene, Good
- 2 -



Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and HACCP; (iii) enhancing consumer
awareness and behavior change by working through NGOs and media; carrying
out surveys on the informal sector, including street food vendors; and
(iv) enhancing information systems for improved networking and evaluation
capacity between states and the center.
This sub-component would support incremental operating costs for staffing,
training, technical assistance, consultants, contracting NGOs, computers,
development and purchase of software, contracting media agencies, and
carrying out surveys.
(b) Strengthening Quality Assurance Infrastructure: This sub-component
would increase quality control testing capabilities at the national and
state level by: (i) construction of new laboratories, renovation and
expansion of existing laboratories at the center and state levels and in
expert institutions; and (ii) construction of a new facility for
integrating the Food and Drugs Administration units.
This sub-component component would finance construction and renovation of
buildings, purchase of equipment, supplies, furniture, and operating and
maintenance costs.
II. Drugs Safety and Quality
(a) Institutional Development for Oversight and Regulation: This
sub-component would provide support for: (i) policy development and
reforms in licensing procedures, good governance in inspection regimes and
resource generation, promoting self-regulation, creation of National
Pharmacopoeia Commission with public-private representation to develop and
disseminate pharmaceutical reference standards, create a national database
of drugs and manufacturing firms; (ii) strengthening human resources by
recruitment of qualified staff, assistance from the center, if needed;
joint training of public and private sector personnel in up-to-date
methods to meet current Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and Good
Manufacturing Practices (GMP); (iii) enhancing information network; and
(iv) increasing consumer awareness and participation by working through
NGOs and medical associations.
This sub-component would support incremental operating costs for staffing,
training, technical assistance, consultants, contracting NGOs, computers,
development and purchase of software, contracting media agencies, and
costs for private testing.
(b) Strengthening Quality Assurance Infrastructure: This sub-component
would increase quality control testing capabilities through construction
of new laboratories, and renovation and expansion of existing laboratories
at the center and state level.
This sub-component would finance construction and renovation of buildings,
purchase of equipment, supplies and furniture.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project would cover the entire country.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: No separate Environmental Assessment will be required as there
are no major issues. The Project documents will include an environmental
plan that will assist food and drug laboratories in India to operate in a
manner that would comply with environmental requirements in India and be
-3 -



compatible to international environmental practices. The environmental
plan will include: (i) an inventory of food and drug laboratories in the
public sector to be supported by the project; (ii) a review of existing
legislation and Good Laboratory Practice documents for food and drug
testing laboratories; and (iii) action plans for implementation under
the project. The draft environmental plan would be developed for review by
the Bank prior to appraisal and finalized by project effectiveness.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
OD. 4.20. Indigenous Peoples. It is expected that this policy will not
be triggered since indigenous people are among the general population that
would benefit from communications campaigns to increase knowledge about
food and drug safety and quality.
Waste Management: The potential impact of laboratory construction and
operation may require an update of the Good Laboratory Practice (GLP)
documents. The update would address site sanitation, safety and material
handling, and disposal procedures, as well as training and capacity
development plans. The Project would provide for training and use of GLP
by laboratory personnel. This activity would be coordinated with the
overall environmental review of the health sector projects in India that
is being conducted by SASES.
The laboratories under this project would not undertake drug development.
All civil works would follow applicable construction building codes,
including those for water supply, sanitation, ventilation, safety, and
hygiene.
No land acquisition for civil works is required.
Small food producers would risk closure because of failure to comply with
quality standards and would need transparent and fair procedure for
determining their status. The project would include mechanisms for active
-4 -



dissemination of information on their rights of appeal, as well as their
obligations.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None are expected
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None are expected
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
As no negative impacts are expected no alternatives are required for
safeguard treatments.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
There is no land acquisition for the civil works involved in this project.
In states with significant tribal populations, IEC activities would be
developed in consultation with tribal leaders. During project
preparation, efforts would be made to make contact with tribal groups who
are concerned with food and drug safety issues and involve them in project
consultations. The Project would be implemented by MOHFW and would use
existing strategies that have been developed to guide health interventions.
The Project would provide for the preparation of GLP documents and
specific implementation plans for selected laboratories. During Project
implementation, the GLP document would be adopted for use in selected
Project laboratories based on laboratory-specific features.
Implementation would also include laboratory staff training. At Project
closure, these laboratories are expected to fully abide by the GLP.
All civil works will follow applicable construction building codes,
including those for water supply, sanitation, ventilation, safety, and
hygiene.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Project preparation will emphasize fostering a sense of ownership and
commitment among the stakeholders of the project. These include:
Food and drug regulation units at the center and state levels. They will
play a proactive role in project planning and development. Both center
and state levels will be involved in the preparation of the Project
Implementation Plan.
Private sector: food and drug manufacturing units, street food vendors
hotels, and restaurants, grocery and provision stores, licensed drug
wholesalers, and local chemists and druggists. They are being consulted
on identifying mechanisms for their involvement in project implementation.
Consumer groups and NGOs. They will play an important role in public
awareness and participation by promoting information and feedback
mechanisms such as setting up complaint systems, reporting and websites.
Home Science Colleges will review curriculum needs and help carry out
- 5-



studies and interventions with the informal sector including street food
vendors.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Salim J. Habayeb        01/31/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Varalakshmi Vemuru
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:       Bekir Onursal
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        L. Panneer Selvam       01/31/2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Y. Jimenez     01/31/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



