Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3777 IN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Food and Drugs Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  September 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3777 IN 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 2003, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
certain activities under the Project will be carried out by the States of the 
Borrower (the Project States) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to each of the Project States part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental 
Management Plan furnished to the Association on December 17, 2002, which provides 
for certain environmental and social impact mitigation measures to be undertaken by the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Borrower as part of the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“HACCP” means Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point; 
 
(f)  “IEC” means information, education and communication; 
 
(g) 
“Letter of Undertaking” means the letter of undertaking to be executed 
and furnished to the Borrower by each of the Project States pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
"MIS" means management information system; 
 
(i) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review to be carried out pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“MOHFW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare; 
 
(k) 
“NGO” means a non-profit legal entity, determined by the Borrower and 
the Association as capable of assisting in the fulfillment of the objectives of the Project;  
 
(l) 
“PCU” means the Program Coordination Unit referred to in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 2 and paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
the Borrower dated April 28, 2003, which sets out details of all procedures, guidelines, 
timetables and criteria required for the Project, including the financial, institutional and 
implementation arrangements relating to the carrying out of the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(n) 
 “Project Year” means the twelve (12) month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve (12) months thereafter and each successive twelve (12) 
month period following thereafter; 
 
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(q) 
“SACS” means a State Aids Control Society established and registered 
within a Project State under the applicable Societies Registration Act, as amended, which 
is assigned financial management functions with respect to the participation of the Project 
State in the Project.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty nine million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2013 and ending June 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2023 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
 
(B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred 
to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall 
be a grace period of a minimum of 
 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
Page  6
-
5
-
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, public health and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Project States to: 
(i) execute and furnish to the Borrower a letter of undertaking, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) carry out its respective activities under the Project 
in accordance with its Letter of Undertaking. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable each Project State to perform all the obligations of the Project State set forth in 
this Agreement and in the respective Letter of Undertaking of the Project State. The 
Borrower shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall establish and implement arrangements, satisfactory 
to the Association, to make available for the benefit of each Project State a portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit to cover the amounts required by such Project State in carrying out 
its portion of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works
 and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by each Project State pursuant to the terms of its respective Letter of 
Undertaking. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower and each Project State (including those of the SACS or other 
relevant entity) responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State (including those 
of the SACS or other relevant entity) to: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and  
Page  8
-
7
-
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of Financial 
Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report, to be furnished by the Borrower 
after the date of this Agreement, shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous Financial 
Monitoring Report until the end of such  calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any of the provisions 
of any Letter of Undertaking; 
 
(b) 
any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
its respective Letter of Undertaking; 
 
(c) 
any Letter of Undertaking shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect adversely the Project; and 
 
(d) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project State will be able to perform its obligations under its 
Letter of Undertaking. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance or successor thereto of the Borrower are each designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
New Delhi 110 001 
 India 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 
  953-31-66175 
 91-11-23094075 
New Delhi 
 
 
FINE IN 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
 
 
 
          /s/ Dr. Ranjit Banerjee 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
  /s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
Page  12
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
8,300,000 
 
85% 
 
(2) 
Equipment, 
16,600,000  
100% of foreign 
 
furniture, materials, 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
consumables and 
 
of local expenditures 
 
supplies 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services: 
 
 
 
(a) NGO Services, training 
2,900,000 
 
100% 
 
and workshops 
 
(b) Other services including 
3,600,000 
   90% 
 
surveys, IEC and MIS 
 
services 
 
(4) 
Incremental 
6,300,000 
 
80% through July 31, 
 
Operating costs 
 
 
2005, 70% through 
 
July 31, 2006, 60% 
 
through July 31, 2007 
and 25% thereafter 
 
 
(5) Unallocated 
2,000,000 
 
 
_________     
 TOTAL 
39,700,000
Page  13
-
12 -
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
2. (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the following additional 
costs incurred in the carrying out of the Project: (i) remuneration of individuals appointed 
under the Project and assigned to positions specifically created for purposes of the 
Project; (ii) the costs of: (A) office expenses under the Project, (B) operation, hiring and 
maintenance of vehicles, (C) operation and maintenance of equipment purchased under 
the Project, (D) operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under the Project,  
and (E) Project related domestic travel including allowances. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 158,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 2003; and 
 
(b) 
expenditures incurred in or by any Project State unless the Project State 
has executed and furnished to the Borrower a letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) expenditures for civil works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (iii) expenditures for services under contracts 
costing less than: (A) $100,000 equivalent each in the case of consulting firms, and  
(B) $50,000 equivalent each in the case of individual consultants; and (iv) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit 
account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the Financial 
Monitoring Report and any other information as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request 
submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been made from the Credit 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the 
Page  14
-
13 -
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six (6) month period 
following the date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals for payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower 
directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as 
the case may be. 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to US$4,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 13,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Page  17
-
16 -
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality and safety of foods and 
drugs through: (i) the strengthening of consumer and other stakeholder education to 
enhance public awareness and knowledge of: (A) issues of food safety and quality, and 
(B) issues regarding drug quality and misuse of drugs; (ii) support the development of 
recommendations and options for appropriate policies and measures on food and drug 
issues; and (iii) the strengthening of:  (A) the regulatory framework for food and drugs, 
and (B) public-private partnership. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Policy Development, Program Coordination and Monitoring
Support development of recommendations and options for appropriate policies and 
measures, and strengthening of the central government food and drug directorates for 
improved program coordination and monitoring, including: (i) the establishment of a 
central Program Coordination Unit; (ii) the establishment of a computerized management 
information system to enhance information flows and coordination between the central 
and State regulatory agencies; (iii) the improvement of central physical facilities for food 
and drugs oversight  and related staffing; (iv)  provision of training and fellowships;  
(v) the carrying out of annual household sample surveys by independent agencies and/or 
consumer groups to assess public perceptions and knowledge about quality and safety of 
foods and drugs; and (vi) the development and implementation of an IEC strategy for the 
improvement of consumer behavior. 
 
The carrying out of independent audits of private and public testing laboratories by a 
panel of experts appointed by MOHFW. 
 
The implementation of environmental management plans and the carrying out of audits 
by a consultant agency to oversee such implementation; and assessment of compliance 
with said plan.  
 
The carrying out of studies; provision of technical advisory services; workshops; the 
acquisition of goods, including computers and software; and the carrying out of necessary 
construction works. 
 
Part B
:
Food Quality and Safety
1. The 
strengthening 
of
the Borrower’s oversight and regulatory capacity for food 
safety at the central and State levels, educate consumers and other stakeholders on 
Page  20
-
19 -
matters related to food safety and to upgrade related skills in the public an private sector, 
including: 
 
(a) 
the building of consumer and other stakeholder awareness and 
knowledge of food safety issues, through: (i) the development and carrying out, with the 
assistance of professional media agencies, NGOs and consumer organizations, of 
strategies to disseminate such information to consumers, small manufacturers, retailers 
and street vendors and others operating in the food supply chain; and (ii) facilitating the 
adoption of safe practices in the handling of food within households;  
 
(b) 
the enhancement of regulatory staff skills through: (i) in-service training, 
and joint training by national apex training centers of public and private sector personnel 
consisting of about 2,000 inspectors and 500 analysts in public sector laboratories and 
about 1000 professionals from private sector and consumer organizations; and 
 
(ii) training of personnel of about 20 umbrella consumer organizations in advocacy and 
other necessary skills; 
 
(c) 
the development and dissemination of Hazard Analysis Critical Control 
Point (HACCP) standards for the domestic food industry;  
 
(d) 
construction, renovation and equipping of central and State laboratories, 
consisting of: (i) ten (10) central laboratories in Mumbai, Ghaziabad, Kandla, Attari, 
Raxaul, Sonali and four other locations along the Indo-Nepal border; (ii) eleven (11) port 
health offices at the following cities and border sites, namely Kandla, Mumbai, Chennai, 
Kolkata, Delhi including ICD, Kochi, Visakhapatnam, Attari, ICD Jodhpur, Raxaul, 
Sonali, the National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad and the Central Food Technology 
Research Institute, Mysore; (iii) nine (9) State food testing laboratories in 
Visakhapatnam, Gangtok, Imphal, Chennai, Raipur, Ranchi, Rudrapur, Panaji and 
Gorakhpur; and (iv) six (6) existing State food testing laboratories at Shillong, Kohima, 
Jaipur, Baroda, Bhuj and Moreh; and  
 
(e) 
the acquisition of provision of furniture, equipment and laboratory 
supplies for new and existing laboratories. 
 
Part C
:
Drugs Quality and Safety
1. 
The development and carrying out of a program, with the assistance of 
professional media agencies, NGOs and consumer organizations, to improve consumer 
and prescriber awareness and behavior regarding the quality and rational use of drugs, 
including the dissemination of information to small manufacturers and retailers of drugs 
along the drug supply chain with a view to facilitating the adoption by consumers of 
quality and safety as criteria in making choices of drugs and retail outlets. 
 
2. 
The enhancement of staff skills through training in Good Manufacturing 
Practices and Good Laboratory Practices of private and public sector personnel consisting 
Page  21
-
20 -
of about 2,000 workers from small scale industries, and 625 staff and analysts from the 
public sector. 
 
3. 
Updating and dissemination of pharmaceutical standards, including the updating 
and dissemination of the Indian Pharmacopoeia. 
 
4. 
(a) 
The construction and equipping of: (i) a new Central drug laboratory at 
Mumbai and the renovation of the Central India Pharmacopoeia laboratory at Ghaziabad; 
and (ii) five new State drug testing laboratories at Kolkata, Raipur, Ranchi, Rudrapur and 
Panaji and the renovation of 12 State laboratories at Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Baroda, 
Thiruvananthapuram, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneshawar, Pondicherry, Khandaghat, 
Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow. 
 
(b) 
The acquisition of furniture, equipment and laboratory supplies for the 
State laboratories. 
  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,260,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Works estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
(a) 
Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, goods estimated to cost 
less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,950,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
Page  23
-
22 -
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Reference standards for identification, decomposition, impurity, 
quantitative analysis for the drugs, validation of analytical methods and calibration of 
analytical equipment used by the Central and State Government laboratories as well as 
the private sector, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $330,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and works which should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract or must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $10,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
The following works may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation, namely: (i) new construction and renovation works 
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,730,000 equivalent; and (ii) building maintenance works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$680,000 equivalent. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall 
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
5. Force 
Account
The following works may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out 
by force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, 
namely: (i) works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
costing $10,000 equivalent or less per contract; and (ii) as an alternative to procurement 
under paragraph 4 (ii) of this Part C, works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent 
per contract for the maintenance of
 
buildings, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$680,000 equivalent. 
 
Page  24
-
23 -
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost $300,000 
equivalent or more; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or 
more;  (iii) each of the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $30,000 
equivalent but less than $300,000 equivalent; and (iv) the first contract for works 
estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent but less than $500,000 equivalent. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  25
-
24 -
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants 
 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), Paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The 
short list of consultants for services estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of a consulting firm or entity to carry out important studies and policy 
reviews identified under the policy matrix of the Project, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services of the following autonomous institutions or entities may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, namely: (i) nationally 
renowned institutions undertaking training and workshops under the Project; and (ii) any 
institution or entity undertaking surveys under the Project. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  26
-
25 -
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of  
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
26 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation Plan and the 
Environmental Management Plan each in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and the Environmental Management Plan and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of the Project Implementation Plan or the Environmental Management Plan if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall by June 30, 2004 formulate a strategy and action 
plan for carrying out IEC activities under the Project and, shall, thereafter implement it in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall no later than October 31, 2003 fully establish and 
thereafter maintain in MOHFW a Program Coordination Unit in a form and with 
functions, membership, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. PCU shall 
be under the supervision of the Joint Secretary of MOHFW and its membership shall 
include: (i) an IEC/NGO consultant responsible for promoting consumer awareness and 
knowledge through media and NGO channels; and (ii) a qualified financial specialist and 
accountants. PCU shall also be assisted by procurement specialists and architects of 
MOHFW.  
 
(b) 
The functions of PCU shall include: (i) coordination of Project activities 
with other line departments, ministries and technical agencies of the Borrower;  
(ii) preparation of annual action plans; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of Project 
activities; (iv) financial management; and (v) procurement of Project inputs. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association in the month of June of each Project Year, a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
progress made in the carrying out of the Project during the twelve (12) month period 
immediately preceding said month of June, such progress to be measured against the 
indicators referred to in Clause 3 (a) of this Schedule; and 
 
Page  28
-
27 -
(c) 
review with the Association
 
in the month of July of each Project Year 
progress made in the carrying out of the Project and the attainment of the objectives 
thereof, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) above; 
and thereafter take, or cause to be taken, all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Association during such reviews as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall no later than December 31, 2005, carry out jointly with the 
Association a Midterm Review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The 
Midterm Review shall cover: (i) an assessment of: (A) progress made in carrying out 
work programs prepared for the Project, (B) training provided under the Project,  
(C) procurement under the Project, (D) the extent to which the indicators referred to in 
Clause 3 (a) of this Schedule have been achieved, (E) plans made or proposed for 
updating said indicators; and (ii) such other Project related matters as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request.
 
