                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 33783

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (IDA-30850)

                                              ON A

                                             CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35,200,000 EQUIVALENT

                                             TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                             FOR A

              SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                         December 7, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latina America and the Caribbean Region

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 1998)

                                           Currency Unit = Córdoba (C$)
                                                  C$1.00 = US$ 0.10
                                                   US$ 1 = C$ 10.00

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1 to December 31

                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARI     Institutional Reorganization Agreement               IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
        Acuerdo de Reestructuración Institucional                       Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo
AT      Technical Assistance                                 IERR       Internal Economic Rate of Return
        Asistencia Técnica                                   IRI        International Road Roughness Index
BM      World Bank                                           MCTE       Emergency Relief Community Module
        Banco Mundial                                        MCTI       Earthquake Relief Community Module
COERCO  Regional Highway Construction Agencies               MCTT       Flood Relief Module
COV     Vehicle Operating Cost                               ME         Micro Enterprises
        Costo Operativo Vehicular                            MTI        Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency              NMT        Non-motorized Transportation
DGP     Planning Directorate                                 NPV        Net Present Value
        Dirección General de Planificación                   PAD        Project Appraisal Document
DGTT    Road Transport Directorate                           PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
        Dirección General de Transporte Terrestre            PMS        Pavement Management System
DGV     Highway Directorate                                  RED        Road Economic Decision Model
        Dirección General de Vialidad                        RMF        Road Maintenance Fund
DRA     Directorate of Road Maintenance                      SIAF       Integrated Financial Administration System
FOMAV   Road Maintenance Fund                                TPDA       Traffic Demand
        Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial                                     Tráfico Promedio Diario Annual
HDM     Highway Design and Maintenance Model                 UA         Environmental Unit
ICB     International Competitive Bidding                               Unidad Ambiental
IDA     International Development Association
        Asociación Internacional de Fomento




                                          Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                                        Country Director     Jane Armitage
                                         Sector Manager      Jose Luis Irigoyen
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Emmanuel A. James

                                        NICARAGUA
                    Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P053705                                                  Project Name: NI TRANSPORT II
Team Leader: Emmanuel A. James                                       TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 7, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NI TRANSPORT II                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-30850
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (82%); Central government administration
                            (18%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/19/1997                                     Effective: 11/09/1998
     Appraisal: 03/25/1998                                         MTR: 03/30/2002
      Approval: 06/04/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/24/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND
                                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:        José Luis Irigoyen                             Jeffrey Guttman
Team Leader at ICR:             Emmanuel A. James                              Emmanuel A. James
ICR Primary Author:             Oswaldo M. Patiño


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were: (i) to improve efficiency of road transportation in Nicaragua; (ii) to
improve management and implementation for road maintenance; and (iii) to strengthen the Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure's planning and programming capacity.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Due to the extensive damage to the road network caused by Hurricane Mitch, in October 1998, the
objective of assisting in the road sector reconstruction was incorporated. This change was made in response
to a request from the Government of Nicaragua for help in financing an Emergency Program for key
segments of the road network that had been damaged or destroyed by Hurricane Mitch. An amendment to
the loan, just at the start-up of the project, was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors, and the
equivalent of US$ 15 million was reallocated to finance this emergency program. Other characteristics of
the project such as the disbursement categories, the implementation arrangements and the investment cost
components remained unchanged throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives described above, the project included the following components: 1. Road
Rehabilitation. This component comprised the rehabilitation and improvement of approximately 120 km of
the Managua ­ El Rama road. The works were to be carried out in two distinct sections, namely the
Managua section from Portezuelo (km 5) to San Benito (km 34.3), and the Rama section, from Muhan (km
202.3) to El Rama (km 292.5). The intermediate sections between San Benito and Muhan, totaling about
170 km were to be rehabilitated under separate projects financed by DANIDA and IDB. 2. Road
Maintenance. This component included provisions for implementation of both routine and periodic
maintenance by contract. It consisted of: (i) piloting road periodic maintenance implementation by private
contractors, and (ii) expanding the routine road maintenance program by micro enterprises. The latter
sub-component included funds for training, promotional activities, training material, goods, equipment and
technical assistance (TA). 3. Consultant services, TA, training and studies. This included consulting
services to assist the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure (MTI) in the supervision of civil works,
preparation of engineering designs, and studies for road safety improvement and reforestation near the
Rama section. The project also included technical assistance aimed at: (i) strengthening MTI's planning
and programming capacity through the implementation of 3-year rolling investment plans based on
priorities defined by using the HDM model; (ii) improving the capacity of the MTI environmental unit; (iii)
installation of a Pavement Management System within the Directorate of Road Administration (DRA); (iv)
strengthening the management of road maintenance program by contract, including design, supervision and
staff training; and (v) the establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund (RMF).

3.4 Revised Components:
The revised component included the restructuring of project investments. Under the road rehabilitation
component, the Rama Section from Muhan to El Rama was cancelled (but it was subsequently funded
under the Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project CR-3464-NI). Then, the original funds were
reallocated for the Emergency Program. This program consisted of developing a workable plan for
reconstruction of affected transport infrastructure, specially focusing in road re-opening and repair plan for
trunk roads and bridges.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's design was consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy and transport sector work and
the Government's transport priorities. Also, it was well coordinated with other donors such as the IDB and
DANIDA. The project's implementation arrangements were well conceived and detailed in the PAD and in


                                                      - 2 -

the project's operational manual. Design of the project was based mainly on the experience and lessons
learned under the first road transport project (CR-2871-NI) which had been executed very satisfactorily.
Furthermore, the project design had a certain degree of flexibility which allowed it to respond to changing
needs.

This proved to be important to deal with emergencies, especially the contracting of local community
modules for emergency road maintenance and stabilization works during difficult times in rural zones.
Overall, the project was well designed and had adequate executing arrangements that were based mainly on
developing MTI technical directorates and staff, rather than a group of consultants working in a typical
Bank Project Implementation Unit.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project development objectives is rated highly satisfactory, because the project was
very well implemented despite the fact that this was a time period when Nicaragua was devastated by
natural emergencies as well as experiencing crippling economic and political crises. The original loan
closing date of June 30, 2003 was extended twice. The first extension to June 30, was included in a 2004
amendment in order to ensure the full completion of the project, whose implementation phase was affected
by natural disasters that were out of the control of the MTI and, at times, by the untimely provision of
counterpart funds. Virtually all of the intended project outcomes and outputs have been achieved, including
the implementation of the emergency program which had been broadened to include road restoration
assistance after the Masaya earthquakes and drought in Las Segovias. The final extension to June, 24 2005
was needed to permit the orderly completion of various studies.

It is important to mention that the project objectives were not changed because of lack of disbursements or
poor project performance, but rather in response to a crippling emergency due to Hurricane Mitch. The
project achieved its outcomes highly satisfactorily not only in terms of the original components, which
represented 53% of the credit amount, but also in terms of the Emergency Program, which represented
47%. Also, each component achieved effectively its outputs as planned and the IDA credit was fully
disbursed.

(a) Improving the efficiency of road transportation in Nicaragua. This objective has been achieved very
satisfactorily. The major civil works contract for the rehabilitation of the Pan American highway section
between Managua and San Benito, which also serves as the first link of the Managua-El Rama corridor,
was fully completed and in operation within the project implementation period and with no cost overruns.
This highway section, which inter-alia links Managua to the International Airport, forms part of the
strategic network connecting Nicaragua with other Central American countries, and is the principal road
for exporting products to neighborhood countries. It is the most heavily trafficked road in Nicaragua, with
upwards of 30,000 vpd in sections near Managua, and was a severely congested and highly inefficient
transit arterial prior to the widening and reconstruction works carried out under the project. Therefore, its
improvement responds to the original project objective to reduce transportation costs and travel times along
key trunk roads.

(b)Improving the management and implementation capacity for road maintenance. This objective has
been achieved highly satisfactorily. The focus has been on improving the planning and prioritizing of
annual rehabilitation and maintenance programs and on the training of MTI staff. The overall performance
was very good given the legislative approval and subsequent beginning of operations of the Road
Maintenance Fund (FOMAV), the continuation of excellent implementation of routine maintenance by



                                                     - 3 -

microenterprises and the introduction of periodic maintenance by private contractors.

The project supported preparation, approval and startup operations of the Road Maintenance Fund
(FOMAV) to help ensure sustainability of road investments in the sector. This has been a good
achievement. Now, FOMAV is pooling resources not only from the government but also from other
international organizations to carry out maintenance of core sections of the road network. Also, the project
assisted in setting up the executive secretariat in charge of managing the FOMAV as well as provided
technical assistance through the implementation of a pilot road periodic maintenance programs with private
contractors. The efficiency of the sector has improved considerably and it is better off due to the creation of
the FOMAV, which is fully operational, though not yet funded independently of the national budget.

Furthermore, the project successfully reoriented the Regional Highway Construction Agencies (COERCO)
to a role that is more complementay to the use of private contractors and away from the traditional priority
accorded by MTI to execution by force-account thereby leading to a reduction of staff levels and to
promoting a policy of contracting out road rehabilitation and maintenance works.

It is worth noting that with the restructuring of COERCO and the creation of FOMAV, the suppliers for
road improvement and maintenance works are now primarily from the private sector. Periodic and routine
maintenance is contracted for the most part. The road fund, underpins the financing and supports the
maintenance of the main road networks. In general terms, the suppliers are the entities responsible for road
improvement services, which include: design, construction and maintenance. These entities are selected
competitively and supervised by MTI or a private consulting firm. This has been a great achievement under
the first and second projects, considering the starting point of a socialist, command type economy where
there were little or no roles assigned to the private sector in the early 1990s.

With regards to road routine maintenance by contract, the project has continued supporting the use of
micro-enterprises for trunk roads through community organization. With project financing, eleven
micro-enterprises have been created and are fully operational providing services after the emergency
reconstruction phase and other road programs established by MTI.

(c) Strengthening the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure's planning and programming
capacity. This objective has been achieved satisfactorily. There was a strong training and institutional
development component to strengthen the capabilities of MTI in all aspects of planning and programming.
Personnel of several directorates of MTI, including those for land transportation, Dirección General de
Transporte Terrestre (DGTT), and for highways, Dirección General de Vialidad (DGV), were the main
participants of this component. The training programs covered inter alia project design and evaluation,
environmental and social assessments, planning, programming, and management. Emphasis was placed
also on organizing a program with a Nicaraguan University for about 23 staff members to complete a
master's degree in engineering and transport planning; this proved to be very well received and has left the
MTI with a cohort of staff with advanced degrees who can more effectively carry out their roles. In
addition, 14 staff have completed courses in the HDM and Road Economic Decision-making (RED) models
and have developed the appropriate project analysis and appraisal skills. Introduction of poverty
assessment and environmental screening as part of project prioritization were new areas for developing
MTI capacity. Under the project, MTI also developed manuals of practice that covered the environmental
and social aspects of road projects.

Technical tools such as geographic information and pavement management system and other tools for
transport planning, budgeting and financial management were developed or improved during project
implementation. One good example of technical assistance was the strengthening of the environmental unit


                                                       - 4 -

within MTI with newly trained staff; as a result, all major investments in the sector must now include an
environmental impact analysis. Originally, this was a very weak area, with few staff, inadequate budget,
insufficient facilities, and not fully integrated into the project preparation and implementation cycle.

(d) Assisting the Government in the Road Sector Reconstruction through an Emergency Program.
The project also achieved highly successfully and satisfactorily the implementation of the emergency
program formulated after Hurricane Mitch. This rating is justified because (i) basic transit was rapidly
restored in key corridor roads and included the design and rebuilding of several bridges and more extensive
road rehabilitation, including the removal of debris and patching of road sections; (ii) communication was
also restored on secondary roads, essential to resuming agricultural production as well as for the continuity
of activities of various economic sectors in the country; and (iii) private companies and community
members participated in the execution of works, generating short-term employment.

Another important outcome was the implementation of the Road Stabilization component of the Emergency
Program, whose goals were to: (i) restore transport infrastructure in selected zones; (ii) support
Nicaragua's poverty reduction strategy; and (iii) strengthen national private contractors. The IDA's
initiative in developing it through "adoquines" stabilization was not only an appropriate solution for
connecting networks (secondary and rural roads) but also a mechanism to generate productive short-term
employment, especially during difficult emergency situations. Other benefits included better quality of
maintenance, participation of small businesses, use of local materials, and minimal environmental impact
(see Box 1 below). These results were highly acknowledged by MTI and by other international institutions.
The Government subsequently embraced the road stabilization program and expanded it considerably with
the help of funds from other donors. Also, municipal authorities expressed their preference for this type of
solution and offered support for the road stabilization program.




                                                        - 5 -

Box 1. Adoquin (paving stone) roads can be targeted to the rural poor with significant spill-overs
Adoquinado was used immediately after Hurricane Mitch to restore 70.3 km of secondary and tertiary roads in a
cost-effective manner under the Hurricane Emergency program. The overall goal of the adoquine (small, octogonal
pre-fabricated paving stones) stabilization approach was to restore, in a timely and cost-effective manner, formerly
gravel paved secondary and rural roads that were literally shredded by Hurricane Mitch. Laying adoquines in the
road bed is a readily disseminated technique which enabled local enterprises to pave the winding roads in the
typically hilly terrain of the project areas in a manner consistent with road engineering requirements for complex
horizontal and vertical curves, superelevation, load bearing capacity, etc. Similar to traditional asphalt paving, the
adoquine program has yielded benefits such as reducing transport costs, eliminating health-threatening suspended
dust clouds, improving rural accessibility and transport services, and facilitating access to health, educational and
social services. Better still, adoquines provide most of these benefits at much less than half the cost of asphalt
paving; they also offer a better all weather surface than gravel roads. Adoquines are also more appropriate than
gravel surfacing for the transport needs of the poor because year-round the adoquined roads can more readily
facilitate walking, bicycling, or other non-motorized transportation (NMT) modes. The most important economic
advantages of adoquines are: (i) costs are lower than asphalt; (ii) roads require little maintenance; (iii) no major
equipment is required either to build or maintain them; (iv) the adoquin roads can resist floods better than asphalt;
(v) the technology is simple and the skills developed by local people can be applied to house building and/or
community projects; (vi) supervision costs are about one-half of those for an asphalt or gravel paved road; and (vii)
adoquin roads can be built faster than asphalt. In addition, both the production of adouqines and their placement
on the road bed are highly labor intensive operations. For example, the labor content of their placement has been
estimated to be as high as 45% of total cost. Unlike other pavement techniques, most of the labor force could be
unskilled. Adoquinado proved to be more than a cost-effective solution to improve rural accessibility and reduce
vehicle operating costs with little or no environmental impact. A beneficiary assessment highlighted the significant
spill-over benefits of adoquin roads, such as increasing utilization of health and educational facilities, improving
health status (by eliminating heavy dust clouds in the dry season and slippery/muddy surfaces in the rainy season)
and promoting job creation.The adoquinado pilot also promoted local development by using local materials, labor
and technology, and improved community and local involvement in planning and decision-making in sub-project
selection and design, potentially increasing sustainability in the long-run. In sum, adoquinado increases the
possibilities for providing all-weather roads for smaller, poorer population centers that would not normally have
enough vehicular traffict to qualify for the more costly asphalt road.
Source: Nicaragua Poverty Assessment Report No. 20488, 2001

As mentioned earlier, the Emergency Program was designed and implemented in the areas affected by
Hurricane Mitch as well as for roads damaged in areas affected by the earthquakes in the Masaya region,
and El Niño in Las Segovias. This component is rated so highly also, not only because of the excellent
outcomes but also because Nicaragua's emergency road reconstruction program was one of the best
implemented in a region where many of the countries that were affected by Hurricane Mitch also undertook
such emergency programs.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall assessment of the project outputs is rated as highly satisfactory. Under the Rehabilitation
component, the rehabilitation of the Managua ­ San Benito ­ San Lorenzo ­ Muhan ­ EL Rama road
(290 km) was to be executed under parallel financing of the IDA, IDB, and DANIDA, at a total cost of
US$ 72.1 million. The IDA credit was intended originally to finance the rehabilitation components for the
Managua ­ San Benito and the Muhan ­ El Rama sections, for which US$ 26.1 million were assigned.
Following the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, the section from Muhan to El Rama (90.5 km) was
cancelled due to the need to reallocate funds for the emergency program, and only the road section from
Managua (actually Portezuelo) ­ San Benito, totaling 29.3 km, was financed and completed very
successfully under this project by the end of 2002. This road section a major segment of the Pan American
Highway and had fallen into a state of severe disrepair; hence its rehabilitation was timely and
economically important. It is also worthwhile mentioning that the entire Managua - El Rama road was


                                                         - 6 -

eventually rehabilitated. The San Benito ­ San Lorenzo          and San Lorenzo - Muhan sections were
completed as planned under Danida and IDB-financed projects respectively, while the Muhan ­ El Rama
section was completed under the Third IDA Project (CR3464-NI).

Under the road maintenance component, there were three sub-components: (i) routine maintenance by
micro-enterprises (ME), (ii) periodic maintenance by private contractors, and (iii) maintenance works by
FOMAV.

In relation to the first sub-component, the goal was to form an additional 10 micro-enterprises to the 12
established under the First Project (CR2871-NI) and to maintain an additional 600 km of roads. Eleven
additional micro-enterprises were formed, serving slightly over 660 additional km per year. The
performance of the microenterprises has been very satisfactory and the project's routine road maintenance
goals are being met or exceeded. With regards to employment generation, the micro-enterprise program
employed 352 people, and produced indirect benefits for about 2460 persons. Among activities carried out
by the micro-enterprises are cleaning the roadway, clearing and building road drains, channeling run-off
water, cleaning bridges, controlling vegetation and clearing gutters and landslides.

With regards to the second sub-component, the Managua ­ Jinotepe segment of the Southern highway was
selected for periodic maintenance with participation of a private contractor. This was innovative for
Nicaragua because periodic maintenance was carried out previously only by the COERCO. With technical
assistance financed under the project, a feasibility study and standard procurement documents were
defined. During the implementation and due to road´s functional and structural conditions and to the traffic
demand (TPDA > 8000), it was decided to use new technologies, construction procedures and materials in
order to achieve a more durable performance for crack-filling, patching, and asphalt-covering works.
Works were concluded in April 2001 satisfactorily by the private firm, and periodic monitoring has been
conducted through the MTI's Pavement Management Unit (PMS). With these new construction procedures,
it can be stated that during the first two years no reflection cracks have appeared (with the traditional
method, cracks would be visible within six months). Thus, the results of this sub-component were
successful in terms of introducing the outsourcing for road periodic maintenance with the participation of
the private sector and the introduction of new technologies.

In relation to the third sub-component, an important achievement was the approval of the Law for the
creation of the Road Maintenance Fund (FOMAV) in late 2000. The establishment and initial operations
of the FOMAV were subsequently carried out very well and it has attained a positive public image. There
will be a gradual transfer of maintenance responsibilities from the MTI to the FOMAV and, so far, its road
maintenance programs cover the periodic and emergency needs of about 40% of the core network and are
co-financed partially by IDA and other donors. However, plans are underway to modify its enabling law so
as to make provisions for funding its programs through a dedicated fuel surcharge. This will help to ensure
the funding of FOMAV in a more predictable and sustainable manner and to extend its coverage to 100%
of the core network.

Under the Emergency Program component. The Emergency Program comprised mainly: (i) cleaning and
removal of bottlenecks along the damaged roads, so as to allow the resumption of land transport; (ii)
completion of the restoration of some of the affected roads. Most of the funds assigned were used in
restoring roads, bridges, and building temporary bypasses at or near former bridge sites. As mentioned
earlier, a very important component of the emergency program was the secondary road stabilization
program (implementation with adoquines). The emergency program was expanded to help restore and
repair damages caused to the road network by the Masaya earthquake and by El Niño in Las Segovias. The
restoration and repair strategy was geared to using unskilled labor. In order to implement this strategy, the


                                                    - 7 -

Borrower and IDA made arrangements to use emergency community modules, developed by MTI. Some of
the sub-projects or outputs developed are presented in the table below.

                           Subprojects                                          Emergency Program Outputs
                                                           Nº of Private Firms           Units           Estimated Total Cost.
                                                                Involved                 (kms.)               (US$000)

Restoration of Secondary Roads                                     17                306.5                  1,914.02

Strengthening of Corinto Sea Wall                                   1              15,000 m3                 81.98

Cleaning and Reopening of Trunk and Secondary Roads                40               1,081.5                 1,666.71
through Community Emergency Works Modules (MCTE)

Restoration of the Izapa ­ León ­ Chinandega Road                   1                  5                    1,273.61

Restoration of the Telica ­ El Jicaral ­ San Isidro Road            2                  99                   3,369.46

Bridge Protection at Tipitapa                                       2                                        934.64

Other Civil Works (bridges, bypasses, etc)                         23                 0.0                   2,479.02

Restoration of Trunk and Secondary Rural Roads with MCTT            3                 90.0                   72.42
Modules.

Pilot Road Adoquin Stabilization Phase I                           46                 52.0                  6,842.52

Pilot Road Adoquin Stabilization Phase II                          12                 18.3                  2,823.63

Restoration of rural tertiary roads                                28               1,027.22                4,821.25

Restoration of Trunk and Secondary Roads with MCTI                 15                 550                    346.72
Modules

                                                                                    3,229.30               26,625.98


Considering Bank/IDA experience elsewhere with the typically slow implementation of post- emergency
programs, the execution of the Nicaragua Hurricane Emergency Program was definitely an outstanding
success.

Under the technical assistance and institutional strengthening component, there were two
sub-components, one for goods and another for consultant services. The planned objectives of the TA, were
accomplished through the strengthening of the management of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), the
installation of a Pavement Management System, and the purchasing of equipment for the Environmental
Unit. This component financed the purchases of: (i) the transportation equipment necessary to monitor
rehabilitation and maintenance projects and emergency works; (ii) for PMS, specialized equipment
-RONDAS- to measure roughness, vehicle counting equipment, odometers and mobile scales for weight
control, in the road network; (iii) a Financial Administration Integrated System (SIAF) to improve project
administration. This system comprised improved internal control of operations related to procurement,
purchases, contracts, accounting, finance, disbursement, treasury, etc; and (iv) equipment for
environmental management. For this sub-component, US$ 1.1 million was programmed, and only US$ 0.26
was executed. The actual executed amount is lower because priority was accorded to the emergency
program.

Technical assistance for consulting services was focused mainly on: (i) technical assistance to the PCU; (ii)
design and supervision of the road maintenance program; (iii) strengthening of planning and programming
of MTI investment and maintenance plans; (iv) training and equipment for PMS, to supervise and analyze
the condition of the road network; (v) consulting for feasibility studies and road design; (vi) studies for
improvement of traffic safety, reforestation studies in the Rama area; and (vii) financial audits. For this
subcomponent, US$ 5 million was assigned and US$ 6.58 million executed with credit resources, plus US$
0.99 million of local contribution.



                                                                 - 8 -

Training and Institutional Strengthening component: the goals of this component were achieved very
satisfactorily. Directorates of MTI for planning, programming, supervision, and environmental
management (DGP, DGV, and UA) were strengthened. Their personnel has achieved experience in project
management and assessment systems, specialized measurement equipment, procurement norms and
procedures in compliance with IDA, and a strengthened PMS.

Also, micro-entrepreneurs were trained in road maintenance: organizational aspects, teamwork,
administration, programming, costs, accounting, report writing, legal and tax affairs, and administration of
their contracts. Apart from the advanced university training for a cohort of MTI engineers, an additional 34
national training events were conducted with an attendance of 342 people, and 13 international events with
the participation of 29 MTI staff. For this component, US$ 0.8 million was programmed, and US$ 0.38
million executed for institutional training and US$ 0.19 million for ME training.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Upon completion, the Borrower, having now developed the appropriate capacity, undertook ex-post
evaluation analysis using the same methodology and parameters as employed in the PAD. The internal
economic rate of return (IERR) for the road rehabilitation component was calculated and found to be
higher than expected, confirming that the road rehabilitation component achieved an acceptable level of net
benefits. For the Portezuelo ­ La Subasta, La Subasta ­ Airport, Airport ­ La Garita, and La Garita ­ San
Benito sections, the IERR were 64.3%, 54.5%, 176.4% and 60.1% respectively (see statistical tables
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits). The IERR are higher because the traffic of these sections increased
substantially from 10,000-20,000 vpd, on average, at appraisal to between 26,143 and 39,500 vpd. The
principal benefits in the "with the project" compared to the "without the project" include savings in vehicle
operating costs and in travel time for passengers, and in maintenance costs. Non-quantifiable benefits
include improvement in overall planning and programming procedures at MTI directorates.

Also, there will be significant road safety benefits due to the provision of wider shoulders to allow easier
access for motorists in location with high roadside vending activities and also to separate bicycle and
non-motorized traffic.

Road Stabilization (Adoquin) Program. The ex-post analysis was conducted using the RED model. The
data were derived by the Planning unit (traffic, irregularity, geometry and surface type) and by the Adoquin
Program unit (investment and maintenance streams). As a result of the assessment, an IERR of 45% was
determined, with a NPV of US$ 11.27 million at a discount rate of 12 percent and a 15-year period. The
measured road surface improvement was attained by reducing the road roughness index (IRI) to 5.3 m/km
in contrast to the IRI before adoquin stabilization, which was over 16 m/km. This translates into a
considerable reduction in vehicle operation costs.

The program yielded positive results related to: performance, reduction of future maintenance costs, road
stabilization and employment of local resources (materials and labor). the Government proposed that this
component be expanded as part of the Third and proposed Fourth projects.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Through this Second project, IDA gradually continued to provide a significant contribution to the
institutional development of the transport sector in Nicaragua. In particular the project: (i) assisted in
setting up the administrative mechanism for the Road Maintenance Fund that was approved in late 2000 by



                                                     - 9 -

the Government, as well as the creation of an institution in charge of the fund; (ii) improved the planning,
funding and implementation of the road maintenance system by introducing periodic and routine
maintenance through private contractors ­ this marked a significant departure from the typical MTI
approach of using only the state construction companies (COERCO) for periodic, routine and emergency
works; (iii) improved pavement management through training and installation of the Pavement Management
System; (iv) strengthened capacity to implement civil works and secured efficient private sector service
delivery through competition; (vi) supported a pilot road safety improvement study in key zones with high
levels of accidents, and (vii) supported the building capacity at MTI. In regard to the latter, the technical
assistance component of the project assisted the MTI in strengthening its road network planning and
programming, which allowed the staff to develop and manage, through private participation, an annual
rehabilitation and maintenance program. Also, the technical assistance provided training on road economic
analysis, environmental assessment and traffic safety analysis. As a result, MTI is carrying out road
investment analysis, incorporating detailed economic analyses through the use of HDM and RED models,
and carrying out environmental evaluations to define appropriate rehabilitation standards, their associated
economic worthiness, and environmental conditions for sustainable management of road improvement and
maintenance programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Hurricane Mitch. Heavy and unprecedented rainfall due to Hurricane Mitch partially delayed start up of
civil works of the Airport - San Benito section as well as other investment components during 1998-1999.

Deterioration of macro-economic situation contributing to shortage of local counterpart funds. After
Hurricane Mitch, IDA and other donor agencies took several measures to assist hurricane-affected
countries in dealing with their macro-economic situation, especially with their debt service obligations.
Also, for the economy of Nicaragua, it took several years to recover from the disaster and therefore, there
were some problems with the timely provision of the counterpart funds, that were particularly acute during
1999-2003 period.

Weak Capacity of Local Contractors and Consultants.At times virtually all local firms were employed
on the various programs and it was difficult for them to respond to the unprecedented demand for their
services. Even more demanding for them was the need to comply with IDA requirements. This became a
bottleneck as the effective capacity of local firms was less than the volume of output required. Since those
were small, scattered works were unnatractive to foreign firms and work proceeded well but slowly with the
local firms.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent turnover of key staff. During the implementation of the project, there were 5 Ministers and 7
Vice Ministers of MTI, 6 Directors of Highways and 2 Directors of Planning. Overall combined staff
turnover amounted to about 28 in the higher level staff in MTI dealing with the project. As a result,
decision making and implementation processes were affected throughout project implementation period. It
is worth noting that the changes in personnel did not weaken the Government's commitment to project
objectives.

Continuity of the Project Team at the PCU. Though changes took place within the MTI, the head of the
technical team in charge of the project execution was maintained, albeit in differing positions, ensuring
continuity of project activities and implementation.




                                                     - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PCU ability to adjust to changing circumstances. The project´s execution was designed in such a manner
that most of the work was supported and performed by the Ministry's directorates. Thus, the PCU showed
remarkable ability to adjust the project to face upcoming challenges not only due to changes in
administration but also to effective use of the resources available through reprogramming components and
planned activities accordingly due to the emergencies. This permitted successful progress in implementation
and in the achievement of project objectives.

Strong and productive dialogue between the MTI staff, IDA team and Donors. The quality of the
dialogue between the client and IDA and donors allowed the PCU to overcome the difficulties that appeared
in the early stages of project implementation. Between IDA and MTI teams, it was possible to adapt and
reformulate the project quickly and respond to the changing realities such as Hurricane Mitch, the
earthquake in Masaya, and the drought in Las Segovias, adjusting components and designing strategies to
overcome these problems.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs are given in Annex 2 (Project costs by Component). Despite the natural disasters that
affected the project during its implementation, the project costs were not significantly affected. The final
project cost was US$ 59.1 million distributed as follows: road rehabilitation, US$ 14.92 million; road
maintenance, US$ 9.01 million; Emergency Program, US$ 26.63 million; goods and materials, US$ 0.41
million; and consultant services and training, US$ 8.20 million. Similarly, the project was financed broadly
as originally envisaged during appraisal with IDA providing US$ 48.19 million (there was an appreciation
of the SDR during the project period) or about 81%, and the Government providing US$ 10.98 million or
about 19% of the costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project's outputs and outcomes is highly likely. First, the roads rehabilitated under the
project are economically viable and unlike in the past, there are arrangements in place for their maintenance
through the creation of the road maintenance fund. Second, other aspects of sustainability of outcomes that
are equally important were strengthened or put in place under the project; e.g., enhancement of local
management, planning and programming capacity, adoption of viable sector management strategies with
participation of the private contractors by MTI, capacity building at MTI directorates and the numerous
qualified small micro-enterprises capable of maintaining secondary and rural roads rehabilitated under the
project.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements for the project's future operation are well in place and are being currently secured
by a Third and proposed Fourth Bank-financed follow-up projects. Funds for the road maintenance
programs to be managed by FOMAV have been assigned not only from the government´s budget but also
from IDA, the IDB and other donor organizations. Institutional strengthening for the management of road
maintenance continues to be one of the priorities under the Third project. The Muhan-El Rama section of
the Atlantic corridor, not rehabilitated under the Second project, was completed subsequently under the
Third project. New micro enterprises have been created and staff training continues to be one of key actions
to be performed under the third project. In addition, IDA continues to promote long-term sustainability of
the FOMAV by supporting amendments to its enabling law that could help to assure its funding.




                                                    - 11 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. Overall, the IDA's performance during preparation was satisfactory. It engaged in fruitful
dialogue with the Borrower and together they prepared the Second IDA-financed operation drawn from
lessons learned in the First project. Project design was based on economic and sector work and
appropriately responded to Nicaragua's priorities and policies. There was a strong IDA effort to coordinate
its interventions in key road corridors of the transport sector with ongoing efforts from other international
financial organizations, particularly DANIDA and IDB.

7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory. In October 1998, Hurricane Mitch devastated Central America killing about 9,000
people, leaving over 1 million homeless, causing massive damage to social and economic infrastructure and
severely impacting the productive capacity of affected countries, especially Nicaragua and Honduras. IDA
and the project team reacted very quickly to this event and responded with a strategy that involved
assistance for short to medium-term road restoration programs. The IDA team, from the first day following
the emergency, worked closely with the Government and MTI staff and the donor community in assessing
damages, determining priorities and identifying sources of emergency financing. The task team promptly
reprogrammed the ongoing Second Project and reallocated the funds needed. The emergency program
designed with government counterparts was very successful and the amount reallocated was fully disbursed
and achieved its purpose of restoring transitability to the road network in Nicaragua. Moreover, the project
team was very creative by carrying out the reconstruction of many of the secondary and rural roads
damaged by the hurricane and earthquake through the adoquin stabilization pilot.

The IDA team carried out numerous missions, supervising project implementation while providing
technical assistance and advice to MTI. IDAprovided training for the procurement and financial
management team of the PCU, thus promoting fiduciary compliance during project implementation. Also,
IDA provided especial training in the use of HDM and the RED models to perform economic analysis for
the staff of the MTI.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
IDA performance was highly satisfactory. This rating is supported by the project results and the
achievement of objectives. One notable aspect was the task team performance which included not only its
prompt and successful response to the damages of the hurricane, an earthquake, and a drought at Segovia,
but also its ability to retain the project objectives, and to maintain cost control and targets using project
supervision despite external emergencies, political changes, and the adverse macro-economic climate that
prevailed for most of the project´s implementation period.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during the preparation stage is rated highly satisfactory. This rating takes into
consideration that the Borrower, through MTI, carried out all project preparation activities, such as
engineering designs and procurement related activities. The evaluation of road components used
methodologies previously designed and tested during the First road project.

In particular, good use was made of the HDM III and RED models for economic analysis of the proposed
road segments. MTI staff showed their strong support and great commitment to this project from the start.




                                                     - 12 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance was highly satisfactory. In terms of implementation of the
emergency program, the Government showed good management and strong commitment to implementing it
within a reasonable period of time. It also showed adequate capacity to coordinate both the emergency
works as well as the implementation of Managua ­ El Rama Road with other donors. This required
coordinating the financing and implementation of multiple donor supported projects over a 3 year period.
Furthermore, the government response showed strong commitment to implementing the institutional reform
required to: (i) reduce gradually the regional construction parastatals (COERCO), (ii) improve the
organization and management of MTI and (iii) provide sustainable maintenance arrangements for the road
sector through the creation of the FOMAV.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the reconstruction phase and despite the devastation of the economic environment due to Hurricane
Mitch, the overall project management effort of the implementing agency was very good, and is rated
highly satisfactory. The MTI performed and acted very quickly and effectively in restoring the most
important transport links during emergencies. MTI successfully coordinated the assistance provided by
donor countries and international organizations.

Also, MTI was very proactive in addressing bottlenecks or other problems, finding solutions with suppliers
and contractors, and informing of results to stakeholders. This managerial capacity was key in achieving
the outcomes of the project. Furthermore, MTI organized workshops, training sessions with consultants,
contractors, suppliers and private banks to share lessons learnt. It is important to note that this approach is
now used widely for MTI projects, including those financed by other donors, throughout Nicaragua,
generating employment and removing bottlenecks at every stage of the project cycle.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance was highly satisfactory. The borrower fully "owned" the project from beginning to
end, despite changes in administration. The borrower managed the emergencies well and was a very
effective coordinator for the different donor's agencies involved with the programs needed to restore
economic conditions.

Also, it helped to establish the road maintenance fund, and provided employment through its organization
and management of emergency community modules and micro enterprises.

8. Lessons Learned

Importance of a continued presence in the transport sector. IDA continued presence in the transport
sector helped to enhance the supervision effectiveness and deepen understanding of transport issues. IDA
has had a presence in the sector only since 1997 but it has been continuous and in particular has pursued
the same objectives. This continued presence has permitted to strengthen the transport sector across the
board through the introduction of innovative road stabilization programs, sound highway periodic and
routine maintenance policies involving private sector participation and improving gradually MTI
performance as promoter, regulator and supervisor of the sector.

IDA proactive participation. Proactive supervision and restructuring of the project as soon as critical
emergencies occurred were essential to achieve the development objectives; in this particular case, at the
start up of the project, quick response for restructuring together with innovative solution for restructuring
components after emergencies was key to achieve not only transitability in the road network but also
providing the opportunity of generating productive short-term employment and deploying technologies that
were appropriate to Nicaragua.


                                                    - 13 -

Road Stabilization Adoquin Program. This type of program offers several important advantages
compared to other traditional road gravel or asphalt rehabilitation work methods. It reduces maintenance
costs, increases the participation of small local business, uses local technology, uses local materials and has
a very low environmental impact. In addition, it can be used as a mechanism to generate productive
short-term employment under difficult emergency situations such as the ones occurred under the project.

Relevance of Borrower's capacity to carry out donor coordination. When there is proper coordination
among donor agencies and institutional organizations, it can help to ensure that efforts are not duplicated
while providing leverage for investments. This requires strong capacity from the borrower's side. In the
case of the project, part of the achievements can be attributed to a good coordination between the borrower
and IDB, DANIDA, IDA and others. Thus, lending operations should take this aspect into consideration at
the start up of the project.

Success of micro-enterprises and indirect benefits. The micro-enterprises program was highly successful
and enabled many previously unemployed rural families to obtain a steady income while carrying out
economically justifiable road conservation works. Travelers and residents in the area have also supplied
anecdotal evidence of the benefits of their work such as improved visibility around curves, improved sense
of security, and less flooding from clogged drains. In addition the members of the micro-enterprises were
often the only organized, trained and available work force present in many zones that were isolated after
roads were severed by Hurricane Mitch. Their voluntary efforts not only in road clearing and opening, but
also for other emergency relief tasks were indispensable to providing initial assistance to their devastated
communities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

I. Introducción

El presente documento constituye el Resumen Ejecutivo del Segundo Proyecto de Rehabilitación y
Mantenimiento de Carreteras (Proyecto), correspondiente al Convenio de Crédito CR-3085-NI, suscrito
entre el Gobierno de Nicaragua (Prestatario) y la Asociación Internacional de Fomento (AIF) del Banco
Mundial (BM), el 08 de julio de 1998. Este documento ha sido elaborado sobre la base del Informe Final
del Proyecto presentado por la Dirección General de Vialidad del Ministerio de Transporte e
Infraestructura de Nicaragua en enero de 2005, el cual muestra las metas programadas y los resultados
actuales del Proyecto en los aspectos, técnicos, ambientales, económicos y legales; así como, los costos,
montos y adquisiciones realizadas para cada categoría y componente del Proyecto. También, presenta la
opinión del Prestatario respecto de los logros alcanzados, e información del sector Transporte.

El conocimiento y la experiencia adquirida en virtud del primer convenio de crédito CR-2871-NI han sido
la base para lograr las metas establecidas en este segundo Proyecto, en términos de la calidad de la gestión;
conocimiento del documento del Proyecto (PAD), del contenido del contrato de crédito, las normas y
procedimiento de adquisición de obras, bienes, consultorías, desembolsos, administración financiera y
auditoria. Ello ha permitido una eficiente y eficaz implementación del Proyecto.

El Proyecto tuvo como objetivo principal mejorar la eficiencia del transporte terrestre en Nicaragua y,
como objetivos específicos: (i) apoyar el programa de rehabilitación vial de Nicaragua, especialmente el
mejoramiento del tramo principal que une a la región Atlántica, (ii) mejorar la administración e
implementación del mantenimiento de carreteras, y (iii) continuar fortaleciendo la planificación y



                                                     - 14 -

programación en el Ministerio de Transporte e Infraestructura (MTI).

Cabe mencionar que como consecuencia del huracán Mitch, que afectó Nicaragua el 20 de octubre de
1998, se produjo un período de lluvias intensas, cuyos resultados fueron miles de fallecidos, casi un millón
de damnificados y un sector transporte que sufrió daños superiores a los US$ 150 millones. Frente a ello, la
AIF y el Gobierno de Nicaragua elaboraron un Programa de Rehabilitación Vial de Emergencia para la
reparación de puentes y carreteras de segmentos claves de la red vial destruida. El programa se oficializó
en el Convenio de Crédito a través de una enmienda (Componente Obras Viales de Emergencia) aprobada y
firmada por el BM y aplicada al Proyecto a partir del 1º de noviembre de 1998.

Igualmente, durante la ejecución del Proyecto, ocurrieron otros fenómenos naturales, como el terremoto de
Nicaragua y la sequía de Las Segovias, por lo que se implementó programas de restauración de caminos y
de adoquinado para estabilizar las vías de las zonas afectadas por estos fenómenos.

II. Valoración de los Objetivos de Desarrollo, Diseño y Calidad de Entradas

2.1. Objetivo original

Los objetivos del Proyecto son consistentes con el EAP Nº 17496 del 9 abril de 1998, cuyo objetivo general
era el de mejorar la eficiencia del sector transporte, apoyando e implementando un proyecto de
mejoramiento en la carretera principal, específicamente secciones del corredor Managua ­ El Rama;
mejorando la administración e implementación del mantenimiento de carreteras de forma planificada y
sostenible; continuando con el fortalecimiento de la planificación y programación de las actividades del
sector transporte del MTI, con la finalidad de que la infraestructura vial funcione como impulsador del
desarrollo económico de los sectores agropecuarios, comercio, turismo, etc. Asimismo, respaldar los
esfuerzos del Gobierno de Nicaragua, para llevar a cabo la transformación hacía una economía de mercado
con miras a obtener crecimientos sostenibles y reducir la pobreza.

2.2. Objetivo real

El Proyecto ha sido desarrollado de forma altamente satisfactoria. Se ha logrado los objetivos programados
y las metas físicas, financieras, ambientales y sociales.

Se mejoró el nivel de servicios a los usuarios -en cuanto a capacidad funcional y estructural- en la carretera
principal de Portezuelo ­ Aeropuerto ­ San Benito; se restauró rápidamente las vías dañadas por el Mitch,
lo que evitó grandes perdidas a la economía del país; se logró las metas físicas de mantenimiento periódico
y rutinario, contando con un mayor número de microempresas (28 en total) y con la participación del sector
privado en las actividades de mantenimiento periódico; y aplicando nuevas técnicas y materiales. Además,
se promulgó en el 2001, la Ley 355 del FOMAV como iniciativa para el establecimiento del mantenimiento
vial de forma planificada; se logró la reducción de la COERCO, tanto en tamaño como en su campo de
acción o competencia; se profundizó el fortalecimiento institucional del MTI, capacitando a su personal
mediante el curso del HDM, de la maestría de Transporte y otros cursos relacionados con las tareas del
MTI y con manejo ambiental; y se creó la Unidad de Adquisiciones en el citado ministerio; también, se
realizó el fortalecimiento institucional de las microempresas, capacitando a sus miembros con el objetivo de
que mejoren su organización y gestión.

Debido a la destrucción de vías principales y caminos secundarios producida por el huracán Mitch, se
modificó el componente Rehabilitación de la Carretera Muhan ­ El Rama y se reasignó los recursos en
función de la restauración de las vías declaradas en emergencia. El apoyo de la AIF ayudó a definir una


                                                     - 15 -

estrategia en dos fases para: (i) iniciar de inmediato las obras de restauración en los puntos críticos de las
vías; y (ii) completar las obras de restauración de dichas vías. Según la UCP, con recursos del crédito se
restauró más de 3 000 km de carreteras y caminos secundarios; además, se contó con la participación de
empresas del sector privado, microempresas, módulos comunitarios de trabajo de emergencia (MCTE,
MCTI, MCTT), etc. También se dio inicio al plan piloto de estabilización de vías secundarias dañadas por
el Mitch, por el terremoto de Masaya y la sequía de Las Segovias (52 km más 18 km), utilizando
adoquines, técnica mediante la cual se da una respuesta de largo plazo a los caminos rurales, se genera
empleo no calificado local, se disminuye los recursos para el mantenimiento y se impulsa el desarrollo del
sector privado, entre otros beneficios.

III. El Proyecto y sus Componentes

El costo estimado al tiempo de la evaluación del proyecto fue de US$ 54.1 millones, de los cuales US$ 47.4
millones corresponden al convenio de crédito CR-3085 NI, estos montos no incluyen impuestos ni gastos
operativos.   El crédito fue distribuido en 5 categorías, de la siguiente forma: 1) Obras civiles: (a)
Rehabilitación de la carretera Portezuelo ­ Aeropuerto de Managua (6.72 Km) y Aeropuerto ­ San Benito
(23.03 Km.), para un total de 29.75 Kms. (b) Rehabilitación de la carretera Muhan ­ El Rama (90.3 Km.)
no se realizó a causa de que estos recursos se utilizaron en obras de emergencias, (c) Mantenimiento
periódico (30 Kms), (d) Mantenimiento Rutinario (1,100 Km.), (e) Mantenimiento por el FOMAV, (f)
Obras de emergencias de restauración. 2) Bienes, 3) Servicios de Consultorías, 4) Capacitación
Institucional y Microempresas y FOMAV, 5) No asignados.

Por parte del Banco mundial, las secciones de Managua ­ Aeropuerto, Aeropuerto- San Benito han sido
finalizados con fondos del CR 3085NI, y la sección de Muhan ­ El Rama ha sido terminada con fondos del
CR-3464NI. La sección de San Benito ­ San Lorenzo, ha sido finalizada con recursos de DANIDA (US$
39.0 millones) y la sección de San Lorenzo ­ Muhan finaliza en el mes de Abril del 2005, con recursos del
BID (US$ 26.2 millones).

Los resultados de la implementación de este Plan de Emergencia (PE), fue altamente satisfactorio,
considerando que se cumplió con el objetivo primario de restablecer la comunicación a corto plazo en las
vías principales, un ejemplo de esto es la construcción del Puente de Tipitapa en tiempo record de 10 días,
permitiendo atender los aspectos sociales y la circulación de los productos agropecuarios en estas vías.
También, se restauró la comunicación en las vías secundarias permitiendo que hubiera continuidad con la
actividad en los sectores económicos del país. Igualmente, la implementación de programas con
participación de empresas privadas grandes y pequeñas, ejecución de obras pequeñas con miembros de la
comunidad, los cuales generaron mucho empleo (MCTT, MCTE, MCTI, ME), en consistencia de las
políticas centrales de generación de empleo y combatir la extrema pobreza.

Los servicios de consultoría y asistencia técnicas programadas son las siguientes: i) Asistencia técnica al
EAT, ii) diseño y supervisión al programa general de mantenimiento de caminos, iii) fortalecimiento a la
planificación y programación de los planes de inversión y de mantenimiento del MTI, iv) Capacitación y
equipamiento al PMS, para supervisar y analizar la condición de la red vial, v) consultoría para los
estudios de factibilidad y diseños de carreteras, vi) estudios para mejorar la seguridad vial, estudios de
reforestación en el sector del Rama y vii) auditorias administrativas financieras externas.

Para el fortalecimiento institucional, los resultados generales son los siguientes: se realizaron 34 eventos
nacionales con la participación de 342 participantes y 13 eventos internacionales con la participación de 29
funcionarios. El total es de 371 participantes con 47 diferentes cursos, seminarios y talleres.




                                                    - 16 -

En cuanto a la capacitación de las microempresas se han capacitado más de 352 socio de la ME de
mantenimiento vial. Los temas importantes de estos cursos y seminarios, están relacionados a los aspectos
organizativos, trabajo en equipo, administración, programación, costos, contabilidad, preparación de
informes, aspectos legales de impuestos y administración de sus contratos.

De manera general podemos mencionar que ha habido más de 28 cambios en 7 años, del personal de la
Dirección Superior, Direcciones Generales y Específicas. A pesar de ello, estos cambios no inducieron
afectaciones sustanciales para el funcionamiento del MTI., ya que la capacitación ha sido continua a todos
los niveles, y los técnicos del MTI, permanecieron al frente de las tareas más importantes de la gestión vial
y del MTI.

La evaluación económica de los tramos: Portezuelo ­La Subasta nos indica una TIR de 64.3%; para La
Subasta ­ Aeropuerto la TIR es de 54.5%; para Aeropuerto ­ La Garita es de 176.4% y para La Garita ­
San Benito de 60.1%. De acuerdo a otra configuración del mismo tramo, se calculó que para el tramo
Portezuelo ­ La Garita la TIR es de 182% y para La Garita ­ San Benito la TIR es de 60%, superiores a lo
47 y 22% que se calcularon inicialmente.

La rentabilidad global esperada con los proyectos de inversión contemplados en el convenio CR-3085 NI
con un monto de US$ 26.7 millones de dólares se estimó en 23.5% de TIR con un VAN de US$ 14.8
millones. En cambio, la situación real refleja que habiendo invertido US$ 15.392 se obtienen indicadores en
el orden de 71.2% de TIR y US$ 67.143 millones de VAN

Para los caminos rurales estabilizados con adoquines, se procedió a realizar el análisis haciendo uso del
modelo RED. Para dicho análisis se utilizó información suministrada por el PMS (Tránsito, Irregularidad,
Geometría y Tipo de Superficie) y Oficina del Programa de Adoquinado (Costo de Construcción por
kilómetro). Como resultado de esta evaluación se obtuvo una TIR de 45% con un VAN de 11.274 millones
de dólares a una tasa de descuento del 12% y un período de 15 años. Obteniéndose una mejoría en
irregularidad de hasta 5.3 m/Km. en contraste del IRI inicial antes del adoquinado que es superior a 16.0
m/Km., representado una disminución considerable en los costos de operación vehicular.

IV. Experiencias y Resultados Obtenidos Durante la Implementación del Proyecto

El Proyecto logró todas las metas y objetivos planteados en términos de rehabilitación, mantenimiento y
fortalecimiento institucional; a pesar de un inicio dificultoso debido a los daños sustanciales existentes en la
red vial primaria y secundaria.

En cuanto al componente Rehabilitación de la Carretera Portezuelo ­ Aeropuerto - San Benito, se ha
obtenido muy buenas experiencias relacionadas con los procesos constructivos (reciclaje y estabilización) y
el tipo de material utilizado; ello ha permitido obtener costos menores en comparación con los procesos
tradicionales. Se ha podido introducir, en este tipo de proyecto, el manejo de los impactos sociales por
medio de un estudio especifico de impacto social, lo cual evitó que el Proyecto tuviera efectos negativos;
También, se implementó obras para mejorar la seguridad vial, tanto de los peatones como de los vehículos
motorizados y no motorizados.

Respecto al mantenimiento periódico, se ha obtenido mejores rendimientos de los materiales utilizados, lo
que permite duplicar la vida útil de este tipo de intervención. Se introdujeron nuevas tecnologías para
Nicaragua como el uso de emulsiones asfálticas con un aditivo látex para el sellado de grietas, y para el
bacheo y el revestimiento asfáltico, mezclas asfálticas en caliente con asfalto AC-20 más un aditivo para
mejorar la adherencia del mismo.


                                                     - 17 -

El fortalecimiento y la continuidad de los programas de mantenimiento rutinario por medio de
microempresas permite atender más de 1 800 km de carreteras y generar empleo permanente a más de 450
cabezas de familia y beneficios indirectos a más de 2 500 personas. Con relación al fortalecimiento de la
empresa privada, tanto contratistas como consultores han adquirido mayores experiencias y conocimientos
en proyectos viales. La capacitación del personal del MTI redundó a favor de su fortalecimiento
institucional, pues se demostró calidad en la gestión de sus funcionarios (y de los del BM) para atender
situaciones de emergencias (huracán Mitch) y sus daños colaterales, en términos de comunicación,
coordinación y manejo de los contratos. Al finalizar el Proyecto, el MTI tiene más de 23 ingenieros
capacitados mediante la Maestría de Transporte, más de diez funcionarios capacitados en el HDM-3 y 4 y
a través de múltiples cursos y talleres, lo cual permite que el personal brinde una mejor atención y que los
resultados sean de mayor calidad, considerando el tiempo y costo.

Otros logros son el fortalecimiento de la Unidad Ambiental y la formación de la Unidad de Adquisiciones
en el MTI; la promulgación de la Ley del FOMAV; el diseño e implementación del sistema integrado de
administración de proyectos; el estudio de la reforestación de la microcuenca de Mohagany, como una
medida compensatoria por los impactos producidos por la rehabilitación de la carretera Managua ­ El
Rama; y el fortalecimiento del área de planificación del MTI.

V. Papel del Banco Mundial

El papel del BM en el fortalecimiento del sector transporte ha sido importante; en especial, respecto al
desarrollo y modernización del la red vial, como un factor indispensable para el progreso económico y
social del país. La participación del BM ha sido excelente durante las fases de identificación,
implementación y evaluación final del Proyecto, el cual contiene los elementos indispensables para el
desarrollo del sector: rehabilitación, mantenimiento, fortalecimiento institucional, etc.

Durante la emergencia producida por el Mitch, el BM apoyó el diseño y la gestión de la estrategia para la
restauración de las obras, de la asignación de recursos y de las misiones de evaluación y supervisión. En la
preparación del Convenio de Crédito, participaron más de siete de sus especialistas, bajo la coordinación
del Task Manager del sector transporte para Nicaragua. Durante la implementación del Proyecto, se
realizó más de 31 misiones de evaluación, supervisión y de identificación; de las cuales nueve estuvieron
relacionadas con el Mitch. El apoyo del BM fue determinante en la restauración de las vías en corto tiempo
y, consecuentemente, en el reinicio de la comunicación y la disminución de los impactos sociales.

La comunicación con los especialistas del BM ha permitido fortalecer los conocimientos y adquirir
experiencias útiles para el sector transporte.

VI. Papel del Prestatario

El papel del Prestatario durante la implementación del Proyecto fue satisfactorio: participó con los
funcionarios del BM y con los consultores externos en la preparación e implementación del Convenio de
Crédito y en la adecuación de los objetivos del mismo -en términos de categoría, componentes y
subcomponentes- a los objetivos del gobierno central. Igualmente, su participación durante la etapa de
legalización del crédito y cumplimiento de las condiciones previas al primer desembolso fue muy efectiva y
posibilitó que a finales de 1998, se realizara el primer desembolso para poder hacer frente a los costos de
las obras de emergencia.




                                                     - 18 -

El Prestatario logró las metas físicas y financieras, cumpliendo con las normas y procedimientos del BM e
incluyendo los aspectos ambientales en los procesos constructivos de los proyectos ejecutados.

Los atrasos iniciales en el Proyecto -consecuencia de los daños producidos por el Mitch- llevaron al
Prestatario, a través del MTI, a solicitar que se postergue la finalización del Convenio de Crédito, de junio
de 2003 al 24 de junio de 2005. Esto le ha permitido cumplir principalmente con el componente de la
Rehabilitación de caminos.

El Prestatario ha cumplido en términos de fomentar y aprobar la Ley del Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial
(FOMAV), como parte de los objetivos planteados originalmente en el Convenio de Crédito. No obstante,
es necesario reformar dicha ley para garantizar el recurso financiero que permita la sostenibilidad del
sistema total de gestión vial.

Asimismo, el Prestatario ha dado una especial atención entre los años 1998-2002 a la red vial, lo cual se
observa en la asignación de recursos al sector transporte para restaurar los daños del huracán Mitch, cubrir
la contrapartida local para los créditos con los donantes y el mantenimiento vial El detalle de los recursos
asignados se encuentra en el Informe Final del Proyecto.

Cabe mencionar la gestión de la UCP fue altamente satisfactoria en la administración de los componentes
del proyecto y en la continua coordinación interna y externa con las dependencias de la DGV, para ejecutar
los componentes del Proyecto y tratar los correspondientes aspectos de planificación, ambientales,
fortalecimiento institucional y conservación vial durante la implementación del Proyecto.

VII. Resumen de los Resultados

En general, las estrategias, políticas, objetivos y metas propuestos en el Informe del PAD, con sus
enmiendas, fueron implementados altamente satisfactorios. Las obras civiles de rehabilitación, restauración
y mantenimiento contribuyeron a la expansión y mejoramiento del servicio de transporte, reducción del
COV (Costo Operativo Vial), seguridad en la red vial principal y secundaria. También, se ha logrado un
relativo fortalecimiento técnico y gerencial del MTI.

El análisis económico de los proyectos de obra civil muestra que se logró las tasas de crecimiento y la
rentabilidad de forma aceptable y que las tarifas de transporte disminuyeron en términos reales. También,
la seguridad y los aspectos ambientales y sociales se han cumplido.

Durante la ejecución del Proyecto, el MTI ha implementado mejoras en su organización al fortalecer la
Unidad Ambiental, crear la Unidad de Adquisiciones, fortalecer la planificación, el PMS, etc. y capacitar a
sus recursos humanos para mejorar la atención de los usuarios y hacer más competitivo el sector
transporte.

VIII. Operaciones Futuras

Actualmente, se ejecuta el tercer Convenio de Crédito CR-3464NI, por un monto de US$ 75 millones.
Mediante éste, se modernizará y rehabilitará carreteras principales en los tramos Las Piedrecitas ­ Izapa y
Muhan ­ El Rama; se realizará obras de mantenimiento rutinario, periódico, AT, asesorías para el diseño y
supervisión, el fortalecimiento de las funciones de planificación y la estabilización de vías rurales
(adoquinado).




                                                     - 19 -

También, se está diseñando una cuarta operación de crédito similar a la anterior, cuyos objetivos guardan
relación con el mejoramiento del transporte terrestre que se necesita para el desarrollo de clusters lecheros,
de carne, turísticos, etc., para mejorar el desarrollo económico, generar empleo y fortalecer el sistema de
mantenimiento de caminos.

IX. Factores que Afectaron la Implementación y Resultados del Proyecto

Entre estos factores, se encuentran: (i) debilidad de los procesos de planificación. Es necesario fortalecerlos
integralmente para atender los proyectos con los temas ambientales, sociales, costos, indicadores
económicos adecuados, en consistencia con lo señalado en la fase de factibilidad; (ii) baja incidencia,
durante la fase de diseño del proyecto, en la utilización de procedimientos constructivos y nuevos
materiales. Ello haría obtener mejores resultados en el costo, tiempo y calidad; (iii) revisión insuficiente de
los documentos de licitación en correspondencia con las normas del BM y la Ley 323 de Nicaragua; (iv) los
consultores de diseños y supervisión de obras no se hacen responsables por sus resultados y productos; (v)
la capacitación en el MTI no se realiza continua y permanente, lo cual es necesario debido a la rotación del
personal para garantizar la transmisión de conocimientos; (vi) la asignación de recursos de aporte local
para los créditos con la AIF no siempre se realiza en correspondencia con la asignación o ejecución de
fondos externos del crédito; (viii) falta aprobar la reforma de la Ley del FOMAV (355 del 2000) para
establecer las fuentes de financiamiento de forma segura, sustancial y continua; y (viiii) hace falta la
asignación de recursos financieros por parte del Gobierno de Nicaragua para el mantenimiento rutinario
por medio de microempresas.

X. Relación del Proyecto con la Estrategia del Banco Mundial en el País y en el Sector

El Proyecto fue consistente con la Estrategia de Asistencia de País al atender la red vial de forma integral
para que sirva de apoyo a los otros sectores de la economía, además de disminuir el desempleo y así
contribuir a la lucha contra la pobreza. Cabe destacar que el Proyecto ha ayudado a recuperar y conservar
el patrimonio vial y al fortalecimiento institucional del MTI.

XI. Relación del Proyecto con el Plan de Gobierno del Prestatario en el Sector

El Gobierno de Nicaragua dirige sus esfuerzos a desarrollar planes en la infraestructura del país para
fomentar el desarrollo económico, establecer programas para reducir los índices de pobreza urbana y rural
y utilizar los recursos en forma efectiva y eficiente.

Como paso fundamental, a través del MTI, el Gobierno de Nicaragua ha adoptado programas de
mantenimiento rutinario con módulos comunitarios y el programa de adoquinado propuesto por la AIF, ya
que éste permite la estabilización eficiente de las vías, reduce los costos de mantenimiento futuros y utiliza
recursos nacionales, como mano de obra calificada y no calificada. En términos macroeconómicos, esto
implica una reducción de la utilización de divisas, pues sólo el programa de adoquinado se cubre con
recursos locales en un 84 por ciento.

También, se ha estado cumpliendo con el Acuerdo de Reestructuración Institucional ­ ARI, el cual fue
suscrito por funcionarios del Gobierno de Nicaragua y funciona bajo la Vicepresidencia de la República. El
ARI incluye entre otros compromisos: (i) la reingeniería de los procesos institucionales; (ii) el inventario de
la infraestructura de transporte; (iii) el programa de capacitación institucional; (iv) la reestructuración y
modernización de la COERCO; (vi) la implementación del Sistema de Evaluación de Servicios; y (vii) la
implementación del FOMAV. El MTI ha cumplido con estos compromisos y se espera llegar a profundizar
en ellos.


                                                      - 20 -

XII. Supervisión del Banco Mundial Durante la Ejecución del Proyecto

El BM ha efectuado más de 31 misiones de evaluación, supervisión y control, gestión y apoyo, el
prestatario manifiesta que el apoyo prestado ha sido excelente en los varios proyectos de rehabilitación y
mantenimiento vial a la fecha. Además, cabe mencionar que frente a los desastres naturales, la Misión del
BM actuó inmediatamente y apoyó intensamente en la reestructuración del Convenio CR-3085- NI, en la
asignación de fondos para programas de emergencias y en la ejecución de las actividades de emergencia,
logrando resultados altamente satisfactorios.

XIII. Situación Actual de los Compromisos Contractuales y del Plan de Acción Adquirido por el
      Gobierno ante el Banco

Se cumplió todos los compromisos y metas incluidos en el Convenio de Crédito. Se sobrepasó las metas en
varios aspectos, ya que se incluyó nuevas actividades y se expandió las metas físicas. Específicamente, en
el programa de mantenimiento, se implantó los módulos MCTE, MCTI, MCTT y se creó más
organizaciones comunitarias, de lo previsto inicialmente, para el mantenimiento rutinario.

Igualmente, se estableció las bases para un programa de estabilización de vías secundarias utilizando
adoquines, lo que posibilitó la atención de los caminos secundarios en las zonas de emergencia, utilización
de materiales locales, generación de empleo y fortalecimiento del sector privado.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a
  Annual Road Maintenance Targets
               Item                         1999   2000     2001   2002   2003   2004    2005
                                                                                        (prop)
1. MTI Road maintenance budget      Target   12     14       16     20
(US$ mill)
                                    Real    21.2   32.7     22.6    8.4   9.58   13.7    11.5
2. Amount allocated to contracts    Target   2.4    4.6      6.4   10.0
(US$ mill)
                                    Real     8.7   14.9      9.5    5.0    2.4    4.2    2.0
3. % Budget allocated to contracts  Target   20     30       40     50
                                    Real    41.0   45.6     42.1   59.7   25.1   30.7    17.4
4. Km. maintained by contract
4.1 Routine Maintenance
4.1.1 Paved
Microenterprises                    Target  400    1,000    1,500  2,000
                                    Real    819    1,065    1,954  1,972  1,885  1,954  1,367
Other                               Target  150    200      400    600
                                    Real
4.1.2 Unpaved
Microenterprises                    Target  100    200      300    400
                                    Real    1,593  341      424    813    396    437     201
Other                               Target  400    400      600    1,000
                                    Real    1,043  1,409     45
              Total                Target   1,050  1,800    2,800  4,000
                                    Real    3,455  2,815    2,423  2,785  2,281  2,391  1,568
4.2 Periodic Maintenance
4.2.1 Paved                         Target   50    100      130    200
                                    Real     99    18.5      16                   23     96.6
4.2.2 Unpaved                       Target   75    100      125    200
                                    Real
              Total                Target   125    200      255    400
                                    Real     99    18.5      16      0      0     23     96.6
5. Cost by contract
(US$ Mill)
5.1 Routine Maintenance
5.1.1 Paved
Microenterprises                    Target   0.4    1.0      1.5    2.0
                                    Real     0.7    1.0      1.6    4.4    2.0    1.9    1.1
Other                               Target   0.2    0.3      0.6    1.0
                                    Real     2.0
5.1.2 Unpaved
Microenterprises                    Target   0.1    0.2      0.3    0.4
                                    Real     1.9    0.7      0.4    0.6    0.4    0.4    0.2
Other                               Target   0.3    0.6      0.9    1.6
                                    Real     1.2   10.7      4.9
              Total                Target    1.0    2.1      3.3    5.0
                                    Real     5.8   12.4      6.9    5.0    2.4    2.3    1.3
5.2 Periodic Maintenance
5.2.1 Paved                         Target   1.0    2.0      2.5    4.0
                                    Real     2.9    2.5      2.6    0.0    0.0    1.9    0.7
5.2.2 Unpaved                       Target   0.4    0.5      0.6    1.0
                                    Real
              Total                Target    1.4    2.5      3.1    5.0
                                    Real     2.9    2.5      2.6    0.0    0.0    1.9    0.7




                                                      - 22 -

  Annex 1b
  Key Performance Indicators/Log Framework
                        Key performance indicators                            Appraisal      Restructured           Actual
                                                                               Estimate
   A. Road Rehabilitation                                                        Km.             Km.                 km.
   Managua Section
    Portezuelo ­ San Benito                                                      29.3            29.3               29.72
   El Rama Section
    Muhan ­ La Gateada                                                           20.0          Cancelled           Cancelled
    La Gateada ­ Esperanza                                                       61.3          Cancelled           Cancelled
    Esperanza ­ El Rama                                                           8.9          Cancelled           Cancelled
   B. Road Maintenance
   Km maintained by contract
    Routine maintenance                                                         9,650                               17,718
    Periodic Maintenance                                                          980                                253
   C. Studies
   Technical Assistance to the Technical Support Team                                                              Executed
   Design and supervision of the overall Contract Maintenance Program                                              Executed
   Improvement of planning and programming in the MTI                           Study          1 Study             Performed
   Installation of the Pavement Management System                                                                  Executed
   Preparation and updating of detailed engineering and for the supervision     3 Study        3 Study             Executed
   of components A and B
   Road Safety improvement                                                      Study            Study             Performed
   Reforestation near the Rama Section                                          Study          1 Study             Performed
   Institutional strengthening to MTI                                          Training       47 Seminars          Executed
                                                                                            371 participants
   Microenterprises and RMF                                                    Training    1,118 participants      Executed
                                                                                          28 ME, 40 MCTE, 3
                                                                                           MCTT y 15 MCTI
   ME: Microenterprise, MCTE: Emergency Relief Community Module, MCTT: Earthquake Relief
   Community Module, MCTI: Flood Relief Module.

   Annex 1c
   Condition of the Road Network
         Type of surface                           Year                                          Kilometers
                                                                           Length         Good                Fair             Bad
Paved                                              1998                    1,717           103                464             1,150
                                                   2004                    2,096           985                657              554
Unpaved ­ Transitable all year                     1998                    7,152           418                1,936           4,798
                                                   2004                    9,033           78                 1,610           7,345
Unpaved ­ Transitable in dry season                1998                    8,277            -                   -             8,277
                                                     2004                  7,429            -                 614             6,815
Total                                              1998                    17,146          521                2,400           14,225
                                                   2004                    18,658         1,063               2,881           14,714




                                                                          - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a
 Project Costs Estimated at Appraisal
            Component              Appraisal Restructured   Actual    Percentage of
                                   Estimate                Estimate     Appraisal
1. Road Rehabilitation                30.7       10.6        14.92        140.07
Managua Section                       10.6       10.6        14.92        140.07
  Portezuelo-Airport                  3.4        3.2         7.71         240.9
  Airport-San Benito                  7.4        7.4         7.21          97.4
El Rama Section                       20.1                    0.0
2. Road Maintenance                   11.1       11.0        9.01          81.9
(a) Road Stabilization                4.0        4.0         4.92          123
(b) Routine Maintenance               4.1        4.1         4.09          99.7
(c) RMF Works                         2.9        2.9          0.0
3. Goods and Materials                0.7        1.3         0.41          31.5
4. Consultant Services and            7.0        5.9         8.20          139
Training
5. Emergency Plan                                17.6        26.63        151.3
6. Unallocated                        5.2        8.1           0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    54.5       54.5        59.17        108.6


Annex 2b
 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million)

     Expenditure Categories                            Procurement Method
                                                        Appraisal Estimate
                                      ICB       NCB         Other     NBF            Total
1. Rehabilitation                     33.6                                            33.6
                                     (28.6)                                          (28.6)
2. Maintenance                                   7.6          4.5                     12.1
                                                (6.5)        (3.6)                   (10.1)
3. Emergency Plan
4. Equipment                                     0.2          0.5                     0.7
                                                (0.2)        (0.4)                   (0.6)
5. Consulting Services                                        8.1                     8.1
                                                             (8.1)                   (8.1)
TOTAL                                 33.6       7.8         13.1                     54.5
                                     (28.6)     (6.7)       (12.1)                   (47.4)




                                               - 24 -

Annex 2c
 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual Estimate) (US$ million)

      Expenditure Categories                           Procurement Method
                                                         Actual Estimate
                                     ICB         NCB         Other    NBF            Total
1. Rehabilitation                   14.92                                            14.92
                                   (12.40)                                          (12.40)
2. Maintenance                                   4.92         4.09                    9.01
                                                (3.35)       (2.95)                  (6.30)
3. Emergency Program                             26.63                               26.63
                                                (22.08)                             (22.08)
4. Equipment                                     0.20         0.21                    0.41
                                                (0.12)       (0.14)                  (0.26)
5. Consulting Services                                        8.20                    8.20
                                                             (7.15)                  (7.15)
TOTAL                               14.92        5.12        39.13                   59.17
                                   (12.40)      (3.47)      (32.32)                 (48.19)



 Annex 2d
 Project Financing by Component (US$ million)

            Component              Appraisal Estimate         Restructured          Actual
                                  IDA    Govt.   Total   IDA     Govt.   Total IDA   Govt.  Total
1. Road Rehabilitation            26.1    4.6     30.7    9.0     1.6    10.6  12.40  2.52  14.92

Managua Section                    9.0    1.6     10.6    9.0     1.6    10.6  12.40  2.52  14.92
Portezuelo-Airport                 2.7    0.5     3.2     2.7     0.5     3.2  6.95   0.76  7.71
Airport-San Benito                 6.3    1.1     7.4     6.3     1.1     7.4  5.45   1.76  7.21
El Rama Section                   17.1    3.0     20.1    0.0     0.0     0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0
2. Road Maintenance                9.2    1.9     11.0    9.2     1.8    11.0  6.30   2.71  9.01
(a) Road Stabilization             3.4    0.6     4.0     3.4     0.6     4.0  2.95   1.14  4.09
(b) Routine Maintenance            3.3    0.8     4.1     3.3     0.8     4.1  3.35   1.57  4.92
(c) RMF Works                      2.5    0.4     2.9     2.5     0.4     2.9  0.0    0.0    0.0
3. Goods and Materials             0.6    0.1     0.7     1.1     0.2     1.3  0.26   0.15  0.41
4. Studies and Technical           6.1    0.0     6.1     5.0     0.0     5.0  6.58   0.99  7.57
Assistance
5. Training                        0.8    0.1     0.9     0.8     0.1     0.9  0.56   0.06  0.63
Staff Training                     0.3    0.0     0.3     0.3     0.0     0.3  0.38   0.02  0.40
Microenterprise & RMF Training     0.5    0.1     0.6     0.5     0.1     0.6  0.19   0.04  0.23
6. Emergency Program                                     17.6     0.0    17.6  22.0   4.5   26.5
Repairing of Roads and Bridges                           15.9     0.0    15.9  22.08  4.55  26.63
7. Unallocated                     4.7    0.4     5.1     4.7     3.4     8.1  0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                47.4    7.1     54.5   47.4     7.1    54.5  48.19 10.98  59.17




                                               - 25 -

Annex 2e
Financing (US$ million)

                           Estimated   %      Actual    %
IDA                          47.4      86     48.19     81
Local Counterpart             7.1      14     10.98     19
TOTAL                        54.5      100    59.17    100




                                     - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                                          Estimate                         Actual

        Component         Km.      Costs        NPV              Costs
                               (US$ thousands  (US$     IERR (US$ thousands    NPV       IERR
                                   /Km.)      million)           /Km.)     (US$ million)

A. Road Rehabilitation

Portezuelo ­ La Subasta    3.2                                  1450.47       17.009     64.3

La Subasta ­ Airport       3.5                                  1099.15       14.158     54.5

Airport ­ La Garita       3.60     220.00       2.0      87      298.13       14.224     176.4

La Garita - San Benito    19.70    200.00        3.2     22      298.13       28.233     60.1

Muhan - La Gateada        20.00    160.00        3.0     25

La Gateada - La Esperanza 61.30    150.00        5.5     20

La Esperanza - El Rama    8.90     175.00        1.1     22




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/1997                3    SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              01/19/1998                1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)

              02/02/1998                1    CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/25/1998                2    TASK MANAGER
                                             (1);LEAD COUNSEL (1)



              05/10/1998                2    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

              06/06/1998                1    I.T. TRANSPORT (1)

              05/17/1998                1    GIBBS CONSULTANT (1)

              05/25/1998                1    CONSULTANT (1)

              06/23/1998                1    CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              01/16/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              05/14/1999                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              06/22/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROJECTS ASS'T (1)
              10/10/1999                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              04/01/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              02/09/2001                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              06/15/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/17/2002                1    ENGINEER (1)                     S               S
              11/15/2002                3    ENGINEER (1); SOCIOLOGIST        S               S
                                             (2)
              04/28/2003                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              12/05/2003                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              08/18/2004                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S



                                              - 28 -

                                                                                   S
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               11/12/2004              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
               04/18/2005              2    CONSULTANT (1)
                                            TASK MANAGER (1);

 ICR
               04/14/2005             1     CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            11.3                           62.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   2.8                           8.7
  Supervision                          61.64                        310.42
  ICR                                   9.93                         58.03
  Total                                85.67                        439.35




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. PAD del 28 de abril de 1998.
 2. Convenio de Crédito 3085 NI, del 8 de julio de 1998.
 3. Informe de Evaluación Final, Segundo Proyecto de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento de Carreteras,
    Crédito CR-3085-NI, enero 2005
 4. Plan Nacional de Transporte 1998.
 5. Censos Nacionales 1995 INEC
 6. Estudios de mejoras y Rehabilitación Vial en Nicaragua JICA 1994.
 7. Enmienda de obras de Emergencias, de noviembre de 1998.
 8. Enmienda del 18 de junio del 2002.
 9. Ayuda Memoria: Misión de Evaluación de la Administración Financiera; Managua, Febrero de 1998.
10. Modelos de Cobros de Usuarios de Carretera - Costos de Usuarios de Carreteras, Nicaragua, Enero de
    1998.
11. Evaluación Socio Ambiental de la Rehabilitación de la Carretera Muhan - El Rama; M. Basterrechea,
    Programa de Rehabilitación Vial; Managua.
12. Programa de Rehabilitación Vial: Managua ­ El Rama, LAVIAL, versión 15 de febrero de 1998.
13. Estudio de Factibilidad para la Rehabilitación de la Carretera Managua - El Rama, Informe Final,
    Vols. I, II, III; enero 1997, Consultores CARL BRO Internacional A/S en asociación con CISCONCO
    Ingenieros Consultores.
14. Actualización del Estudio de Factibilidad para la Rehabilitación de la Carretera Managua - El Rama,
    Sección Santo Tomás-El Rama; junio 1997, Consultores Louis Berger Internacional Inc.
15. Proyecto de Mejoramiento de Carretera Managua - El Rama; Implicaciones para Traslado de Carga
    Marítima; Evaluación del Personal del Banco, marzo 1998.




                                                   - 32 -

- 33 -

