Report No. PID8179
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Second Road Rehabilitation ...
and Maintenance
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       NIPE53705
Borrower                         Government of Nicaragua
Executing Agency                 Ministry of Construction and Transport (MCT)
Managua, Nicaragua
Fax. No. (505) 228-1209
Financing Plan                   IDA:            US$39.0 million
Government:     US$10.0 million
Total Cost:     US$49.0 million
Year in Lending Program          FY98
Date this PID revised            January 14, 1998
Tentative Appraisal Date         April 1998
Tentative Board Date             June 1998
1. Background.  After more than a decade of decline or stagnation, the
Nicaraguan economy has turned around and been demonstrating consistent
GDPgrowth of about 4t per annum during 1994-97. The turnaround was due to
recovery in the agriculture sector and also to the Government of
Nicaragua's (GON) decision to implement an economic recovery program. The
process has not been without major problems as inefficiencies in some
sectors, especially the bottlenecks in the transport sector, have
adversely affected Nicaragua's export competitiveness. Economic growth can
not be sustained if key needs in the transport sector, especially in road
transport, are not addressed now.
2. Nicaragua's road network totals about 17,146 km and is divided into trunk,
collector, and rural roads. While its density (120 km/000sq.km) and
service index (4km/OOpop.) are the lowest in Central America, the key
road transport problem arises from the fact that only 13t of the network
is in good condition. The resultant mostly poor road conditions cause slow
travel times, excessive damage to vehicles and the attendant need for
imported spare parts, and high transportation costs that adversely affect
agricultural production, including export crops. Thus significant
benefits to the agriculture sector and to the economy as a whole, in terms
of employment generation, poverty alleviation, and the earning of much
needed foreign exchange, are foregone.
3. Project Objectives. The overall objective would be to improve the
efficiency of road transportation in Nicaragua. The proposed project
would also provide continued IDA support for road maintenance management
and for institutional strengthening that commenced under the ongoing
project (CR2871-NI). The specific objectives of the project are to (i)
improve the management and implementation of road maintenance; (ii)
strengthen planning and programming in the MCT; and (iii) support



Nicaragua's ongoing road rehabilitation program.
4. Project Description. The project's total cost would be about $49.0
million including contingencies, and it would be implemented during 1998-
2002. It would have the following main components: (a) Road
Rehabilitation: civil works, including rehabilitation of selected sections
of the Managua - El Rama road totalling about llOkm; (b) Road
Maintenance: components for the maintenance of about 1200 km of roads
using microenterprises and private contractors as well as for the interim
stabilization of the Rama road; and (c) Institutional and Training
Development: technical assistance, training, and studies, for which
consultant services will be retained to (i) assist with the implementation
of (a) and (b) above; (ii) improve road maintenance management, planning,
and operations in MCT; (iii) a study of the issues affecting the
efficiency of road transport in Nicaragua; and (iv) prepare future
projects.
5. Project Implementation. The project would be implemented by the Ministry
of Construction and Transport (MCT). Project monitoring indicators would
be agreed during project preparation. Annual and mid-term reviews would be
conducted.
6. Sustainability. Implementation of this project will lead to the practicing
of better planning, organization, and management procedures and
techniques. Important too would be the improved provision of funds for
road maintenance and the encouragement of greater participation by the
private sector in activities that have so far been reserved for
government agencies. The changes in practices and procedures are
sustainable individually and taken together, they can promote lasting and
highly beneficial changes in the road sector.
7. Lessons Learned. This would be the second IDA project in the transport
sector since the re-opening of lending operations. The experience under
this project has been quite satisfactory in terms of meeting development
objectives but, due largely to the recent elections and change of
government, the civil works progress has been less than expected. However,
the physical implementation is now rapidly gaining momentum. The
important factors that have contributed to this overall good performance
have been the high degree of project ownership and the commitment by the
Government. Also, the IDA experience in Nicaragua and elsewhere indicates
that emphasis should be placed on designing a balanced program that
focuses on the sustainable development of the institutions that manage the
sector as well as on the maintenance of infrastructure. These lessons
have been taken into account in the design of this project.
8. Poverty Category. It is expected that the project will not be included in
the Program of Targeted Interventions.
9. Participation: The project does not entail formal participation of
stakeholders either in its preparation or implementation. This is because
the trunk roads would be rehabilitated to previous standards and within a
long established right-of-way.
10. Environmental Aspects. A category 'B' rating has been assigned largely
because the project is for the restoration of a trunk road to pre-existing
-2 -



standards. The project will also be implemented in a manner that is
consistent with other IDA efforts to protect the Atlantic Biodiversity
corridor and it will include a forest restoration feasibility study.
11. Program Objective Categories. The main contribution of the project will
be to basic infrastructure upgrading and to public sector management
through the improvements expected in road network quality, in the sector's
institutional and technical framework, and in the capabilities of MCT
staff. The project belongs to the economic management category.
Contact Points:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Emmanuel James
Task Manager
(202) 458-2585
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 24, 1999.
- 3 -



