                                  IFiLa                                ' 1.-:
                                                                          '-
                                     (CZjal,a..a-.;i : .,..2-0               c
                                                                  -   .    ,.




                                        CREDIT NUMBER 3085-NI




Development Credit Agreement

  (Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)



                        between



            REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA



                           and



  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




        Dated       ,                      1998

                                                          CREDIT NUMBER 3085-NI


                      DEVELOPMENTCREDITAGREEMENT


        AGREEMENT, dated             2                1998, between the REPUBLIC OF
                                                     ,

NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).


         WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financingof theProject;


        (B)      the Borrower intends to receive from the Danish Development Agency
(DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $22,000,000 to
assist in financing Part A (2) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the DANIDAGrant Agreement)to be entered into between the Borrower and
DANIDA;


        (C)      the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $24,000,000 to assist in
financing Part A (3) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the IDB Loan Agreement)to be enteredinto betweenthe Borrowerand IDB; and


        (D)      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extendthe Creditto the Borrowerupon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;


        NOW THEREFOREthe partiesheretohereby agree as follows:


                                      ARTICLEI


                             General Conditions;Definitions


        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, datedJanuary 1, 1985,as amended through December 2,
1997 (the General Conditions) constitutean integralpart of this Agreement.

                                           -2-


         Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


         (a)     "First Development Credit Agreement' means the Development Credit
Agreement for the Prior Credit(as defined below) enteredinto betweenthe Borrower and
the Association on July 19, 1996;


         (b)     "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on
January 1;


         (c)     "Grant Agreement"means the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
Grant Agreement for GrantNumber 28361 (Atlantic Biological Corridor Project) entered
into between the Bank acting as Implementing Agency for the Global Environment
Facility and the Borrower on August25, 1997;


         (d)     "Indicators" means the impact, performance and implementation
indicators set forth in a supplementalletter of even dateherewith;


         (e)     "MCT" means Ministerio de Construcciony Transporte, the Borrower's
ministry of construction andtransport;


         (f)     "Microenterprises" means cooperatives or associations which shall have
been approved by the Association for purposes of carryingout routine road maintenance
activities under Part B of the Project;


        (g)      "National Assembly" means the Borrower's legislative branch,


         (h)     "Nicaraguan C6rdoba"means the currencyof the Borrower;


        (i)      "Prior Credit" means Credit No. 2871-NI set forth in the First
Development Credit Agreement;


        (j)      "RMF" means the fund to be establishedby the Borrower pursuant to the
RMF Law (as defined below);


        (k)      "RMF Law" means a law, substantially in the terms of the draft law
submitted to the Association on April 17, 1998, for the establishment and operation of a
fund to finance part of the Borrower's road maintenanceexpenditures;




                                                                                _______________________________
                                                                                          ~ ~~~~

                                           -3 -


        (1)      "RMF Works" means the spot improvement and other urgent
maintenance works to be carried out on roads which will be selected by the Borrower,
from its road outwork maintenanceplan, and approved bythe Association; and


        (m)      "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.



                                      ARTICLE II


                                       The Credit


        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million two hundred thousand Special
DrawingRights (SDR35,200,000).


        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financedout of the proceedsof the Credit.


        (b)      The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to
the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactoryto the Association including, in the
event the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordancewith the provisions of Schedule4 to this Agreement.


        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptlynotify the Borrower of such
laterdate.


        Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Associationa commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn fromtime to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent(1/2 of 1%)per annum.


        (b)     The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty davs after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts

                                             -4 -


shall be withdrawn by the Borrower fromthe Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately precedingthe accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set fromtime to time thereafterpursuantto paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


         (c)     The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) withoutrestrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditionsor in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.


         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4of 1%)per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstandingfromtimeto time.


         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15ineach year.


         Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs(b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15 and November 15 commencingNovember 15, 2008 and ending May 15, 2038.
Each installment to and includingthe installmentpayable on May 15, 2018 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount


         (b)     Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP),
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequentto the review and approvalthereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by:


                 (A)     requiring the Borrowerto repay twice the amount of each such
                         installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
                         shall have been repaid;and


                 (B)     requiring the Borrowerto commence repaymentof the principal
                         amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date

                                            -5 -


                         referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more
                         after the dateon which the Association notifies the Borrower that
                         the events set out inthis paragraph (b) have occurred, provided,
                         however,that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five
                         years on such repaymentof principal.


        (c)      If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repaymentmodification.


        (d)      If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repaymentto conform to the scheduleof installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.


        Section 2.08. The currencyof the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section4.02 of the General Conditions.


        Section 2.09. The Minister of MCT, or any person he or she may designate in
writing, is designated as representativeof the Borrower for the purposes of taking anv
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and ArticleV of the GeneralConditions.


                                      ARTICLE m


                                 Executionof the Project


        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carrv out the
Project through MCT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.


        (b)      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall: (i) open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an
account in Nicaraguan Cordobas in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions

                                           -6-


satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of managingthe counterpart funds referred
to in subparagraph (ii) below; and (ii) by no later than February 1, May 1, August I and
November 1of each year deposit in such account the counterpart funds required for the
implementation of the Project inthe followingthree months.


         Section 3.02. Except as the Associationshall otherwiseagree, procurementof the
goods, works, and consultants' services requiredfor the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


         Section3.03. The Borrower shall:


        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordancewith the Indicators, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectivesthereof;


        (b)      by no later than November 30 of each year, until completion of the
Project, furnish to the Association for its approval, an annual operating plan for the
implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve months, such plan to
comprise: (i) the main activities to be carriedout under the Project during the respective
year; (ii) the objectives, and expected results or outputs of such activities; (iii) the
corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including the counterpart funds; (iv) the
proposed revisions to the Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant institutional
arrangements and responsibilities;


        (c)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and
fumish to the Association on or about May 31 and November 30 each year, commencing
May 31, 1999 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
perfomned pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section. on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period precedingthe date of said report and setting
out the measures recommendedto ensure the efficientcarrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectivesthereof duringthe period followingsuch date;


        (d)      review with the Association: (i) by July 31 and January 3I each year, or
such later dates as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph
(c) of this Section; and (ii) by July 31, 2000 in addition to the reports referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section, the effectiveness and sustainability of the maintenance
program to be carriedout under Part Bof the Project.and


        (e)     thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievementof the objectivesthereof, based on the conclusionsand
recommendations of the said reports andthe Association's views on the matter.




                                                                                              I____
                                                                      _______________
                                                                     .

                                             -7 -


         Section.3.04.The Borrower shall ensure that routine road maintenance under    Part
B of the Project is carried out by community organizations and Microenterprises in
accordancewith proceduressatisfactoryto the Association.


         Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, allocate in and
make available from its annualbudget, and/or make available from the RMF if and when
established, the funds required, in amounts satisfactory to the Association, for the
maintenance of itsroad network.


         Section3.06. The Borrowershall:


         (a)     without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, include in its annual budget proposals submitted to the National     Assemblv,
the following minimum amounts to finance its program of road maintenance
implementedby contractors,includingMicroenterprisesand community organizations:


                 (i)     $2,400,000equivalent inFiscal Year 1999;


                 (ii)    $4,600,000equivalentin Fiscal Year2000;


                 (iii)   $6,400,000equivalent in Fiscal Year2001; and


                 (iv)    $10,000,000equivalent in Fiscal Year2002; and


         (b)    ensure that the following minimum kilometers of roads are annuallv
maintained through suchprogram of roadmaintenance:


                (i)      by no laterthan December 31, 1999, 1925kilometers;


                (ii)     by no laterthan December 31, 2000, 2000 kilometers;


                (iii)    by no laterthan December 31. 2001,3055 kilometers; and


                (iv)     by no laterthan December 31, 2003, 4,400 kilometers.


         Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall require all contractors carrying out works
under Part A of the Project to comply with environmental specifications acceptable   to the
Association, to include, inter alia: (i) the applicable environmentaland natural resource
legislation and regulations; (ii) explicit prohibitions and environmental        behavior
guidelines for work crews, especially for work along sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for

                                            -8 -


proper selection and management of quarries, borrowpits, gravelextraction along rivers,
and other sources of construction material, and eventual proceduresfor selection of camp
sites, management of camp wastes, and guidelines for camp dismantling and
abandonment; (iv) procedures for proper disposal of excavatedearth and spoil material to
avoid contaminating streams or causing other unnecessary damage; and (v) procedures
for proper disposal of waste from constructionmachineryand equipment.


        (b)      The Borrower shall, through MCT: (i) ensure that all bidding documents
and contracts for Part A of the Project incorporate the above environmental
specifications; and (ii) monitor compliance with such environmental specifications by
contractors.


        Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
without limitationthereto, the Borrower shall:


        (a)      prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later dateas may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and


        (b)     afford the Association a reasonable opportunitvto exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.


                                      ARTICLE IV


                                   Financial Covenants


        Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financing
management system includingrecords and accounts. and prepare financialstatements in a
format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures for and in connection with the carryingout the Project.


        (b)     The Borrower shall:


                (i)     have the records, accounts and financialstatements referred to in
                        paragraph (a) of this Section and the recordsand accounts for the
                        SpecialAccount for each Fiscal Yearaudited, inaccordance with
                        auditing standards acceptable to the Association consistently
                        applied, by independent auditorsacceptableto the Association;

                                        -9 -


             (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
                     not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A)
                     certified copies of the financial statements referred to in
                     paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B)
                     an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts
                     and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                     such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                     and


             (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                     said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning
                     said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time
                     reasonablyrequest.


      (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were madeon thebasis of statementsof expenditure,the Borrower shall:


             (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                     paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
                     reflecting such expenditures;


             (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
                     the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal
                     from theCredit Account was made, all records(contracts, orders,
                     invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                     expenditures;


             (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                     records;and


             (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
                     audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                     report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
                     as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
                     such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal
                     controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                     supportthe related withdrawals.

                                          -10-



                                      ARTICLE V


                              Remedies of the Association


         Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:


        (a)     The DANIDAGrant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1998 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditionsconsistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.


        (b)     The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June
30, 1999 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


        (c)     (i)     Subject to subparagraph(ii) of this paragraph:


                        (A)     the right of the Borrowerto withdraw theproceeds of the
                                DANIDA Grant or the IDB Loan or any other grant or
                                loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the
                                Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
                                terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                                the agreementsprovidingtherefor; or


                        (B)     any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
                                to the agreed maturitythereof.


                (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not applv if the
                        Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
                        (A) such suspension, cancellation,termination or prematuring is
                        not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform anv of its
                        obligations under the corresponding agreement; and (B)
                        adequate fundsfor the Project areavailable to the Borrower from
                        other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
                        obligations of the Borrower underthis Agreement.

         Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specifiednamelythat the event specified in paragraph (c) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreementshall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)
(ii) of that Section.


                                     ARTICLE VI


                              EffectiveDate;Termination


         Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development CreditAgreementwithin the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:


         (a)      the Borrower shall have opened the account referred to in Section 3.01
(b) (i) of this Agreement and shall have made a deposit of $100,000 equivalent therein:
and


         (b)      MCT shall have put intooperationa computerized system, satisfactory to
the Association, for theadministrative,financingand accounting control of the Project.


         Section 6.02. The date                 4    / P8         is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04of the GeneralConditions.



                                     ARTICLE VII


                      Representativeof the Borrower;Addresses


         Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03of the GeneralConditions.


         Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01of the General Conditions:

                                 -12 -


For the Borrower:

        Ministerio de Finanzas
        Frente al Edificiode la AsambleaNacional
        Managua
        Nicaragua

                                      Telex:

                                             2410

For the Association:

        International Development Association
        1818H Street,N.W.
        Washington, D.C.20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:                Telex:

                INDEVAS                      248423 (MCI) or
                Washington,D.C.              64145 (MCI)

                                        - 13-




       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names inthe District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and vear first
above written.



                               REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA




                               By /y5/       L L       C
                                                            AuthorizedRepresentative




                               INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                               By                   /A                  66A)_
                                                   /gr,;  GC,Regional Vice President
                                                    Latin Americanand the Caribbean

                                           -14-


                                     SCHEDULE 1


                        Withdrawalof theProceeds of the Credit


1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to befinanced in each Category:

                                           Amount of the
                                          CreditAllocated                    % of
                                        (expressed in SDR                 Expenditures
           Category                         equivalent)                  to be Financed

(1)        Civil works

           (a) under PartA.l                              )             85%
           of the Project                                 )
                                                          )
           (i) Portezuelo -                     2,000,000)
           Managua Airport                                )
           road section                                   )
                                                          )
           (ii) Managua Airport                 4,680,000)
           - San Benito road                              )
           section
                                                          )
           (b) under Parts A.4,                12,700,000)
           A.5 and A.6 ofthe                              )
           Project                                        )
                                                          )
           (c) for periodic                     2,520,000)
           maintenanceunder                               )
           Part B of the Project                          )
           (other than RMF                                )
           Works)                                         )

          (d)   for routine                      2,500,000             80%
          maintenance under
          Part B of the Project
          (other than RMF
          Works)

          (e)   for RMF Works                    1,860,000             85%

                                          - 15-



                                           Amountof the
                                          Credit Allocated                     % of
                                         (expressedin SDR                  Expenditures
             Category                       equivalent)                   to be Financed

(2)          Goods                                 400,000              100%of foreign
                                                                        expenditures and
                                                                        85% of local
                                                                        expenditures

(3)          Consultants' services               4,480,000              100%

(4)          Training

             (a) under PartC.2                     220,000              100%
             of the Project

             (b) under Parts C.3                   370,000              80%
             and C.4 of the Project

(5)          Unallocated                         3.470,000

             TOTAL                              35,200,000



2.       For the purposesof this Schedule:


         (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any countryother thanthat of the Borrower;


         (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or servicessupplied fromthe territory of the Borrower:


         (c)      the terrn "Training under Part C.2 of the Project" means the cost of
tuition, travel and per diem forMCT's staffrelated to the training referred to in Part C.2
of the Project; and


         (d)      the term "Training under Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project" means the
cost of fuel, oil, lubricants, spare parts and other costs of operating MCT's vehicles
assigned to cover the transportation needs related to the training of Microenterprises
under Part C.3, and the training of MCT's staff on the RMF under Part C.4, of the
Project, the fees and per diem of promoters of the Borrower's program of road

                                           -16-


maintenance by Microenterprises and the RMF, rent of sites to deliver the training,
printing of materials and other costs relatedto such training.


3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:


        (a)      payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR380,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1of this Scheduleon accountof paymentsmade for expenditures before that
date but after April 1, 1998;


        (b)      payments made for expenditures for the road section Portezuelo -
Managua Airport included in Part A.1 of the Project under Subcategory(1) (a) (i) of the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule unless the Association shall be satisfied with the
environmental assessment related to the Portezuelo-ManaguaAirportroad section;


        (c)      payments made for expendituresfor Parts A.2, A.3 or A.4 of the Project
under Subcateaory (1) (b) of the table in paragraph I of this Schedule unless the
Association shall have declared the Grant Agreementeffective;


        (d)      payments made for expendituresfor RMF Works under Subcategory (I)
(e) unless the RMF Law has been enacted and published in the Borrower's official
gazette; and


        (e)      payments made for training expenditures for Part C.3 of the Project
under Subcategory (4) (b) of the table in paragraph I of this Schedule unless the
allocations inthe Prior Credit for similar expenditureshavebeen fully committed.


4.      The Association may require withdrawalsfromthe Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statementsof expenditurefor expendituresfor:


        (a)      works for routine road maintenance under Part B of the Project under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent, after the first two contracts have been
approved by the Association;


        (b)      goods procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.I and C.2 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, after the first two contracts have been approved by the
Association;

                                        -17 -



       (c)     consulting firms and individual consultants under contracts costing less
than $50,000 equivalent; and


       (d)     training,


       all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specifv bv notice to
the Borrower.

                                           -18-


                                      SCHEDULE 2


                                Description of theProject


        The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency of road
transportation inNicaragua; (b) to improvethe managementand implementation capacity
of the sector;and (c) to strengthen MCT's planningand programmingcapacity.


        The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve        such
objectives:


Part A: Road Rehabilitation and Improvement


        Rehabilitation and improvementof the following sections of the Managua to El
Rama road: (1) Portezuelo - Managua Airport - San Benito, (2) San Benito    - Santa Rosa.
(3) Santa Rosa - Muhan, (4) Muhan - La Gateada. (5) La Gateada - La Esperanza,     and (6)
La Esperanza - El Rama.


Part B: Road Maintenance


        Routine and periodic maintenance, including RMF Works, of about 850
kilometers of trunk, secondary and/or feederroads.


Part C: Studies and TechnicalAssistance


        Provision of consultants' servicesfor:


1.      the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering for, and the
supervision of, the road rehabilitation, improvementand maintenanceworks      to be carried
out under Parts A and B of the Project;


2.      the strengthening of MCT's capabilities (including training  of its staff) for: (a)
the preparation of economically justified road improvement programs;          and (b) the
management of the maintenance of the road network;


3.      the training of Microenterprisesin the maintenanceof roads;


4.      implementation of the RMF and training relatedthereto; and

                                          - 19-



5.      the carrying out of studies for the improvement of road safety and reforestation
near the city of El Rama.




        The Project is expectedto becompleted by December 31, 2002.

                                         - 20 -



                                     SCHEDULE 3

                       Procurement and Consultants'Services


SectionI.       Procurement of Goodand Works


Part A: General


         Goods and works shall be procured in accordancewith the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995and revised in January and August 1996and September 1997
(the Guidelines) andthe followingprovisions of this Section.


Part B: Intemational CompetitiveBidding


I.       Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1thereto.


2.      The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordancewiththe provisionsof paragraph I of this Part B.


        (a)     Grouping of Contracts


        To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and for works shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 and $1,500.000 equivalent or more each,
respectively.


        (b)     Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic
Contractors


        The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.


        (c)     Notification and Advertising


        The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

                                         -21 -


Part C: Other ProcurementProcedures


1.      National CompetitiveBidding


        Goods and works estimated to cost lessthan $150,000and $1,500,000equivalent
per contract, respectively, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 and
$7,600,000 equivalent, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the
procurement of goods and works under the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower
shall use standard bidding documentssatisfactoryto the Association.


2.      Shopping


        Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.


3.      Direct Contracting


        Works for routine maintenanceunder Part B of the Project costingthe equivalent
of $100,000 or lessper contract, may be procuredfrom Micro-enterprisesand community
organizations residing in the respective area in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.


Part D: Reviewby the Association of ProcurementDecisions


1.      Procurement Planning


        Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts. the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be fumished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordancewith
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.


2.      Prior Review


        (a)     With respect to:

                                           -22 -


                  (i)    each contractfor: (A) goods and works procured pursuant to the
                         provisions of Part B.] hereof; and (B) for works procured
                         pursuantto the provisionsof PartC.I hereof; and


                  (ii)   the first two contracts for goods procured pursuant to the
                         provisionsof Parts C.1hereof;


        the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1to the Guidelines
shall apply.


        (b)       With respect to the first two contracts for goods and works procured
pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3 hereof, the following procedures shall
apply:


                  (i)    prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any
                         contract under shoppingprocedures, the Borrower shall provide
                         to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of
                         quotationsreceived;


                 (ii)    prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct
                         contracting,the Borrower shallprovide to the Association a copy
                         of the specificationsandthe draftcontract;and


                 (iii)   the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of
                         Appendix 1to the Guidelines shallapply.


3.      Post Review


        With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1to the Guidelines shall apply.


SectionII.       Employmentof Consultants


PartA: General


        Consultants' services shall be procured in accordancewith the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines)and the following provisions of
Section II of this Schedule.

                                          - 23 -



Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection


1.      Except as otherwise providedin Part C ofthis Section, consultants' services shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordancewith the provisions of Section II of
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants.


2.      The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordancewith the provisions of the preceding paragraph:
the short list of consultants for servicesestimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract may compriseentirely nationalconsultantsin accordancewith the provisions
of paragraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.


Part C: Other Procedures for the Selectionof Consultants


1       Quality-based Selection


        Services under Parts C.2, C.3 and C.5 of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordancewith theprovisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the
Consultant Guidelines.


2.      Selection Under a Fixed Budget


        Services under Part C.2 (b) of the Project which are estimated to cost less than
$100,000equivalent per contractmav beprocuredunder contracts awarded in      accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs3.1 and 3.5of the ConsultantGuidelines.


3.      SelectionBased on ConsultantsQualifications


        Services under Part C.4 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs3.1 and 3.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines.


4.      Single SourceSelection


        Services under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project which are estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

                                          - 24-



4.       Individual Consultants


         Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines.


Part D: Review by the Associationof the Selectionof Consultants


1.       Selection Planning


         Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordancewith the provisions of paragraph I
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall
be undertaken in accordancewith such selection plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisionsof said paragraph 1.


2.       Prior Review


         (a)     With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1,2 (other than the third subparagraphof paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix
I to the Consultant Guidelinesshall apply.


         (b)     With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of
$100,000, the procedures set forthin paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the ConsultantGuidelines shall apply.


         (c)     With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be
awarded only after saidapproval shall havebeen given.

                                           - 25 -



3.      Post Review


        With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments shall
be furnished to the Association for its priorreview andapproval.

                                          - 26 -




                                     SCHEDULE4


                                     SpecialAccount


1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:


         (a)     the term "eligible Categories"means Categories (1) through (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1of Schedule I to this Agreement;


         (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services requiredfor the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of ScheduleI to this Agreement;and


         (c)     the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,provided. however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstandingspecialcommitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.


2.       Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordancewith the provisionsof this Schedule.


3.       After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened,withdrawals of the AuthorizedAllocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenishthe SpecialAccount shallbe made as follows:


         (a)     For withdrawals of theAuthorizedAllocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requestsfor depositinto the SpecialAccount of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall. on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


         (b)     (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                        fumish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
                        Account at such intervalsas the Association shall specify.

                                           r 27 -


                (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                         furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
                         required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                         payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                         requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
                         shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                         Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                         the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                         by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
                         the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
                         shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
                         under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
                         equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                         documentsand other evidence.


4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.


5.      Notwithstandingthe provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not berequired to make further deposits into the Special Account:


        (a)     if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordancewith the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;


        (b)     if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnishedto the Associationpursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accountsfor the SpecialAccount;


        (c)     if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions;or


        (d)     once the totalunwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuantto Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

                                                                                              -U




                                           -28 -


Thereafter, withdrawal fromthe Credit Account of the remainingunwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the SpecialAccount as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


6.      (a)       If the Association shall have deternined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) anamount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such depositor refund, as the case may be.


        (b)       If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstandingamount.


        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the fundson deposit in the Special Account.


        (d)      Refunds to theAssociation made pursuantto paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be creditedto the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.

INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                     CERTIFICATE




  I hereby certify that the foregoingis a true copy of
  the original in the archives of the International
  DevelopmentAssociation.




                               FOR SECRETARY

