                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: 54874-ME




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                         ON A

         PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING



                                IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                   4.5 MILLION
                          (US$5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                   MONTENEGRO


                                          FOR

 MONTENEGRO ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE TOURIST AREAS PROJECT
                     (CREDIT NO. 38230)



                                  November 22, 2010



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2010)
                         Currency Unit       = Euro
                              1.0 Euro       = US$1.2288
                              1.0 US$        = 0.814Euro




                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB      European Investment Bank
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EU       European Union
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOM      Government of Montenegro
MESTAP   Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project
MOSPE    Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment
MJC      Multi Municipal Joint Solid Waste Company
MJC1     Multi Municipal Joint Solid Waste Company - Lovanja
MJC2     Multi Municipal Joint Solid Waste Company - Mozura
PEW      Public Enterprise Regional Waterworks Company `Crnogorsko Primorje'




                       Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                     Country Director:   Jane Armitage
                      Sector Manager:    Wael Zakout
                    Task Team Leader:    Sanyu Lutalo
                                                 MONTENEGRO

       ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING FOR
   MONTENEGRO ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE TOURIST AREAS
                         PROJECT

                                                    CONTENTS


Project Paper Data Sheet .................................................................................................. i 
I.  Introduction .............................................................................................................. 1 
II.      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing .......................................... 2 
III.     Proposed Changes ................................................................................................ 5 
IV.      Economic and Financial Analysis of Cost Overrun or Financing Gap ................ 6 
V.       Appraisal of Restructured Project ........................................................................ 7 
VI.      Expected Outcomes ............................................................................................ 11 
VII.  Benefits and Risks .............................................................................................. 11 
VIII.        Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing ...................... 12 
Annex 1: Revised Results Framework .......................................................................... 16 
Annex 2 ­ Estimated Costs for Proposed Additional Financing .................................. 19 
Annex 3 ­ Procurement Plan ........................................................................................ 20 
                                  PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

Date: November 22, 2010                      Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo
Country: Montenegro                          Sector Director/Manager: Peter Thomson /
Project Name: Montenegro Environmentally     Wael Zakout
Sensitive Tourist Areas Project ­ Additional Country Director: Jane Armitage
Financing                                    Environmental Category: B
Project ID: Original Project ID: P079116;
Additional Financing Project ID:P120659
Borrower: Montenegro
Responsible Agency: Crnogorsko Primorje (Regional Water Company PEW)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)1
FY               2004      2005     2006       2007     2008    2009     2010    2011      2012
Annual           0.06      0.56     1.31       0.40     0.30    0.01     0.01    4.60      6.30
Cumulative       0.06      0.62     1.93       2.33     2.63    2.64     2.65    7.25      13.55
Current closing date: December 31, 2010
Revised closing date: June 30, 2012
Does restructured or scaled-up project require exceptions from Bank policies? X Yes No
                                                                                 2
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    X Yes No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     X Yes No
Revised project development objectives/outcomes: Not applicable.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                                     For Additional Financing
[X] Loan [ ] Credit [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
                                                                             3
        Total Bank financing Euro 4.5 million (US$ 5.5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms: Fixed Spread Loan repayable in ten years, including a grace period of four years.
                                  Financing Plan (Euro m.) (AF)
                     Source                            Local          Foreign          Total
         4
Borrower                                                1.6              0              1.6
IBRD                                                    2.5             2.0             4.5
Total                                                   4.1             2.0             6.1
                         Financing Plan (Euro m.) (Original Project + AF)
                     Source                            Local          Foreign          Total
Borrower                                                1.6              0              1.6
IBRD                                                    2.0             2.5             4.5
IDA5                                                    1.3             2.5             3.8
Total6                                                  4.9             5.0             9.9




1
  Projected 2011/2012 disbursements assuming additional financing approval and extension of closing date.
2
  Managing Director endorsed request for policy waiver on May 4, 2010; Board approval is required.
3
  Exchange rate has fluctuated due to the volatility of the US dollar, but was originally based on US$6.0
million equivalent.
4
  Includes mainly taxes and duties, which will be financed by Government.
5
  Undisbursed balance of existing Credit amounting to about US$5.1 million.
6
  Government will meet cost of taxes and duties included in this amount.

                                                    i
I.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks approval from the Executive Directors to provide
additional financing of 4.5 million to Montenegro for the Environmentally Sensitive
Tourist Areas Project (MESTAP), Credit Number 38230. The proposed additional
financing would support completion of the regional sanitary landfill for the Bar and
Ulcinj Municipalities (Mozura Landfill) under Project Component 1 (Environmental
Infrastructure) and the provision of equipment for the operation of the regional sanitary landfill.
Originally, the Project was to be co-financed by the Government of Montenegro and the
Bank, but after the 2009 global financial crisis, the Government became unable to co-
finance from its budget, leading to an unanticipated financing gap. The financing gap
further increased due to price escalations caused by the devaluation of the Euro against
the dollar and changes in landfill design due to a change from the original landfill site
envisaged at appraisal. Therefore, the Government and the Municipalities of Bar and
Ulcinj have jointly requested the proposed additional financing to cover their budget gap.

2.      The Government additionally requested that the project be restructured to drop
outstanding activities under Project Component II (Environmental Rehabilitation) in
order to fully leverage available Bank resources for the sanitary landfill. The dropped
activities would comprise the closing of two remaining uncontrolled and unsanitary waste
disposal sites in Bar and Ulcinj, which will now be financed through a recently approved
European Investment Bank (EIB) funded solid waste management program being
implemented in parallel. World Bank funding for the dropped activities would be re-
allocated to Component I to complete the landfill. This change entails a restructuring of
the original credit.

3.      In addition to the scaling down of Component II by dropping the activities
relating to closing of the two uncontrolled and unsanitary waste disposal sites, the
restructuring of the original Credit would also involve: (a) revision of the Results
Framework and monitoring indicators to reflect the dropped activities in Component II,
in particular a change in the relevant outcome/impact indicator target from: `Four current
municipal disposal sites properly closed' to `Two current municipal disposal sites
properly closed'; (b) re-allocation of the funds saved from Component II to Component I
for construction of the Mozura landfill; (c) a change in the description of Component I in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to reflect the fact that the regional landfill in
Bar would be constructed at a new location and not on a rehabilitated existing site as
originally envisaged; (d) a change in the percentage of expenditures eligible for financing
to allow for 100 percent financing for all categories in line with updated country
financing parameters; (e) amendment of Schedule 5 of the DCA, Terms and Conditions
for the Sub-credit and Project Implementation Agreement, to reflect that repayment
provisions for the sub-credit only apply to the Multi-Municipal Joint Solid Waste
Company Lovanja (MJC1) and the sub-credit and project implementation agreement
related to MJC1; (f) extension of the Credit closing date from December 31, 2010 to June
30, 2012; (g) alignment of procurement procedures with the procurement procedures of
the additional loan; and (h) removal of MJC2 current audit provisions to align the



                                                1
Development Credit Agreement with the additional loan. The Development Credit
Agreement will be amended to reflect the above, including related changes.

II.     BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

4.      Context and Background: Montenegro's beautiful coastal area is a major tourist
destination in the region. During appraisal for the original Project, pollution from poor
solid waste management posed a major threat to the tourism industry in coastal
municipalities, and this threat remains. The Project responded to Government priorities
to improve solid waste collection and disposal services in several coastal municipalities
including Kotor, Budva, Tivat, Bar and Ulcinj. Project design was aligned with the main
elements of Government strategy for the sector, which included, inter alia, support for a
regional approach to solid waste disposal. The World Bank Board of Directors approved
MESTAP on September 11, 2003. The US$9.5 million Project became effective on April
8, 2004: US$7.0 million was to be financed through an IDA Credit and US$2.5 million
was to be financed by Government.

5.     Consistency with CAS: Activities to be financed through the proposed additional
financing are consistent with Montenegro's FY07-10 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which identifies European Union (EU) accession as a national priority. Progress towards
accession depends in part on Montenegro's ability to harmonize with EU standards for
environmental management, including solid waste disposal.

6.      Progress to date: During the first few years of implementation, Project
performance was satisfactory with respect to both likelihood of achieving the
development objective (DO) and implementation progress (IP). MESTAP progressed
with implementing the Environmental Infrastructure Component in the northern coastal
Municipalities of Kotor, Budva, and Tivat. An existing uncontrolled unsanitary waste
dumpsite located at Lovanja in Kotor Municipality was rehabilitated, and the first phase
of a new regional sanitary landfill was constructed to serve the three municipalities. The
Lovanja regional landfill, which was designed to be implemented in three phases, was
successfully operated by MJC17 established through the Project, resulting in
establishment of an effective model for management of solid waste on a regional level in
Montenegro. The Project also financed the closing of two uncontrolled waste disposal
sites in Tivat and Budva, reducing environmental degradation, as well as trucks,
containers, and equipment for solid waste collection and disposal for the Kotor, Budva,
and Tivat Municipalities, which has improved waste collection and disposal and overall
environmental quality in the area.

7.      The Lovanja landfill was however granted a temporary license by the
Municipality of Kotor to operate for an initial three year period on the understanding it
would be renewed after the Municipality's spatial and detailed urban plans were updated
to allow for construction of a long-term landfill, which would authorize construction of

7
 The Multi Municipal Joint Landfill Company Lovanja, jointly owned by the Municipalities of Budva and
Kotor and Crnogorsko Primorje (PEW) was registered as a limited liability company on July 7, 2003.


                                                  2
subsequent phases. It had to close in 2009 after four years of operation because the
Municipality of Kotor at the time declined to renew the license to allow for construction
of a second cell due to a change in its position regarding use of the site, apparently linked
to the so-called `not in my backyard (NIMBY)' concerns. Since 2009, environmental
legislation in Montenegro took effect, requiring all municipalities to dispose of their
waste in sanitary landfills and several coastal municipalities including Kotor, Budva,
Tivat and Bar have had to incur very high economic costs to dispose their wastes in the
sanitary landfill in Podgorica under temporary arrangements until they are able to
construct their own. Plans are now underway to update Kotor's Spatial Plans by
December 2010 in order to allow for construction of a long-term regional landfill for the
northern coastal municipalities with EIB financing, based on the same model to be
managed by the Lovanja Landfill Company. Construction of this landfill is envisaged to
start around mid-2011 and it is likely to be operated by the Lovanja landfill company
established through MESTAP.

8.      Lessons drawn from the Kotor experience have been considered in designing the
Mozura landfill: (a) the importance of ensuring adequate political buy-in for long-term
engagement by all stakeholders--in the Mozura case extensive dialogue and
consultations were held with key stakeholders and their commitment will be confirmed
through signing of a legally-binding Service Agreement between the beneficiary
municipalities and the landfill company which would be valid for the design life of the
Mozura landfill ­ the signing of such Service Agreement will be an implementation
covenant in the DCA and Loan Agreement to be met prior to commencement of
construction of the Mozura landfill; (b) investment in a landfill with reasonably large
capacity that would be operated over a longer term--the Lovanja landfill was designed
for a capacity of four years (Phase 1), but the Mozura landfill has been designed for a
capacity of 25 years without recycling, in four phases, with Phase 1 designed for ten
years. In spite of the above challenges, the waste collection and disposal system
established through the project in Kotor, Budva and Tivat continues to function
effectively using the trucks and equipment purchased through the Project to transport the
wastes to Podgorica after recycling8 using equipment purchased through the project.

9.      Construction of the second regional landfill for the southern coastal
Municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj ­ the Mozura Landfill- on the other hand, was
significantly delayed because, until late 2008, the stakeholders failed to reach agreement
on an acceptable location. Before the proposed Mozura site was identified, three other
sites were considered and eventually rejected due to public and political resistance. The
project IP rating was subsequently downgraded to unsatisfactory and between June 2007
and March 2008 disbursements were suspended by the Bank pending agreement on a
suitable site and implementation of an action plan to complete preparatory activities for
the landfill. The Municipality of Bar finally provided the Mozura site9, which was
endorsed by all key stakeholders and gazetted for this purpose in the Municipality's

8
    The recycling plant at Lovanja currently handles only wastes from Kotor and Tivat municipalities.
9
  The land is officially owned by the State of Montenegro, but Bar Municipality was provided with the
right to use it under existing Spatial Planning laws.


                                                      3
approved Detailed Urban Plan. Preparatory work, including the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) was completed, and the tender for landfill design and construction is
ready for award and signature once the financing is approved. A multi-municipal landfill
management company jointly owned by the Municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj (Mozura
D.o.o or MJC2) was established and registered in Montenegro's commercial court to
operate the landfill once it is constructed. A Service Agreement between the
municipalities and the Mozura D.o.o has been drafted and is to be executed by
construction as an implementation covenant prior to commencement of construction. In
spite of this progress, the Project's IP rating is maintained as Moderately Unsatisfactory
due to the existing financing gap since the contract cannot be awarded until adequate
financing is available to complete the landfill.

10.     The rating for likelihood of achieving the Project Development Objective (PDO)
is Moderately Satisfactory; this rating considers achievements in establishing an effective
solid waste collection and disposal model, reduction on environmental degradation and
improvement in environmental quality in the Kotor, Budva, and Tivat areas of the coast,
as well as the potential for creating ecologically and commercially sustainable solid waste
disposal services in Bar and Ulcinj if additional financing is approved and the new
landfill is completed as planned. The likelihood of achieving the PDO is enhanced by the
strict enforcement of the 2009 environmental legislation, under threat of penalties,
requiring that all municipal waste be disposed of in sanitary landfills which has
compelled several coastal municipalities, including Kotor, Budva, Tivat and Bar, to
dispose of their wastes in the Podgorica Sanitary landfill in the short-term. Finally, in
light of EIB commitment through its programme to finance another regional landfill for
the Kotor, Budva and Tivat area based on the established model, it is likely that
municipal waste generated on the coast will be disposed of in sanitary landfills in an
ecologically and commercially sustainable manner.

11.     Rationale for requesting additional financing: Government and the
Municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj jointly requested the additional loan to cover the
financing gap due to the failure to meet counterpart funding requirements as a result of
the severe fiscal squeeze brought about by the global financial crisis, as well as price
escalations caused by the devaluation of the Euro against the dollar and changes in
landfill design due to a change from the original landfill site envisaged at appraisal.
There is a balance of about US$5.1 million under the existing IDA Credit, which
Montenegro does not want to lose even though it became creditworthy for IBRD in 2007.
Government initially approached EIB in 2009 to co-finance the Mozura landfill with the
Bank. EIB however raised some concerns with the micro-location of the site, specifically
relating to its seismic stability and visibility from the road, and proposed a new micro-
location on a land parcel not owned by the Municipality and for which no preparatory
work had been undertaken. Government was unwilling to consider the new site given the
preparatory work concluded and the time that had already been lost on the project, and
requested the Bank's support for additional financing. The Bank team carried out further
technical and environmental due diligence by sending experts to review the concerns that
had been raised, and was able to confirm that the site was technically and



                                            4
environmentally feasible10 and solutions to address the said issues could be incorporated
in the design.

12.     Considering Project age, its relatively small size, and its implementation history,
Bank Management considered the option of closing the Project and cancelling the
remaining balance. It did, however, ultimately decide to consider Government's request,
in light of Montenegro's dire fiscal situation and constrained Bank lending framework;
the importance of curbing environmental degradation through, inter alia, establishing
sustainable sanitary landfills for Montenegro's vital tourism sector; and the overall
readiness for implementation demonstrated through the completed preparatory activities,
advanced procurement, and strong ownership of the Project at both the central and local
levels.

III.       PROPOSED CHANGES

13.     Proposed Additional Financing: The Additional Financing will finance the
design and construction of a regional sanitary landfill to serve the municipalities of Bar
and Ulcinj and the provision of equipment for the operation of the regional sanitary
landfill. Changes directly relating to the additional financing would entail a revised cost
and financing plan to reflect the additional 4.5 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
IBRD loan and Government contribution of 1.6 million including taxes and duties. The
financing instrument would be an IBRD Fixed Spread Loan repayable in ten years,
including a grace period of four years. The investments will be financed by Government
as a capital investment since they are new, and ownership will be transferred to the
Mozura D.o.o which is jointly owned by the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj after
completion of construction. Total estimated Project cost for remaining activities,
including the available balance under the IDA Credit, is about 9.9 million with taxes and
duties. A summary of estimated Project costs and financing arrangements is given in the
datasheet and Annex 2. Terms and conditions of the new IBRD loan will be reflected in
a new Loan Agreement. In addition, two new Subsidiary Agreements, one between the
Government and PEW and one between the Government and Mozura D.o.o (MJC2) will
be prepared to reflect the parties' implementation obligations ­ the PEW Subsidiary
Agreement and related legal opinion will be an effectiveness condition, whilst the MJC2
Subsidiary Agreement and related legal opinion will be an implementation covenant to be
met prior to commencement of construction. Also, a service agreement between Mozura
D.o.o MJC2 and the two municipalities under terms satisfactory to the Bank will be a
covenant to be met prior to commencement of construction.

14.    Restructuring existing Project: Restructuring of the existing Project would
comprise: (i) scale down of Component II by dropping remaining activities relating to
closing of two remaining uncontrolled and unsanitary waste disposal sites; (ii) revision of
the Results Framework and monitoring indicators to reflect the dropped activities in
Component II, and in particular a change in the relevant outcome/impact indicator target
from: `Four current municipal disposal sites properly closed' to `Two current municipal

10
     This issue is discussed in more detail in Section V: Environment, of this Project Paper.


                                                        5
disposal sites properly closed'; (iii) re-allocation of the funds saved from Component II
to Component I for construction of the Mozura landfill (please see Table 1 below for
details on the re-allocations); (iv) a change in the description of Component I to reflect
the fact that the regional landfill in Bar would be constructed at a new location and not on
a rehabilitated existing site; (v) a change in the percentage of expenditures eligible for
financing to allow for 100 percent financing for all categories in line with Montenegro's
current country financing parameters; (vi) amendment of Schedule 5 of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA)-Terms and Conditions for the Sub-credit and Project
Implementation Agreement to reflect the fact that repayment provisions for the sub-credit
only apply to the Multi-municipal joint solid waste company Lovanja (MJC1) and the
sub-credit and project implementation agreement related to MJC1; (vii) extension of the
Credit closing date from September 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012; (viii) alignment of
procurement procedures with the procurement procedures of the additional loan; and (ix)
removal of MJC2 of current audit provisions to align the Development Credit Agreement
with the additional loan.

Table 1. Summary of Proposed Re-allocation of Credit Proceeds
        Category of Expenditure                       Allocation           % of Financing
          Current              Revised           Current       Revised    Current   Revise
           Goods                 NA             2,560,000     1,300,000     80       100
           Works                 NA             1,420,000     2,680,000     83       100
     Consultant Services         NA              360,000       360,000      81       100
 Incremental Operating Costs     NA              160,000       160,000      80       100
        Unallocated              NA              500,000       500,000      80       100


IV.    ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN OR FINANCING GAP

15.      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not estimated during original Project
appraisal because most Project economic benefits would accrue from externalities such as
improved environmental conditions, reduced barriers to tourism development in Project
areas, and intangible aesthetic benefits due to reduced uncontrolled waste dumping.
Benefits of reduced environmental damage are only partially captured through consumer
fees for solid waste management. Nonetheless, it was confirmed that the Project had a
positive return, based on annual flows derived from financial revenues and costs in the
financial cash flow analysis, even without accounting for intangible benefits. A Financial
Rate of Return (FRR) and risk analysis was performed for the additional financing to
assess future financial viability of the MJC2. The FRR was estimated on the basis of the
stream of costs (investments and O&M costs) and benefits for a 20-year period. The
financial viability forecast was based on two key assumptions: (i) a full cost-recovery
tariff rate; and (ii) collection rates no lower than 90 percent. The financial benefits for the
Mozura sanitary landfill company are the collected revenues; Net Present Value (NPV)
was -3.1 million, and FRR equals 2.9 percent. The discount rate used is 10 percent. The
negative NPV was due to efforts to maintain affordable tariffs for consumers (less than
2% of average household income for Bar and 2% for Ulcinj). The financial projection
over the economic life of the investments however shows stable positive cash flow,
therefore investments are financially justified.


                                              6
16.      Tariff calculations were also carried out for two Scenarios: Scenario A: `without
project' (disposal of waste from coast in the Podgorica landfill) and Scenario B: `with
project' (Mozura Landfill constructed). The calculations considered two main criteria;
first, to ensure financial viability of the Company based on the utility cost recovery
approach and second, the impact of the MJC2 tariffs should be affordable for the
concerned families (less than 2 percent of household income). In 2010 the PSLC is
charging the coastal municipalities Euro 67.7/per ton of waste (without VAT), resulting
when the cost of transportation is added, in a cost of about Euro 80/ton. This cost
(without the transport cost) is anticipated to go up to 84 Euro/ton in 2021 if adjusted for
inflation of 3% annually, which is three times the estimated tariff of MJC2. Details on
the analysis are available in the project files.

Table 2: Estimated Tariffs for Mozura d.o.o

                     Scenarios                 2010    2012     2015      2018     2021
 Scenario A (Current disposal in Podgorica)     68      70       75        79       84
 Scenario B (Projection for Mozura landfill)   N/A      21       23        26       28


V.     APPRAISAL OF RESTRUCTURED PROJECT

17.     Technical: Additional financing would support design and construction of Phase
One of the regional sanitary Mozura Landfill and the provision of equipment for the
operation of the regional sanitary landfill. The selected landfill site is located at Mozura
in the Municipality of Bar, 17 km southeast of the city of Bar and 11 km northwest of the
city of Ulcinj. A conceptual design was prepared on the basis of a 2008 feasibility study
and it formed the basis for preparation of technical specifications for the `design and
build' contract through which a qualified contractor will be selected in accordance with
World Bank procurement guidelines to prepare detailed landfill designs and associated
infrastructure, including administrative buildings and access roads; and to construct and
install them. The landfill will be designed for a period of about 23 years without
recycling and 28 years with recycling. It will be constructed and operated in four phases.
Phase One will be designed to operate for a period of 10 years, without recycling. The
landfill structure for this phase will consist of six sub-cells with 6 m high embankments,
each with an impermeable base layer, stable containment walls, and a cover system of
intermediate temporary covers during operation, and an impermeable stable final cover
when a cell reaches capacity and is closed. Landfill design and construction
specifications will be governed by the Law on Waste Management and the EU Directive
99/31/EC, 06/12EC, 08/98EC to incorporate all pollution control measures to comply
with EU requirements for leachate collection and treatment, gas collection, drainage, and
other supporting infrastructure to ensure that the landfill is technically sound, cost-
effective, and environmentally sustainable. The Project will also finance equipment such
as compactors to operate the landfill. All goods, equipment, and works must meet
international standards, and Montenegrin authorities' certification prior to
commissioning.


                                               7
18.    Institutional: PEW will continue as Project implementing agency with
responsibility for project management as defined in the legal agreements, including
managing safeguard and fiduciary aspects, such as procurement and financial
management. While PEW11 no longer holds its original mandate for managing solid
wastes at the coast, the company has agreed with Government to continue its role as
implementing agency for the MESTAP until it closes.

19.     Management of Landfill Operations: The Municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj have
established the Mozura Joint Solid Waste Company (MJC2) D.o.o as a multi-municipal
joint company to assume ownership of assets and manage operations of the proposed
regional sanitary landfill. The municipalities own 100 percent of company shares (Bar 65
percent; Ulcinj, 35 percent) and its Board of Directors comprises solely representatives of
both municipalities. Mozura D.o.o/ MJC2 will not receive actual project funds; instead
ownership of the Mozura landfill assets constructed under the Project and related assets
will be transferred to the company by the Government as a grant upon completion of
construction (which is expected towards the end of the project implementation period),
under contractual terms to be agreed between the Bank and the Government, and will
then operate it. MJC2 will not have sub-loan repayment obligations. Mozura D.o.o. will
represent the municipalities during the design and construction phases. A Service
Agreement between Mozura D.o.o MJC2 and the two municipalities has been drafted and
the execution of the final agreement will be a loan covenant to be met prior to
commencement of construction. The Bank will provide a `no objection' to contract
signing for landfill construction only after these arrangements are in place. The municipal
waste management companies in each municipality will continue to carry out waste
collection and transport waste to the landfill.

20.     Procurement: The PEW procurement capacity was reassessed as part of pre-
appraisal and found adequate. Procurement activities under the parent Project were
reviewed periodically during Project supervision and found satisfactory. Overall
procurement risk for additional financing is rated Moderate in light of PEW procurement
experience. Procurement arrangements and procedures for additional financing will
remain the same as under the parent Project. Procurement under additional financing
would be carried out according to World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, and revised October 2006 and May 2010; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
May 2004, and revised October 2006 and May 2010, and provisions stipulated in the
Loan Agreement. The original Development Credit Agreement will also be amended to
align procurement procedures for the Credit going forward with the procurement
procedures of the additional loan. Procurement responsibilities for additional financing
will remain with the PEW.

21.    Procurement Plan: The Procurement Plan was updated to include activities to be
financed through additional financing. Additional activities will include four main

11
  PEW's jurisdiction has been scaled down to cover only water supply. However the company will be
maintained as the project implementing agency.


                                                  8
contracts: (i) Contract for design and construction of the Mozura landfill; (ii) Contract for
supervision of the construction of the Mozura landfill; (iii) Contract for landfill
equipment; and (iv) Contract for financial audit12 services for 2008, 2009, 2010, and
2011. The updated procurement plan is provided in Annex 3.

22.     Financial Management: Project financial management (FM) arrangements are
acceptable and arrangements instituted for implementing the original credit are assessed
as satisfactory. The unit in charge of implementation within the PEW is adequately
staffed and implementation capacity assessed as adequate. The FM responsibilities for
additional financing will therefore remain with PEW. Funds will be made available to
PEW by the Borrower under the PEW Subsidiary Agreement by giving PEW access to
the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of implementing the project, but the proceeds will
not be taken onto the books of PEW as a grant. Overall Project FM risk before mitigation
measures is assessed as Substantial, and with mitigation measures, as Moderate.
Assessed risk is based on country diagnostic work in FM, pertaining to country-and
project-level risks, including budgeting, accounting, reporting, internal controls, internal
audit, external audit, and flow of funds. Project FM arrangements described below
represent measures to mitigate identified risks.

23.     Audit: The 2007, 2008 and 2009 audit of financial statements for the ongoing
Project were submitted and the audit opinions were clean. Auditors identified no issues.
2008 Audit opinion on PEW entity financial statements was qualified for one item, an
uncertain long-term investment in Water Utility Herceg Novi (value: 205K). This audit
qualification was assessed as not imposing significant risk on the use of Project funds for
intended purposes. Auditors raised no issues in the management letter accompanying the
Project audit report, but raised several minor issues in the entity management letter,
which were discussed with the implementing entity.

24.     Financial reporting: Quarterly financial reports for the original credit were
submitted to the World Bank by due dates; they provide reliable financial information
and will continue to be provided. Compliance with the Credit covenants has been
substantial, relating mainly to ensuring sound financial management for the Project,
entity (PEW)13 and the Lovanja landfill company (MJC1) accounts. The Borrower will be
required to ensure that Project and Entity (PEW) Financial Statements are audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank on an annual basis to cover one fiscal year of the Borrower, and
that the said audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Bank not later than five (5) months after the end of such period.

25.     Environment: Activities to be supported under proposed additional financing
raise no issues to alter Project environmental Category B, nor trigger any new safeguard
policies. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Management

12
     Audits for 2007, 2008, and 2009 were completed.
13
  PEW's jurisdiction has been scaled down to cover only water supply. However, PEW will be maintained as the
Project implementing agency.


                                                        9
Plan (EMP) were prepared for the proposed Mozura landfill in accordance with the Law
on Environmental Impact Assessment (Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro
80/05) and World Bank guidelines for Environmental Assessment. The final EIA report
and EMP were publicly disclosed in Montenegro on May 4, 2010 and at the Bank's
InfoShop on May 5, 2010. Government confirmed that Environmental Assessment and
implementation of activities to be dropped from the project through restructuring,
specifically closing of two uncontrolled waste dumpsites that will now be financed by
EIB will also be conducted in accordance with EU and Montenegrin environmental
directives and legislation. Montenegrin environmental procedures are aligned with
relevant EU directives. The Bank team reviewed the EIB Financing Agreement and
confirmed with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment (MOSPE) and Procon,
the implementing agency in charge of managing the EIB Project on behalf of
Government, the arrangements for implementing these activities.

26.      Issues/Impacts and Mitigation measures: Landfill operation is expected to result
in significant overall positive impacts: improved environmental quality for human
habitation with associated benefits of improved prospects for public health, tourism, and
employment generation. However, some potentially negative impacts would need to be
addressed during construction and operation to maintain the area's environmental
integrity. In response to the concerns raised by EIB as a potential co-financier, on site
stability in relation to coastal area seismic risk, and site visibility, the Bank team carried
out a detailed assessment of these issues, including reviewing seismological risk and
associated potential intensities (up to grade IX on the Mercali scale), the specific
geological site conditions, and geotechnical assumptions and calculations of the landfill
design. It was concluded that regional seismic risk is significant but the proposed Mozura
site appears geologically homogeneous and stable, without tectonic or structural elements
or weaknesses that would aggravate a seismic event, and that the landfill design allows a
sufficient factor of safety (FS) to accommodate additional dynamic loads during a
seismic event. The assessment also concluded that landfill site visibility could be easily
resolved through site landscaping with shrubs and trees. Other potential negative impacts
of the landfill were identified as: noxious odors, water contamination, dust, noise, and
vibration, and risk of landfill gas explosion. Construction-related environmental impacts
are likely to be localized, temporary, and efficiently mitigated by applying good practices
for international landfill construction. Appropriate mitigation measures were identified
and included in the EMP. No cultural or historical monuments or any protected natural
resources are in the wider Mozura site vicinity.

27.     EMP Implementation: Arrangements for managing Project environmental aspects
will remain unchanged. Once the detailed landfill design is developed as part of the
design contract under the Project, the EMP will be updated with agreement of IBRD and
re-disclosed, prior to commencement of works. Whilst the Borrower bears overall
responsibility for ensuring EMP compliance and update, overall, ensuring
implementation and compliance with the EMP during construction, mitigating any
Project environmental impacts and updating the EMP during the detailed design phase -
after seeking the no objection to the suggested changes from the Bank- will be the
contractor's responsibility under contractual obligations during construction, and the


                                             10
implementing agency PEW will supervise mitigation measures with support from the
construction supervision consultant. Then, the landfill operating company (Mozura MJC
d.o.o) will assume responsibility for ensuring compliance with the EMP during the
operation phase.

28.     Social: Social impacts from activities to be carried out under additional financing
are expected to be positive and after the new landfill commences operations the Project is
expected to benefit residents of the municipalities served. A detailed social assessment
was carried out prior to appraisal of the original Project and most issues remain the same.
The principal concerns identified relate to quality-of-life issues for residents and tourists
due to poor solid waste management; these are being addressed by establishing the
modern landfills and closing existing unsanitary dumpsites. OP 4.12 is not triggered as
the Project anticipates no relocation of households or land acquisition due to landfill
construction; the Municipality of Bar provided14 the parcels of land for the proposed
landfill and access road, which were designated for this purpose in the Municipal urban
plan. Moreover, no loss of assets or access to assets, loss of income, or loss of access to
legally designated parks and areas is anticipated. During appraisal the Bank team's Social
Scientist visited the sites for the uncontrolled landfills at Kruce (Ulcinj) and Café (Bar) to
be dropped from the project and financed by EIB, as well as the Mozura site and
confirmed that there are no people living on the sites, no on-going economic activities
such as farming, and no people whose livelihood depends on the sites. None of the sites
is located close to legally designated parks nor hinders access to any such park. It was
thus confirmed that no social safeguards related issues are triggered.

VI.     EXPECTED OUTCOMES

29.    Project outcomes are unaffected by the changes proposed under additional
financing. However, the outcome indicator target on the number of unsanitary waste
disposal sites closed will drop from four to two. Since the two remaining sites will be
closed under the EIB loan executed in parallel, the outcomes are still expected to be
achieved outside of the Project.

VII.    BENEFITS AND RISKS

30.     At appraisal, overall Project risk was assessed as Moderate. Some risks identified
during appraisal remain and their mitigation measures are updated in this Project Paper.
Additional risks and adequate mitigation measures for them have been identified, but
overall risk remains Moderate. Table 3 summarizes activities and risks.

Exceptions to Bank policies

31.    OP 13.20 requires satisfactory implementation of a project as one of the
prerequisites for additional financing (paragraph 2(a) of OP 13.20). According to the staff
14
 The land in question is owned by the State of Montenegro, but the State has made it available for Bar
Municipality's use.


                                                   11
guidelines entitled Processing of Additional Financing: Guidance to Staff, dated
November 18, 2009 (Guidance), satisfactory project performance for the purposes of OP
13.20 requires, inter alia, that "ISR ratings over the most recent 12 months, including
those for implementation progress (IP) and development objective (DO) have been
consistently rated `Moderately Satisfactory' (MS) or better. The Project meets all the
criteria for eligibility for additional financing under OP/BP 13.20 as outlined in the
Guidance; except for the requirement that IP is satisfactory; IP is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory (MU) because of the overall implementation delays with respect to
construction of the Bar-Ulcinj landfill. While Government fulfilled an agreed Action
Plan to ensure that the activities to be financed are ready for implementation and the key
contracts are now ready for award, the IP rating has been maintained as MU because
award of the landfill `design and build' contract is partly dependent on adequate funding
being available. Processing additional financing would thus require the Executive
Directors to agree to issue a waiver to approve this policy exception. Before such waiver
the Managing Director needs to endorse the waiver prior to Board presentation. The
Managing Director endorsed the policy waiver on May 4, 2010, and the Executive
Director's approval is sought for this waiver.

VIII. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

32.    The proposed additional financing of 4.5 million would be provided on IBRD
terms as a Fixed Spread Loan repayable in ten years, including a four-year grace period.
Financing for the parent Project was provided by IDA on modified IDA terms, as a Credit
for SDR5.00 million (US$7.0 million equivalent) with a 20-year maturity and a 10-year
grace period.




                                           12
                                                               Table 3 ­ Summary of Project Risks
                                                                                                                                                                    Ratinga of
                 15                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                                                     residual
 Risk factors                        Description of risk                     Rating of                           Mitigation measures
                                                                               risk                                                                                    risk
I. Operation-specific Risks
Technical          The `Design and Build' contractor for the                  Moderate        The following measures have been taken to mitigate                    Moderate
Design             sanitary landfill does not prepare a good                                  this risk:
                   quality design or is unable to complete                                     Contractors were prequalified using sound
                   construction in time.                                                           technical and commercial criteria to aid selection
                                                                                                   of competent contractors.
                                                                                               Technical support was provided to strengthen
                                                                                                   conceptual design and technical specifications in
                                                                                                   bidding documents to minimize the possibility of
                                                                                                   sub-optimal designs.
                                                                                               A qualified consultancy firm will be hired to
                                                                                                   supervise contract design and construction quality
                                                                                                   and minimize construction delays.
Implementation         The Implementing Agency (PEW) has a                    Moderate        As mentioned above, a qualified consultancy firm will                   Low
Capacity and           good record and well-qualified staff, but too                          be hired to support the Implementing Agency in
Sustainability         few competent technical staff; those                                   contract management and supervision to ensure high-
                       available are supervising several other                                quality design and timely completion of activities.
                       activities and projects, which increases the
                       risk inadequate Borrower capacity to
                       supervise the contractor during landfill
                       design and construction.
Counterpart            Government has difficulty raising required             Moderate        Overall Government contribution to additional                           Low
funding                counterpart funds, especially in the event of                          financing is relatively low and mainly covers taxes and
                       cost overruns.                                                         duties; in light of the additional implementation
                                                                                              period, spreading this amount over the 2011 and 2012
                                                                                              budgets reduces risk of failure to pay. Moreover, while

  15
       These represent an updated risk assessment of those identified at appraisal of the original project and at the concept stage for the additional financing.




                                                                                      13
                                                                        economic growth has remained slow in 2010,
                                                                        Government projections indicate the economy is
                                                                        expected to gradually recover in 2011.
Procurement   Risk of further delays related to completing   Moderate   To mitigate this risk, the Bank has provided technical        Low
              procurement for the main investment                       support to ensure that the bidding documents are sound
              contract, i.e., the Design and Construction               and completed in time to allow bidding to commence
              contract for the landfill.                                as early as possible, thereby increasing the potential
                                                                        for high-quality bids. Bids were evaluated in
                                                                        September and October 2010 and the contracts are
                                                                        ready for award.
Financial     Financial sustainability of the landfill       Moderate   These risks have been mitigated through the following       Moderate
viability     operations is not attained due to either of               measures:
              the following:                                             Prior to signing `design and build' contract,
                  a) municipal waste collectors do not                      municipalities will sign a Service-level Agreement
                       dispose projected volume of                          with the Mozura D.o.o, obliging them to meet
                       municipal solid waste in landfill;                   specified conditions based on `put or pay'
                  b) municipal solid waste collection                       principle.
                       companies pay less than 100% of                   During the analysis, a more conservative forecast
                       invoices to Mozura D.o.o;                            was used for the volume of municipal solid waste
                  c) consumers unwilling or unable to                       to be disposed in the Mozura sanitary landfill, i.e.
                       pay for solid waste services and                     10% less; and lower-than-projected payment rates
                       increased costs due to landfill                      from municipal companies, i.e. 90% was used.
                       operations; or                                    Financial analysis was based on a tariff considered
                  d) Tariffs insufficient to cover O&M                      affordable, i.e. less than 1-2% of household
                       landfill costs.                                      income.
                                                                         Municipalities will carry out public information
                                                                            initiatives to educate people about the benefits of
                                                                            improved solid waste management and the need to
                                                                            increase tariffs.
                                                                         The Service Level Agreement will include
                                                                            provisions requiring municipalities to adjust tariffs
                                                                            as needed.




                                                                  14
Environmental   All landfill projects carry inherent political   Moderate   Hold community engagement/public information and              Low
                risk linked to resistance by individuals or                 consultations.
                groups to the siting of waste facilities. In
                this case, key stakeholders finally agreed on
                the site and the public was invited to
                comment; no public comments were
                received resisting landfill construction.
Other           Bank may encounter reputational risk             Moderate   The Bank carried out technical due diligence during           Low
                because of EIB withdraw from co-financing                   pre-appraisal for a comprehensive investigation of
                the landfill, citing questions about seismic                these issues. Two technical experts confirmed that the
                stability, and site visibility.                             site was seismically stable, and that adequate
                                                                            mitigation measures would remedy landfill visibility.
                                                                            EIA and technical specifications were strengthened
                                                                            accordingly. The Bank and EIB have had subsequent
                                                                            discussions on findings and EIB expressed interest in
                                                                            continued collaboration with the Bank in the sector.
                The Municipality of Bar does not renew the       Moderate   The landfill location (Mozura) has been included in the       Low
                license for operation of the landfill.                      Municipality's detailed urban plan, and a provision
                                                                            will be included in the subsidiary agreement between
                                                                            Government and MJC2to ensure that the license is in
                                                                            place for the landfill to be operated on a sustainable
                                                                            basis. The Service level agreement between the
                                                                            Municipality and the landfill operator will also include
                                                                            a provision to ensure that the landfill is operated for a
                                                                            period of up to its design life, with the license being
                                                                            valid for an initial period of ten years.
Overall Risk                                                     Moderate                                                               Moderate




                                                                      15
                                                      ANNEX 1: REVISED RESULTS FRAMEWORK16

Hierarchy of Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators                Data Collection Strategy              Critical Assumptions

Sector Related CAS Goal                   Sector Indicators:                        Sector/ country reports:              From Goal to Bank Mission)
The Transition Support Strategy for        Environmental quality                     Environmental reports and             Environmental degradation if
Montenegro (in lieu of a CAS)              Adequate collection and disposal             Environmental Impact                 coastal area adversely affects
identifies the following priorities:          of solid wastes                           Assessment which provides            prospects for tourism growth.
(i)stimulating near-term growth and        Effective institutional setup for            baseline data to measure impact    Support to Government to
creating the basis for sustainability;        the solid waste sector                 Project reports                         develop the sector's institutional
(ii)Improve social well-being and                                                                                            framework will provide a basis
(iii)improve governance and build                                                                                            for further sector development
effective institutions
Project Development                       Outcome / Impact                          Project reports:                      from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                Indicators:                                Regular progress reports              Political and economic stability.
 Improve solid waste collection            90% of solid waste produced in            Supervision Mission reports           Project implementation does not
      and disposal in the coastal area        the coastal area is collected on a     Implementation Completion                reduce incentives to Government
 Correct environmental                        set schedule and disposed in              Report                                and municipalities to continue
      degradation caused by current           proper facilities                      Follow-up social assessment              sector reform once immediate
      unsanitary municipal disposal        Two current municipal disposal                                                     needs are satisfied.
      sites                                   sites properly closed
 Develop institutional framework           Creation of two multi-municipal
      for solid waste management              joint companies that are
      sector                                  operational and financially
                                              sustainable according to the
                                              service quality and financial
                                              sustainability indicators
                                           Continued public acceptance of
                                              the proposed solid waste
                                              management solution, indicated
                                              by more than 70% approval
                                              rating of the Project as measured
                                              by the follow-up social


16
     This Results Framework presents the combined indicators for both the IDA Credit and the proposed loan, updated from Annex 1 of the original PAD.




                                                                                   16
                                         assessment.
Output from each Component:           Output Indicators:                        Project reports:                      (from Outputs to Objective)
Environmental Infrastructure:
Improved Solid Waste Collection and   Indicators of service quality:            Quarterly management status reports   Cost recovery mechanisms provide
Disposal                                                                        and independent audits                adequate financing for operation and
                                          Coverage municipal collection                                               maintenance
                                          network [90% of municipal urban
                                          areas with less than 100 m to a
                                          container or collection route]
                                          Frequency in the collection
                                          [every two days in the summer
                                          season and twice weekly during
                                          the rest of the year]
                                          Frequency in the cleaning of
                                          containers [monthly in winter and
                                          bi-monthly in summer]
                                          Density of compacted waste in
                                          the landfill [800 kgim31
                                          Period between compacting and
Environmental Rehabilitation:             coverage of wastes at the landfill
Existing unsanitary municipal             [four hours]
disposal sites properly closed and
rehabilitated                             Percentage of wastes separated at
                                          the source [25% in Bar's MJC
Pilot recycling campaign                  area and 10% in Kotor's MJC
                                          area]
                                          Percentage of wastes recycled
                                          [15% in Bar's MJC area and 5%
                                          in Kotor's MJC area]                  Final consultant's report
Technical Assistance:
                                           Proper execution and supervision
Engineering designs                        of planned facilities
                                       Existence of a reform proposal
Sector reform                              and regulatory framework
                                      Indicators of financial sustainability
                                      of the MJCs:



                                                                               17
                                    Collection ratio [90%]
                                    Working ratio [0.65]
                                    Current ratio [2.0]
                                    Operating ratio [0.95]

Project Components /            Inputs: (budget from the AF )    Project Reports    (From Components to outputs)
Sub-components:
Environmental Infrastructure:   4.5 million (from AF but 9.6     Biannual reports
Regional landfills              million overall)
Collection equipment




                                                                18
           ANNEX 2 ­ ESTIMATED COSTS FOR PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING17



                                                                       Total Cost
 Environmental Infrastructure Component                                million
 Regional sanitary landfill for Bar and Ulcinj municipalities              6.95
 Equipment (compactors and bulldozer)                                      0.40
 Supervision costs                                                         0.29
 Taxes and duties                                                          1.29
 Total Baseline cost                                                        8.93
 Physical Contingencies (5.0%)                                             0.45
 Price Contingencies             (2.5%)                                    0.22
 Sub-total for Environmental Infrastructure Component                      9.60
 Technical Assistance Component                                            0.30
 Total Cost                                                                9.90




17
     This total cost includes the balance under the existing Credit.


                                                        19
ANNEX 3 ­ PROCUREMENT PLAN




            20
                                                                                       Montenegro MESTAP - Procurement of Goods
                                                                                                   October 15th 2010

                                                                                                                  TECHNICAL                                                   BID EVALUATION
                                                                                                                                   BIDDING DOCUMENTS
                                                                                                                SPECIFICATIONS                                                    REPORT

                                                                                                                                                         TENDER     BID                             CONTRACT
                                                     PROCUREMEN         PREIPOST      PRlORlPOST   PLANVS.   SUBMITTED APPROVED    PREPARE    APPROVED                       REQUEST    APPROVA              COMPLETION
          DESCRIPTION              CONTRACTOR                                                                                                          INVITATION OPENING                            SIGNING
                                                      TMETHOD         QUALIFICATION     REVIEW     ACTUAL       DATE     DATE        DATE       DATE                          DATE       LDATE                  DATE
                                                                                                                                                          DATE     DATE                                DATE


                                                                                                    Plan      Apr-04     Apr-04    May-04      Jun"{)4   Jun-04    Aug-04    Aug-04      Aug"{)4     Sep-04     Oct"{)4
Containers of 1.1 m', 5 m' and 7    "Urns" Bosnia
                                                          ICB             POST          PRIOR
m' for Kotor, Budva and Tivat.     and Herzegovina
                                                                                                   Actual     14/4/04    26/4/04    4/5/04     17/6/04   21/6/04   2/8/04     13/8/04    1/9/04      14/9/04    25/2/05




                                                                                                    Plan      Apr-04     Apr-04    May-04      Jun-04    Jun-04    Aug-04    Aug-04      Aug-04      Sep-04     Nov-04
Collection compacting trucks,
tow trucks, vacuum cleaners and     "Bora Kecic"
                                                          ICB             POST          PRIOR
container cleaning truck for          Serbia
Kotor, Budva and TivaL
                                                                                                   Actual     14/4/04    26/4/04    4/5/04     17/6/04   21/6/04   2/8/04     19/1/05    21/1/05     31/3/05    8/9/05




                                                                                                    Plall     Mar-II     Mar-II    Mar-II      Mar-II    Apr-II    Jun-II     Jul-ll     Jul-ll       Jul-ll    Dec-II
Landfdl equipmeat for Bar and
                                                          ICB             POST          PRJOR
Vlcinj (compactor, bulldozer)
                                                                                                   Aetnal


                                                                                                    Plall     Feb-05     Feb-05     Feb-05     Feb-05    Feb-05    Apr"{)5   May"{)5     Jun..{)5    Jun..{)5   Oct"{)5
Recyclillg Equipment for            "Bozovic"
                                                          ICB             POST          PRIOR
Lovanja..                           Montenegro
                                                                                                   Aetnal     26/1\104   6/2/05    26/11104    6/2/05    2814/05   13/6/05    7/6/05     12n105      26n105     6/11/06

                                       "Integral                                                    Plall       nia        nia       nia        nia       nia       nia        nia         nia       Aug..{)3   JuI-04
Remainillg works on the lalldfdl     Inzenjering"         ICB
                                                                          Post         PRJOR
for Kotor, Tivat and Budva            Reference      Design & Build
                                    Project MEIP                                                   Actual       nia        nia       nia        nia       nia       nia        nia         nia       Aug"{)3    JuI"{)4


                                        Remaining allocated funds                                                                                                                 Completed Total


"Remaining works on the landfill for Kotor, Tivat and Budva" was originally financed by the Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project under a "design and build" contract, but due to lack of funds, the remaining
balance was absorbed by MESTAP.
The proportion of disbursements against the invoices submitted for the MESTAP project are 86.42% for works, 10.49% for goods, and 3.09% for consultant services.
                                                                                                                              Montenegro MESTAP - Procurement of Works
                                                                                                                                          October 15th 2010

                                                                                                                                                 SPECS AND QUANTITY                   BIDDING DOCUMENTS              PREQUALIFICATION                                 BID EVALUATION REPORT


                                                                                        LUMPSUM ... PRE/POST        PRIORI                                                                                                                  TENDER                                            CONTRACT    DEUVERY
                 DESCRIPTION                        CONTRACTOR
                                                                       PROCUREME
                                                                                          BD.LOF    QUALIFIC         POST
                                                                                                                                 PLANvs.      SUBMI1TED         APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                 PREPARE DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     APPROVED        INVITATI OPENING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INVITATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BID OPENING   REQUEST     APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIGNING     LATEST
                                                                       NTMEmOD                                                    ACTUAL        DATE              DATE                                 DATE          ON DATE   DATE                         DATE       DATE         DATE
                                                                                         QUANTITY    ATION          REVIEW                                                                                                                   DATE                                                DATE       DATE




                                                                                                                                    ....n        Apr-IO            Apr-I 0            Apr-IO            Apr·IO        Feb-09    Mar-09      May-IO         Jul-IO      Aug-IO      Aug-IO       J8I1-11    Mar-I 2
CoDStructioa of the landfill for Bar and
Uldnj ladudiua: scale, accea pathway,                                  ICBDesigD&
.........d condilioninc. proYioion 4 inttalalion                         Build wilb
                                                                                        LUMP SUM        Post         PRIOR
of pol,.,..ykn aeom............ lea.... ",                             prequalifiadio
collection and treatment. and urbanization                                   n
and buildinp.
                                                                                                                                   Actual        114/10           29/4/10             114/10           29/4/10        1712109   30/3/09     29/4/10        5ntIO        418/10     1118/10




                                                                                                                                    Plan         May-05            May-05             May-05           May-05           nI.       nI.       JW1-05         Jul-05       Jul-05     Jul-05      Aug-05      oct 05
CODstruc:tion works on the Sanitary landfill         "Cipranic"                           Bill of
                                                                           NCB                          Post         PRIOR
"Lovlnja" - Second phase.                            Montenegro                          Quantity
                                                                                                                                   Actual        2715/05           2/6/05             2715/05           216/05          niB       niB       8/6/05        1817105       118/05     518/05      12/8/05     7111/05


                                                                                                                                    Plan         Sep-06            Oct-06             Sep-06            Oct-06          nla       nla       Oct-06        Nov-06       Nov-06      Nov-06      Oec-06      Feb-07
Construction works on the Sanitary landfill           "Stango"                            Bill of
                                                                           NCB                          Post         PRIOR
"Lovanj." -Third phase                               Mont<oegro                          Quantity
                                                                                                                                   Actual         119/06          5/10106             119/06           5/10/06          nla       nla       7/10/06       17111/06     21/11/06    7112106     15/12106     1/2/07



Improvement of waste mlna&eGlel1t                                                                                                   Plan         Sep-05            Sep-05             Sep-05           Sep-05           nla       niB       Sep-05        Sep-05        Sep-05     Sep-05      Sep-05      Dec-05
                                                       "Stango"                           Bill of
(uilities- Adaptation of offices of the Public                              SW                          Post          POST
                                                     Montenegro                          Quantity
Utility Kotor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1219105       2319/05      2519/05     2719/05     2719/05
                                                                                                                                   Actual      Post review      Post review         Post review      Post review        nla      nla                                                                       13/12105


                                                       "Integral                                                                    .... n         niB               nI.                nI.               nla           nla      nla          nI.           nt.          nla         nla       Aug-03       Jul-04
                                                                           ICB
Remainiol works on the landfill ror Kotor,           lnzenjering"                         Bill of
                                                                         Design &                       Post         PRIOR
TInt and Bud. . (Ref......... Project MEIP)        Reference Project                     Quantity
                                                                           Build
                                                         MEIP                                                                      Actual          nI.               nla                nla               nla           nI.      nla          nt.           nt.          nla         nI.       Aug-03       Jul-04




NOTE: The dates for Ibe tender procedure for construction of the sanitary landfill for Bar & Ulcinj imply the design-build procedure wilb prequalification and theyar. based on the approved feasibility study and EIA study.



"Remaining works on the landfill for KolOr. Tivat and Budva" was originally financed by the Mont<oegro Envimnmentallnfrastructure Project under · "design and build" contrac~ but due to lack of funds, lb. remaining balance was absorbed by MEST AP
The proportion of disbunemenlS against the invoices submitted for the MESTAP project are 86 42% for works, 10.49% for goods. and 3.09% for consultant services.
                                                                                                                                          Montenegro MESTAP - Selection of Consultants
                                                                                                                                                      October 15th 2010

                                                                                                                                     SHORTLIST              REQUEST FOR                                               BID EVALUATION TECHNICAL (T) AND FINANCIAL
                                                                                                      TERMS OF REFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                PRm   "':J
                                                                             PRIORi                                                                                                        BID
                                                        PROCUREMENT                      PLA,Nvs.     SUBMI1TED       APPROVED          SUBMITI        PREPARE         APPROVED                      SID OPENING       REQUEST         APPROVAL       REQUEST        APPROVAL        CONTRACT       DEUVERY
          DESCRIPTION               CONTRACTOR                                POST                                                                                                     INVITATION
                                                           ME11IOD                       ACTUAL          DATE           DATI           APPROVE            DATE           DATE                            DATE          DATE (1')        DATI(T)       DATI(F)         DATE (F)      SIGNING DATE   LATEST DATE
                                                                            REVIEW                                                                                                        DATE


PrclimiDary daign for tbe                                                                  PI··         Apr-<l6         Apr-<l6                          Apr-<l6             Apr-<l6     May-06         May·()6         May-06           May-06        May-<l6         May-<l6         Jun-<l6        JuI-<l6
                                    Inet Consultant
sanitary I..drill OR location
                                   Benito Fernandez            IC             POST                                                       515/06
Knlf: i. Iitt Municipality of
                                         Spain
Ukinj.                                                                                    Act··1        25/4/06         26/4/06                          25/4/06             26/4106     8/~/06          16/5/06        22/5/06          2215/06       2215/06         22/5/06         5/6/06         517/06




                                                                                           PI..         Apr-<l5         Apr-<l5                          Apr-<l5             Apr-<l5     May-<l5         JuI-<l5        Aug-<l5          Aug-<l5       Aug-<l5         Aug-<l5         Scp-<l5       Nov-OS
Prtpantioa of Feasibility Study
for ~ 01111< Loa&-Tmn
                                    -Scott Wilson  M

Sotid Walk Sanitary Laadfill                                 QCBS            PRIOR                                                      16/5/06
                                    United Kinadom
Lotatioa for Kotor. BudT. aad
Tint and for aar aad Ukillj.
                                                                                          Actual         g/4/o5         15/4/05                          814/05              1514/05    2515/05         2611!/O5        28n105           10/8/05       26/8/05         2519/05         2919105       3011/06




                                                                                           PI..         Nov-OS          Nov-OS                          Nov-05               Nov-O'      llc<;-<l5       Jan-<l6        Jan-06           Jan-06        Jan-06           Jan-06         Jan-06        may 06
Audill of PE "Craogonko
primorje, "Lova.j.otltd aad        ·Ernst.t Young·
                                                              LCS            PRIOR                                                      3111/05
proj<ct MESTAP for 28414 ..d           Serbia
280S.
                                                                                          Actual        3/11/05         7111/05                         311 1105         711 1/05       1111 1/05       8112105         16112105        19112105      28112105         1211106         1412106       3115106



                                                                                           PIo.         Nov-05          Nov..()5                        Nov-05           Nov-05          llc<;-<l5       J..-<l6        J..-<l6          J..-<l6       J..-<l6         Jan-06          Jan-07        may 07
Aodi.. 01 PE "C...........         ·Ernst.t Young·
prilDl)t"je, "Lovaaj."ltd and                                 LCS            PRIOR                                                      311 1/05
                                       Serbia
proj<ct MESTAP for 2006.
                                                                                          Actual        311 I/O'        711 1/05                        3111/05          7111105        1111 1/05       8112/05        16112105         19112105      28112/05         1211/06         4/4/07        3115107



                                                                                           PI..         Nov..o5         Nov"()5                         Nov-05           Nov..()5        llc<;-<l5      110-06          Jan-06           J..-<l6       Jan-06          Jan-06          Jan-08        may OS
AudI.. oIPE ..C ........""         ·Ernst.t Young·
prirllOl"jc. "Lonaja" ltd aad                                 LCS            PRIOR                                                      3111105
                                       Serbi.
proj<ct MESTAP for 2107.
                                                                                          Actual        3111/05         7111/05                         3111105          711 1/05       1111 1/05       8112105        16112105         19iI2105      28112105         1211106         814108        3115108



                                                                                           PIao         IJec.08         Dcc-<l8                          Jan-<l9             feb.09      feb.09         Mar-<l9         Mar-<l9          Mar-<l9       Mar-<l9         Mor-<l9         Apr-<l9       May-12
Aodit s.m... for 111< fIoatl       ·Ernst.ty.....·
                                                            QCBS             PRIOR                                                      Dcc-<l8
ya.n~.lOI9,1810.2811                   Serbi.
                                                                                          Actul        16112108        16112108                         2211109              6/2109      912109         913109          1913109         2413109       2713109           1/4109



Prdimioary daip for 111<                                                                   PIo.         May-<l9         May-<l9                         Moy-<l9          May-<l9        May-<l9         May-<l9         May-<l9          J...-<l9     May-<l9          june 09         Jun-<l9       Aug-IO
                                    lad CcosuIIIOt
sallitary l.-elfiO oalocatioa
                                      AlcksancW               IC            PRIOR                                                       May-<l9
Mobra ia tilt Ma.lcipality ~
                                  MIodcoovic SCrbi.
Bor                                                                                       Actual       ·1515109        2015109                          U"109            20/5109        20/5109         2515109         116/09           216109        116/09          216109          9/6109        18/8/10



                                                                                           PIao         Jul-IO          Jul-IO                           Jul-IO              Jul-IO      Jul-IO         Scp-IO          Oct-IO           Oct-IO        Oct-IO          Oct-IO          Jao-lI        Mar-I2
SoopcrvilIoo ......,.. for
~~dIe .. llitary                                            QCBS            PRIOR                                                       29nll0
IaodlUI for Bor .... UIclaj
                                                                                          _I           27n110           4/8110                          27n1l0               418110     16/8110         2719110         7110110         12110110



1IaiI."""'" _ogicalin
        dtvutated areas
ftCO'\'U)' ~
                for               ·Koc:ks· Germany
                                                                                           PIo.         Oct-<l5         Oct-<l5                         Oct-<l5          Oct-<l5        Nov.().5        llc<;-<l5       llc<;-<l5        llc<;-<l5     Dcc-<l5         Dec-<l~         1.10-06       Feb-<l6
                                   ·IK Coos. Eng. ·          CQS           'PRIOR                                                      I7I1I/05
muBidpali1ia fA Kotor aDd
                                        Sabia                                                                                                                                                                                             post
Tint.                                                                                    Aclual        21/10/05        25110/05                        21/10105         15/10/05        24111105       1511210'       post ,""ow                     poslrevlCW      post review       1811106       19/2106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         «view

                                       .1ntqJroI                                           PI..           nI.            nI.                                                  nI.          nI.            nI.             nI.                           nI.              nI.                           nI.
                                                                                                                                                          nla                                                                              nI.                                           nI.
Rcma1ailll works 011 tbt Iaodfill  Iuenjcriog·              ICB
                                                                            PRIOR                                                         nI.
for Kotor. Tint aDd Budn          RderaIa: Proj«l       Design.t Build
                                      MEIP                                               Actual           01.            01.                              01.                 01.          01.            01.             01.              01.          01.              01.            0/0            0/0


                                             Remaiaiac allocated fancb                                                                                                                                                                                            Compl<t<d Total



-R.cmainina works OIl the landfill for Kot«. TiVit IUd BOOw~ was arisinally financed by the Momcnegro Environmentallnfiubucture Project under. -design and build- contract. but due to lack offunds, the remaining balance was absorbed b~' MESTAP
The proportion of disbursements against the invoices submiucd for me MESTAP project lie 8642% for wcdcs, 10.49% for goods. and 3.09% f«consuItIDt services
