                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0670



       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-38230, IBRD-80020)



                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 5.0 MILLION (USD 7.7 MILLION
                        EQUIVALENT)

                               AND A LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 4.5 MILLION (USD 5.9 MILLION
                        EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO

                              MONTENEGRO

                                 FOR THE

  MONTENEGRO ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE TOURIST AREAS
                      PROJECT




                              January 31, 2013



Urban, Water Supply and Sanitation Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2012)
                      Currency Unit = Euro (EUR)
                         EUR 1.00 = USD 1.30
                         XDR 1.00 = USD 1.54


                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EAR      European Agency for Reconstruction
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB      European Investment Bank
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GoM      Government of Montenegro
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEIP     Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project
MESTAP   Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project
MJC      Multi-municipality Joint Company
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PEW      Public Enterprise Regional Waterworks ‘Crnogorsko primorje’
PDO      Project Development Objective
SaM      Serbia and Montenegro
TSS      Transition Support Strategy
USD      United States Dollar
XDR      Special Drawing Rights


                       Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou, ECAVP
                     Country Director: Ellen Goldstein, ECCU4
                      Sector Manager: Sumila Gulyani, ECSUW
                 Project Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo, AFTU1
                    ICR Team Leader: Marcus Lee, UDRUR
                                MONTENEGRO
             Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project



                                                  CONTENTS




A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring (if any)
I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Environmentally
Country:                 Montenegro                 Project Name:             Sensitive Tourist Areas
                                                                              Project (Montenegro)
                                                                              IDA-38230
Project ID:              P079116                    L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                              IBRD-80020
ICR Date:                12/06/2012                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIM                        Borrower:                 MONTENEGRO 1
Original Total
                         USD 7.00M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 12.96M 2
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 12.50M 3
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Regional Water Company (Crnogorsko Primorje) – (PEW)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process               Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         03/19/2003       Effectiveness:                               04/08/2004
Appraisal:              06/25/2003       Restructuring(s):                            08/11/2010
Approval:               09/11/2003       Mid-term Review:        04/30/2006           03/10/2006
                                         Closing:                03/31/2008           06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Satisfactory



1
  At the time of project approval in 2003, the Borrower was part of the former Serbia and Montenegro.
2
  This amount exceeds the revised total commitment, due to exchange rate fluctuations between USD, XDR
and EUR, over the years of project implementation.
3
  This amount includes the IBRD loan approved as additional financing in 2010.
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                            Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                     5
Solid waste management                                                95                  90
Sub-national government administration                                                       5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               25                  20
Municipal governance and institution building                                             20
Other urban development                                               25                  10
Pollution management and environmental health                         50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:           Ellen Goldstein                     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:             Sumila Gulyani                      Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:        Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo        Manuel G. Marino
ICR Team Leader:            Marcus John Jin Sarn Lee
ICR Primary Author:         Marcus John Jin Sarn Lee
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the Project is to create ecological and commercially sustainable
solid waste collection and disposal services in Montenegro coastal municipalities, needed
to maintain a clean, environmentally attractive coastal area. This will be achieved
through: (i) developing the sector's institutional, policy and regulatory framework; (ii)
rehabilitating two current municipal disposal sites, that operate without sanitary
conditions, to function as properly designed regional sanitary landfills; (iii) closing
current disposal sites in an environmentally acceptable manner; (iv) provision of modern
collection equipment; (v) initiating a pilot recycling campaign; and (vi) strengthening
multi-municipal joint companies (MJC) that will be created to operate the two regional
solid waste disposal systems.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No changes were made to the project development objectives.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target         Completion or
                                                documents)        Values          Target Years
                Percentage of solid waste produced in the coastal area that is collected on a set
Indicator 1 :
                schedule and disposed of in proper facilities
Value                                                                          More than 90% for
quantitative or 0%                          90%                                collection and
Qualitative)                                                                   disposal
Date achieved 05/12/2004                    03/31/2008                         12/31/2012
                Target mostly achieved: Almost all solid waste in the five coastal municipalities
Comments
                is now collected. Bar, Ulcinj and Budva began disposing into the Mozura
(incl. %
                sanitary landfill in mid-2012. Kotor and Tivat also began disposing into Mozura
achievement)
                from November 2012.
Indicator 2 : Number of municipal disposal sites properly closed
Value
quantitative or 0                           4                 2                2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/12/2004                    03/31/2008        08/11/2010       06/30/2006
                Target fully achieved: The uncontrolled dumpsites at Grabovac (Tivat) and
Comments
                Lovanja (Kotor) were properly closed as part of the project. In addition, the
(incl. %
                Novoselje (Budva) and Cafe (Bar) dumpsites were also closed, but were not
achievement)
                financed by the project.
                Number of Multi-Municipal Joint Solid Waste Companies (MJC) that are
Indicator 3 : operational and financially sustainable according to the service quality and
                financial sustainability indicators
Value                                                                          2 (but full operating
quantitative or 0                           2                                  indicators not yet
Qualitative)                                                                   available)
Date achieved 05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                           09/15/2012
                Target partly achieved: MJC1 operated the Lovanja landfill satisfactorily during
Comments
                2004-7; it now operates only a recycling facility at the site. MJC2 Mozura
(incl. %
                commenced operations in July 2012; sufficient data on the financial indicators
achievement)
                not yet available.
                Continued public acceptance of the proposed solid waste management solution,
Indicator 4 : indicated by the approval rating of the Project as measured by the follow-up
                social assessment
Value
quantitative or 50%                        70%                                  More than 70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/12/2004                   03/31/2008
Comments
                Target fully achieved: Follow-up social assessment found that more than 70% of
(incl. %
                surveyed respondents approved of the project.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                      Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
                  Coverage of municipal collection system (percentage of municipal areas with
Indicator 1 :
                  less than 100m to a container or container route)
Value
(quantitative     60%                      90%                              More than 90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   05/12/2004                 03/31/2008                        09/15/2012
Comments        Target fully achieved: Coverage in Bar, Budva, Kotor and Tivat is almost 100%,
(incl. %        while Ulcinj is at about 70%. Simple average across all 5 municipalities is
achievement)    therefore at least 90%.
Indicator 2 :   Frequency of collection
                                                                             Varies, with some
                                                                             such as Budva,
                                           Every two days in
Value                                                                        Tivat and Kotor
                                           summer and twice
(quantitative   Once every three days                                        having daily
                                           weekly during the
or Qualitative)                                                              collection, but
                                           rest of the year
                                                                             average once in 3
                                                                             days in Ulcinj
Date achieved 05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                        09/15/2012
Comments
                Target achieved: Municipalities do gear up collection services during peak
(incl. %
                summer periods, with round-the-clock operations in some cases when needed.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Density of the compacted waste in the landfill (kg/m3)
Value
                                                                             Between 800 and
(quantitative   n/a                        800
                                                                             900
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                        12/31/2012
Comments          Target achieved: Density at the Mozura landfill in Dec 2012 was between 800
(incl. %          and 900 kg/m3. Also, density at the Lovanja landfill operated during 2004-2007
achievement)      was generally above 800 kg/m3.
Indicator 4 :     Period between compacting and coverage of waste at the landfill (hours)
Value
(quantitative     n/a                       4                                  6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                         09/15/2012
Comments          Target partly achieved: This figure for the Mozura landfill is the current average
(incl. %          time during the autumn/winter; period is expected to be shortened to 4 hours
achievement)      during summer.
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of waste separated at the source
                                               25% in Bar MJC
Value                                                                             Less than 10% in
                  0% in Bar MJC area;          area;
(quantitative                                                                     Bar MJC area; 15%
                  0% in Kotor MJC area         10% in Kotor MJC
or Qualitative)                                                                   in Kotor MJC area
                                               area
Date achieved     05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                         09/15/2012
                  Target partly achieved: Bins for separated waste are common in the Kotor MJC
Comments
                  area, with significant public participation; collected waste undergoes secondary
(incl. %
                  separation at the Lovanja facility. Source separation is relatively limited in the
achievement)
                  Bar MJC area.
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of waste recycled
                                               15% in Bar MJC
Value                                                                             5% in Bar MJC
                  0% in Bar MJC area;          area;
(quantitative                                                                     area; 12% in Kotor
                  0% in Kotor MJC area         5% in Kotor MJC
or Qualitative)                                                                   MJC area
                                               area
Date achieved     05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                         09/15/2012
Comments          Target mostly achieved: The recycling facility located at the Lovanja site
(incl. %          continues to function and serves the Kotor MJC area. The Bar MJC currently has
achievement)      no recycling facility at the Mozura site.
Indicator 7 :     Reform proposal and regulatory proposal elaborated
                                                                                  Reforms to
Value
                                                                                  institutional and
(quantitative     n/a                          Draft prepared
                                                                                  policy framework
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  underway.
Date achieved     05/12/2004                   03/31/2008                         09/15/2012
                  Target achieved: An institutional framework for solid waste management in
Comments
                  participating municipalities was implemented, including multi-municipality joint
(incl. %
                  companies for waste disposal, and municipally-owned companies for waste
achievement)
                  collection.
                  Indicators of financial sustainability of MJCs: collection ratio, working ratio,
Indicator 8 :
                  current ratio, operating ratio
                                               collection ratio =
                  Collection Ratio: 52%;
                                               90%
Value             Working Ratio: 1.11;
                                               working ratio =                    Not yet available
(quantitative     Operating Ratio: 1.37
                                               0.65                               for Mozura MJC.
or Qualitative)   (June-Dec. 2004)--
                                               current ratio = 2.0
                  unaudited data.
                                               operating ratio =
                                           0.95
Date achieved 12/31/2004                   03/31/2008                          09/15/2012
              The Mozura landfill commenced operations in mid-July 2012, therefore
Comments
              sufficient data is not yet available on these ratios for the Bar MJC. These ratios
(incl. %
              are not applicable/relevant to the Kotor MJC, as the Lovanja landfill is no longer
achievement)
              in operation.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/30/2003         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     06/29/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.06
  3     08/25/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.06
  4     02/22/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  0.52
  5     10/16/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  1.45
  6     01/10/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  1.58
                                                    Moderately
  7     04/09/2006     Moderately Satisfactory                                           1.78
                                                  Unsatisfactory
  8     09/17/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   2.14
                            Moderately              Moderately
  9     03/15/2007                                                                       2.29
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
 10     08/22/2007                                Unsatisfactory                         2.38
                          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
 11     11/09/2007                                Unsatisfactory                         2.38
                          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
 12     04/14/2008                                                                       2.38
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
 13     07/30/2008                                                                       2.38
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately
 14     10/10/2008                                Unsatisfactory                         2.38
                          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
 15     02/01/2009                                                                       2.44
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 16     04/05/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 17     08/10/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 18     11/07/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 19     02/20/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 20     07/28/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
 21     12/08/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                           2.44
                                                  Unsatisfactory
 22    01/25/2011       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 2.43
 23    04/10/2011       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 3.03
 24    12/25/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 4.96
                         Moderately              Moderately
 25    06/24/2012                                                                   9.60
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The global financial crisis in
                                                     2009 resulted in an
                                                     unanticipated financing gap, as
                                                     the Government became unable
                                                     to co-finance the project from
                                                     its budget. Price escalations
                                                     from the fall of the euro against
                                                     the US dollar, and changes in
                                                     the landfill design due to a
                                                     change in location, also
                                                     widened the financing gap.

                                                          Key changes were to: (i)
                                                          provide additional financing of
                                                          €4.5 million to cover the
                                                          financing gap; (ii) scale down
  08/11/2010        N         MS     MU            2.44
                                                          Component II by dropping the
                                                          planned closure of two existing
                                                          waste disposal sites; (iii)
                                                          reallocate funds from
                                                          Component II to Component I
                                                          for construction of the Mozura
                                                          landfill in Bar, at a new location
                                                          and not on a rehabilitated
                                                          existing site; (iv) increase the
                                                          percentage of eligible
                                                          expenditures to allow 100
                                                          percent financing for all
                                                          categories; and (v) extend of the
                                                          Credit closing date from
                                                          September 30, 2010 to June 30,
                                                          2012.
I. Disbursement Profile 4




4
 The original disbursement profile shown does not include the Additional Financing of EUR 4.5 million
(USD 5.9 million) approved in 2010.
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Montenegro’s beautiful coastal area, located on the eastern shores of the Adriatic Sea, is a
major tourist destination in the region. At the time of project appraisal in 2003, pollution
from waste in the coastal areas of Montenegro had reached alarming proportions. Solid
waste was not properly collected, and often accumulated in the streets, particularly during
the busy summer tourist season. Municipal solid waste disposal sites were operated as
unsanitary dumps, and uncontrolled burning of wastes was common. All this had serious
negative effects on the ecological and scenic values of the coastal area, and was the
subject of widespread protests by the area’s population. This situation posed a significant
threat to the tourism sector, undermining the sector’s sustainability and prospects for
additional growth – Montenegro had the target of increasing the number of tourist-nights
four-fold to 22 million, by the year 2020.

Although solid waste services in the former Yugoslavia, including in Montenegro, had
been relatively well developed, limited capital investment and inadequate maintenance
were the proximate causes of the deteriorating conditions in the sector. Underlying this
degradation was the lack of a coherent strategy for the sector. An institutional framework
to improve the efficiency and sustainability of solid waste collection and disposal
services, with clear distribution of responsibilities and sustainable institutions, was
lacking.

Development partners in Montenegro, including the World Bank, had focused on
addressing the most urgent needs and environmental problems in the country in the
immediate post-conflict period. At the time of appraisal, implementation of the
Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure (MEIP) grant from the Bank was underway,
supporting urgent investments for the short-term remediation of grave environmental
problems in the Bay of Kotor. The Environmental Sector Review for the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), carried out by the Bank in 2002, identified coastal zone
degradation in Montenegro as a crucial issue, and recommended improved solid waste
management as a key response.

The Government of Montenegro (GoM) had placed priority on the improvement of solid
waste collection and disposal services in the coastal area. A comprehensive strategy for
the solid waste sector was under development at the time of appraisal, with the support of
the Bank and other development partners, particularly the European Agency for
Reconstruction (EAR). The main elements of the GoM’s strategy for the sector were: (i)
a regional (multi-municipality) approach to solid waste disposal; (ii) enforcement of
environmentally sound collection and disposal practices, (iii) financial sustainability, and
(iv) delineation of clear responsibilities among local and central authorities for the
enforcement of regulations prohibiting the illegal dumping of wastes.




                                             1
It was in this context that the Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas
Project (MESTAP) was approved by the Bank in September 2003. The project directly
supported the Bank’s Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for FRY that was issued in 2002.
The TSS described the main challenges faced by Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) in
achieving sustainable economic development and pursuing reforms. The TSS also
identified tourism in Montenegro as one of the main sectors that could contribute to
continued growth in the country.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was to create ecological
and commercially sustainable solid waste collection and disposal services in Montenegro
coastal municipalities, needed to maintain a clean, environmentally attractive coastal area.

As part of the PDO section, the PAD also stated that the PDO would be achieved
through: (i) developing the sector’s institutional, policy and regulatory framework; (ii)
rehabilitating two current municipal disposal sites, that operate without sanitary
conditions, to function as properly designed regional sanitary landfills; (iii) closing
current disposal sites in an environmentally acceptable manner; (iv) provision of modern
collection equipment; (v) initiating a pilot recycling campaign; and (vi) strengthening
multi-municipal joint companies (MJC) that will be created to operate the two regional
solid waste disposal systems.

The original credit agreement, and the loan agreement for additional financing, contained
a slightly different statement of the PDO from that contained in the PAD: to create an
ecologically and commercially sustainable solid waste collection and disposal system, to
maintain a clean, environmentally attractive coastal area in the Republic of Montenegro,
in order to support the growth of tourism in the area. Section 2.1 below discusses this
divergence between the PAD and the legal agreements.

The key performance indicators, as stated in the PAD, were: (i) appropriate institutional
framework further developed and enforced; (ii) percentage of solid waste produced in the
project area that is collected on a set schedule and disposed in proper facilities; (iii)
number of current municipal disposal sites properly closed; (iv) percentage of wastes
separated at the source or recycled; (v) operational and financial sustainability of the
newly created MJCs; and (vi) continued public acceptance of the proposed solid waste
management solution.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

No revisions were made to the PDO or key indicators. However, as part of the project
restructuring, the target for the indicator on the number of uncontrolled disposal sites
properly closed, was revised downwards (see section 1.6 below for details).




                                            2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary target groups of beneficiaries identified in the PAD were the populations of
the project area – i.e. in the municipalities of Bar, Budva, Kotor, Tivat, and Ulcinj, as
well as tourists visiting the area, with improved collection of solid waste and a more
general improvement in environmental and aesthetic conditions.

The PAD also identified a much broader group of secondary beneficiaries. The
improvement of environmental conditions was expected to enhance the prospects for
further development of the tourism sector, which in turn would have a multiplier effect
on the economy, and spur further private sector investment. Thus, businesses and people
working in the tourism sector, and other closely related sectors, were expected to benefit
from the project, as was the wider Montenegrin economy from the growth of the tourism.

The project was also expected to benefit the Montenegrin authorities (national
government as well as municipalities), by helping them to consolidate their long-term
vision for environmental rehabilitation and the sustainable and efficient provision of solid
waste services.

1.5 Original Components

The project had three components:

Component I: Environmental Infrastructure. This component consisted of two sub-
components: Regional Landfills, and Collection Equipment. Two municipal solid waste
disposal sites that operated in non-sanitary conditions were to be rehabilitated and
converted into regional, sanitary landfills – in Kotor for the municipalities of Budva and
Kotor (also available for use by the municipality of Tivat); and in Bar for the
municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj. In addition, this component was to provide equipment
for the collection and transport of solid waste to the regional landfills.

Component II: Environmental Rehabilitation. This component consisted of two sub-
components: Closing of Uncontrolled Disposal Sites, and a Pilot Recycling Campaign.
Five existing unsanitary disposal sites in the participating coastal municipalities were to
be permanently closed in an environmentally sound manner, with long-term
environmental monitoring. A pilot program of waste recycling was to include (i) a public
dissemination campaign, (ii) the introduction of waste separation in selected locations,
(iii) a study on recycling options, demand and markets, and (iv) the improvement of
informal recycling practices at Kotor’s disposal site.

Component III: Technical Assistance. This component consisted of two sub-
components: Project Management and Sector Institutional Development. Project
management was to include final designs and supervision for the proposed landfills, and
audits and a follow-up social assessment. Support for institutional development of the
sector was to assist GoM in strengthening the newly created MJCs and in further
developing the regulatory framework for the sector.




                                             3
1.6 Revised Components

A restructuring of the project was approved by the Bank’s Executive Directors in August
2010, in conjunction with additional financing (see section 1.7 below). The project
restructuring maintained the three basic project components as listed in section 1.5 above,
but made significant revisions to components I and II.

Revision to Component I. The regional landfill in Bar, to serve the municipalities of Bar
and Ulcinj, would be constructed at a new location, and not on a rehabilitated existing
disposal site as envisioned during project appraisal. The new location for this landfill, at
Mozura, was endorsed by all key stakeholders following lengthy delays resulting from a
lack of stakeholder agreement on locating the landfill at any of three other potential sites
(including the existing disposal sites).

Revision to Component II. The proper closure of two remaining uncontrolled and
unsanitary disposal sites was dropped from this component, which was thus scaled down
from closing four such sites as originally envisioned at project appraisal. Corresponding
changes were made to the project’s results framework, specifically to the targets for the
key indicator on proper closure of uncontrolled disposal sites. Closure of these two
remaining disposal sites (Cafe in Bar, and Kruce in Ulcinj) was expected to be financed
through the solid waste program of the European Investment Bank (EIB) in Montenegro,
and allowed for the reallocation of funds from this component towards the construction
of the Mozura landfill under Component I.

1.7 Other significant changes

As part of the revisions to the project components, described in section 1.6 above, the
following significant changes were made to the project at restructuring, as described in
the project paper on additional financing and restructuring:

Additional financing: An IBRD loan in the amount of EUR 4.5 million (USD 5.9
million) provided additional financing to support the regional sanitary landfill at Mozura
for the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj. The need for additional financing arose mainly
from the global financial crisis in 2009, which resulted in an unanticipated financing gap
as the GoM became unable to co-finance the project from its budget, as originally
envisioned at project appraisal. Price escalations also contributed to the financing gap,
with changes in the landfill design due to the selection of a new location.

Reallocation of project funds from component I to II: With the scaling down of
Component II, XDR 1.26 million (USD 1.94 million) was reallocated to Component I for
the construction of the Mozura landfill. The reasons for this are the same as those
explained above in relation to the unanticipated financing gap.

Changes in financing conditions: The percentage of expenditures eligible for financing
was raised to 100 percent in all categories, up from the 80-83% originally approved. This
was in line with the country financing parameters for Montenegro at the time of approval




                                             4
of the additional financing and restructuring, and was due to the unanticipated financing
gap.

A significant, but perhaps not very prominent, change was also made to the terms of the
credit agreement, specifically to Schedule 5, such that the repayment provisions for the
sub-credit only applied to the Lovanja MJC. The rationale for this was that the Mozura
landfill, being an entirely new investment, should be financed by GoM as a capital
investment, and thus the obligation to repay the IBRD loan (and the remaining portion of
the IDA credit used for Mozura) should not rest with the Mozura MJC.

Extension of the closing date: The closing date for the original IDA credit was extended
by 21 months, from September 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012, in line with the closing date
for the additional financing provided by the IBRD loan. The project closing date had
been extended before, from March 31, 2008 as initially set at the time of the signing of
the IDA credit agreement. The need for these extensions arose from the lengthy delays in
project implementation, which are discussed in section 2.2 below.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis. The PAD and other documents related to project
preparation displayed a sound understanding of the fundamental challenges that
Montenegro faced in managing solid waste in the coastal area. First, that the collection
and disposal of solid waste in a sanitary manner is an important direct driver of a clean
coastal environment that sustains tourism. Second, and just as important, that long-term
success in the sector depends on improved governance, broadly defined – including
institutional arrangements, the regulatory framework, and financial sustainability for
operating entities.

Project preparation also took into account the lessons learned from the Bank’s experience
in Montenegro (including from the MEIP project) and from solid waste projects in other
countries. In retrospect, the PAD was highly prescient in mentioning the following
factors as being among those that would be critical for project success:
    • Client ownership at all levels in Montenegro, including the national government,
        participating municipalities, the implementing agency, and local stakeholders;
    • Addressing concerns of the local population, and other stakeholders, related to the
        siting and design of landfills, early in the project preparation process;
    • A strong and sustainable institutional framework – in this case, setting up MJCs,
        and putting in place legal agreements among the municipalities, PEW as
        implementing agency, and the MJCs; and
    • Strengthening cost recovery and financial management in the solid waste sector.

Assessment of Project Design. Given the background analysis on the fundamental
challenges that Montenegro faced in managing solid waste in its coastal area, the PDO to



                                            5
“create ecological and commercially sustainable solid waste collection and disposal
services…needed to maintain a clean, environmentally attractive coastal area? responded
directly to Montenegro’s needs and development priorities. The project objective also
clearly responded to the TSS identification of tourism as an important sector for
continued growth in the country. Indeed, the project made a strategic choice to focus on
the coastal area of Montenegro which is popular with tourists; in contrast, working on
solid waste in municipalities in inland areas of the country with few tourists would have
contributed relatively little to supporting the tourism sector. The PDO in the legal
agreements was basically identical to that in the PAD, with the additional phrase of “…in
order to support the growth of tourism in the area.? Although no direct explanation for
this is given in the project files, this addition simply made the overarching objective of
supporting tourism more explicit, without substantially altering the focus of the project
on the environmental and financial aspects of solid waste management.

It is worth asking, however, how realistic the PDO actually was. The PDO clearly sought
to support the growth of tourism, while being specifically accountable for improvements
in the solid waste sector – this much seems reasonable. On the other hand, to “create?
both environmental and financial sustainability was probably overly ambitious, in a
sector that had been performing poorly and needed fundamental, far-reaching reforms. A
more realistic objective would have been to “improve? the sustainability of the sector.

The project components were generally well structured in relation to the project
objectives. All elements of components I and II, in particular, contribute directly to
improved solid waste collection and disposal, within the broader context of
environmental sustainability and attractiveness for tourism. Public Enterprise Regional
Waterworks ‘Crnogorsko primorje’ (PEW) – an independent company fully owned by
the government, with the mandate to improve water services across multiple
municipalities in the coastal region – was chosen as the implementation agency due to its
regional role and its track record with the execution of the MEIP project.

The core of the project design rested on a regional (i.e. multiple municipality) approach
to solid waste disposal, with the concept of MJCs to operate the two regional landfills
that were to be financed by the project. These arrangements were carefully designed and
elaborated in detail in the PAD:
    • Each MJC was to be owned jointly by the relevant municipalities and PEW (for
        GoM).
    • Revenues were to consist mainly of tipping fees paid by the municipal waste
        collection companies, under service agreements that specified the fee level and
        quantities of waste to be disposed.
    • Each MJC was to be the legal owner of the respective landfill asset.
    • Each MJC was to be responsible for servicing its part of the proceeds of the IDA
        credit (both principal and interest) through a “sub sub-credit agreement? with
        GoM. (This requirement was removed for the Mozura MJC as part of the
        additional financing – see section 1.7 above.)
    • Detailed financial projections for each MJC were included in the PAD,
        demonstrating their projected financial viability.



                                            6
A crucial gap in the project design, however, was the lack of emphasis and attention to
the upstream collection of solid waste service fees from consumers (i.e. households,
businesses and other entities). Increasing cost recovery and financial sustainability of the
entire system depends on adequate fee collection, or on some combination of fees with
funding also drawn from general municipal budgets. The project’s results framework
included the critical assumption that “cost recovery mechanisms provide financing for
operation and maintenance.? Indeed, the project design basically assumed that this aspect
would be taken care of as part of the overall reform and institutional development of the
sector, and did not delve into this in sufficient detail.

As part of the overall institutional framework that included MJCs, the municipally-owned
communal services companies were to be responsible for the collection of both solid
waste and service fees. The financial projections for MJCs assumed that fees would be
set at an affordable level (around 1-2% of household income). However, apart from
including low fee collection as a possible risk (see also the sub-section on risk assessment
below), and a public awareness campaign to be implemented by PEW, the project design
did not propose any detailed actions or steps to be taken to strengthen the municipal
service companies and improve fee collection. In hindsight, this gap had a significant
effect on the final achievement of the financial sustainability part of the PDO.

Government Commitment and Stakeholder Consultations. Government commitment
– including from GoM, participating municipalities, and PEW – was adequately secured
at the time of entry, but it is questionable if consultations with stakeholders were fully
sufficient. The PAD explicitly recognized the risk of public opposition to the siting of
regional landfills, and described how the Bank received letters from an NGO expressing
concerns about the site in Kotor in relation to inadequate local consultations, adverse
effects on the local environment, and the proximity of the nearby airport. The Bank’s
response to these concerns is detailed carefully in the PAD discussion of possible
controversial aspects, and is also reflected in the sections of the PAD on environmental
and social assessments.

Yet, shortly after the project was approved by the Board in September 2003, small-scale
local protests took place at the Kotor site. This led PEW and the mayors of Budva and
Kotor to send a joint letter to the Bank, reaffirming their commitment to the project and
explaining how they would fully and satisfactorily address ongoing local opposition.
Although it appears that both the Bank and the Montenegrin authorities exercised the
necessary due diligence at entry, this early opposition presaged the difficulties
experienced subsequently during project implementation.

Assessment of Risks. The assessment of risks that was undertaken as part of project
preparation was comprehensive and well summarized in the PAD, in the table on critical
risks. Most of the risk ratings were ‘moderate’ or ‘substantial’, with an overall project
risk rating of ‘moderate’. Given the issues already mentioned above (i.e. on local
opposition to landfill sites, and the need to increase user fee collection), in hindsight
some of these risks should probably have been rated as ‘high’, with the overall project




                                             7
risk as ‘substantial’. As it turned out, some of the risk mitigation measures turned out to
be insufficient during project implementation. For example, despite the comprehensive
preparatory work for the project that included stakeholder consultations and
environmental and social assessments, issues related to siting of the regional landfills
plagued project implementation and resulted in lengthy delays subsequently.

2.2 Implementation

Siting of Regional Landfills. Difficulties related to the siting of the regional landfills,
originally intended to be at the existing uncontrolled disposal sites in Bar and Kotor,
came to predominate most of the period of eight years during which the project was
implemented. These difficulties can mostly be ascribed to local public resistance to
potential landfill sites, with the so-called attitude of ‘not in my backyard’ (NIMBY).
Correspondingly, political resistance by elected officials at the municipal level can be
understood to be at least in part a reflection of local citizens’ concerns.

In Kotor, the Lovanja sanitary landfill operated between 2004 and 2007, taking in waste
collected from Budva, Kotor and Tivat. This landfill operated under a temporary license
from the municipality of Kotor, on the understanding that updates to Kotor’s spatial plans
for a long-term landfill at the site would lead to the construction of subsequent phases.
However, after three years, the municipality declined to renew the license, changing its
position on the use of the site.

One reason given by Kotor was its dissatisfaction with the fact that although it was not
necessarily the municipality generating the largest quantity of waste in the northern
coastal area, it was playing host to the landfill and thus receiving all of the area’s waste.
On this view, the other municipalities were benefiting from having the landfill in Kotor.
However, it is not clear what arrangement would be acceptable to Kotor itself, other than
to simply site the region’s sanitary landfill somewhere else. In addition, beginning in
2004, legal actions against Kotor municipality were pursued by four groups of claimants,
who claimed historical ownership of portions of the Lovanja site. At least three of these
claims have been recognized by the courts, although the prior records of the land registry
showed that the municipality owned the entire site.

In Bar, work on the regional landfill for Bar and Ulcinj was seriously delayed – by over
four years – due to a lack of stakeholder agreement on locating the landfill at any one of
three potential sites, including the existing disposal sites. The Mozura site was finally
endorsed by all key stakeholders in late 2008, and gazetted for this purpose in the
municipality’s detailed urban plan. Yet, even in this case, the EIB declined GoM’s
request to co-finance the Mozura landfill, citing concerns related to potential seismic risk
and site visibility (see also the sub-section on additional financing below).

The Bank suspended disbursements on the project between June 2007 and March 2008,
and came close to canceling the project in 2008, due to the serious delays and
implementation difficulties experienced by the project, in the lead up to the final selection
of the Mozura site. The suspension of disbursements was understandable given that in
2008, the performance of the project was without doubt unsatisfactory given the closure



                                             8
of the Lovanja landfill (with no alternative site in Kotor), and the prospect of no suitable
site being found in Bar.

Project Restructuring and Additional Financing. The changes made as part of the
project restructuring and the approval of additional financing in 2010 were instrumental
in getting the project back on track, and in supporting the turnaround from the
unsatisfactory performance of the project at its low point in 2008. The reasons for the
various changes made, and the need for additional financing, are described in sections 1.6
and 1.7 above.

Important factors in the design of this successful turnaround were the two major lessons
learned from the experience with the short-lived Lovanja landfill in Kotor, as mentioned
in the project paper. First, the importance of ensuring adequate political buy-in and the
long-term engagement of all stakeholders. Second, investment in a landfill with sufficient
design capacity for longer term operations – 25 years in the case of Mozura, compared to
four years in the case of the initial (and only) phase of Lovanja.

The Bank’s appraisal of the additional financing was also careful to ensure a complete
and careful review of EIB’s concerns with the Mozura site. On site stability in relation to
seismic risk, the Bank team’s detailed assessment concluded that regional seismic risk is
significant, but that the Mozura site itself appears geologically homogeneous and stable.
The assessment also concluded that site visibility could be easily addressed through
landscaping with appropriate vegetation.

In relation to the additional financing also, a waiver was obtained from the Executive
Directors for a policy exception to OP 13.20 which requires satisfactory implementation
of a project as one of the prerequisites for additional financing. At the time of approval of
additional financing, implementation progress of the project was rated ‘moderately
unsatisfactory’, because award of the contract for the design and construction of the
Mozura landfill was dependent on adequate financing being available.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The project’s results framework and the indicators therein, as laid out in the PAD
and subsequently modified during project restructuring, were adequate with some
shortcomings.

First, some indicators actually consisted of more than one indicator, and included
multiple targets. For example, Indicator 1 was on both the collection of solid waste, and
the disposal of such waste. Even though there was only one target set, measuring
achievement of this indicator required tracking two different (albeit related) measures.
Another example would be Indicator 8 on financial sustainability of MJCs, which
included targets for four individual financial ratios. Such combined indicators should
have been structured as separate indicators with individual targets.

Second, the results framework contained indicators on activities and outcomes that were
not directly addressed by the project. For instance, although the project financed waste



                                             9
collection equipment (e.g. trucks and containers) for the use of municipalities, the project
design did not directly address the operations of the municipal waste collection
companies. Yet, the service indicators on frequency of collection and frequency in the
cleaning of containers are primarily indicators of these companies’ performance.

In addition, the financial performance of the MJCs was to be assessed through four
indicators. Two of these indicators – the working ratio (ratio of operating expenses
excluding depreciation to collected revenues) and the operating ratio (ratio of collected
revenues to operating expenses excluding depreciation) – were mathematically the
inverse of each other, and thus redundant. The results framework set targets for these
ratios of 0.65 and 0.95 respectively; this meant that achieving the target for the working
ratio entailed overachieving by as much as 60 percent in excess of the target for the
operating ratio.

Implementation and Utilization. Throughout project implementation, regular progress
reports were prepared and submitted by PEW, and the Bank’s Implementation Status and
Results (ISR) reports also tracked the indicators in the project’s results framework. The
actual utilization of these indicators to improve project implementation is difficult to
evaluate. As noted above, for much of the time during which the project was
implemented, delays related to landfill siting were the predominant issue. Some
indicators were simply not relevant, or data was not available by definition – this is
reflected to a certain extent in the Data Sheet of this ICR as well, where indicators related
to the performance of the Mozura landfill are incomplete given the landfill’s very short
period in operation at the time of writing.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The only safeguard policy triggered during project preparation was
Environmental Assessment, for which the project fell under Category B (Partial
Assessment). This categorization was maintained at project restructuring and additional
financing. Environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and environmental management
plans (EMPs) were prepared as part of initial project preparation and for the Mozura
landfill that obtained additional financing.

The environmental issues addressed in the EIAs and EMPs were typical of projects
involving landfills. One notable feature was the issue of the Lovanja landfill site
potentially attracting birds that would pose a threat to the safety of aircraft utilizing the
nearby Tivat airport. Adequate measures were proposed and pursued in this respect, with
careful monitoring by the Bank during project implementation – these included ensuring
full coverage of the wastes and acquiring a mechanical falcon.

Financial management. A comprehensive financial management assessment was
performed as part of project preparation. PEW’s track record and capacity were assessed
to be generally sound. This was borne out throughout the years of project implementation,
where financial management was consistently found to be satisfactory. Quarterly
financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner. In addition, annual audit




                                            10
reports of the project accounts by independent external auditors raised no significant
issues.

Procurement. Procurement activities under the project were reviewed periodically
during project supervision, and found to be generally satisfactory. The assessment of
PEW’s procurement capacity at the time of appraisal noted that PEW had limited Bank
procurement experience, and recommended that all contracts undergo prior review. As
project implementation progressed, PEW gained more experience with procurement and
the assessment at the time of approval of additional financing found PEW’s procurement
capacity to be adequate.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In the short-term, the transition arrangements to post-completion operation of
investments financed by the project relate mainly to the Mozura landfill, which
commenced operations only in July 2012, just after project closure, and within two
months of the ICR mission in September 2012. In terms of staffing of the Mozura MJC,
the ICR mission learned that the necessary technical staff to meet current needs have
been recruited, and that additional staff for leachate management and environmental
monitoring will be recruited in due course. The position of Executive Director was still
vacant, however, as the Mozura MJC Board of Directors could not reach a consensus on
selecting a candidate despite a recruitment process that identified a few qualified
candidates.

Future monitoring and evaluation of the project outcomes in relation to the operations of
the Mozura landfill could include indicators of the landfill’s performance from the
project’s results framework (i.e. density of compacted waste, period between compacting
and coverage of waste, and the financial sustainability ratios of MJC Mozura). The
timing for this could be sometime after July 2013, once the landfill has completed its first
full year of operations.

Broader questions arise with regard to the institutional framework and overall financial
sustainability of the solid waste collection and disposal system in the participating
municipalities. Specifically, concerns related to the financial sustainability of their
operations were raised by the Mozura MJC and by the Bar municipal waste collection
company, during the ICR mission’s visit – suggesting that issues still remain to be
resolved, at least at the level of the operating entities.

Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, GoM was to pass on the IBRD loan proceeds for
the landfill. An asset transfer agreement provided for the transfer of ownership of the
Mozura landfill from GoM to the Mozura MJC, as a grant. At the time of the ICR
mission, the asset transfer itself had yet to be effected, although GoM has assured the
Bank that the process for this was well underway.

Notably, the Mozura MJC expressed concern to the ICR mission that repayment of the
IBRD loan is to be made from the MJC’s own operating surpluses. Although such
concerns are unjustified according to the Loan Agreement, the MJC appeared to feel



                                            11
driven to maximize the waste quantities disposed into the its landfill, in order to obtain
the necessary revenue to service the loan repayment. Rather than the primary
consideration of disposing into a sanitary landfill for environmental reasons, this
motivation is in effect a perverse outcome/incentive towards quantity maximization for
financial reasons.

On the other hand, Bar’s waste collection company (and to a lesser extent, Ulcinj also)
was concerned about its revenue, in terms of the tariffs set and the low rate of fee
collection from households and businesses. The key issue for the waste collection
company is that disposing at the Mozura landfill means that it now has to pay a tipping
fee to the Mozura MJC, compared to not having to pay such fees previously at the old
disposal sites.

These issues were meant to be addressed in part through the service agreements between
the Mozura MJC and the respective municipalities. The signing of the service
agreements, and accompanying legal opinions, were a covenant in the legal agreements
between the Bank and Montenegro, and were a specific condition to be fulfilled before
construction of the Mozura landfill could commence. The service agreements should
therefore remain the point of reference for the operating entities involved.

In any case, since the municipalities and GoM (through PEW) own both the municipal
waste companies and the MJCs, this problem is in some ways a transfer pricing issue,
where funding shortfalls in any part of the system will ultimately have to be covered by
the government. On the other hand, as discussed in section 2.1 above, cost recovery has
clearly been a challenge for the solid waste sector in Montenegro, which this project did
not adequately address, neither in design nor implementation. The Bank could therefore
seek to continue the policy dialogue with GoM on the solid waste sector in Montenegro,
and potentially undertake follow-on analytical and advisory work on financial
sustainability issues for the long-term management of the sector.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Objectives

Rating: Highly Relevant

The PDO is assessed as highly relevant to current priorities, as it sought to support the
growth of tourism in Montenegro’s coastal area, by improving the environmental and
financial aspects of solid waste collection and disposal. Tourism continues to be an
important revenue earner and priority sector for Montenegro today. Moreover, preparing
for European Union (EU) accession is a national priority for Montenegro, and is actively
supported by the Bank. EU accession will require compliance with EU standards on
environment and solid waste management, again confirming the relevance of the PDO




                                           12
today. In this regard also, Montenegrin legislation requiring disposal of all solid waste
into sanitary landfills took effect in 2009. On the other hand, the PDO’s stated objectives
to create financial sustainability in the sector were overly ambitious given the pre-
existing challenges and the fundamental reforms that were needed.

3.1.2 Design and Implementation

Rating: Relevant

The project design and implementation are assessed as relevant, being broadly consistent
with the stated project objectives. Both Component I on regional landfills and collection
equipment, and Component II on closing uncontrolled disposal sites and promoting waste
recycling, contributed directly to the objective of improving the environment of the
coastal area in terms of solid waste. The rating in this area would in fact have been highly
relevant, if not for the shortcomings of Component III in terms of its support for sectoral
reform and in particular the limited focus on cost recovery. Yet it should be recognized
that the completion and opening of the Mozura landfill is a very significant milestone for
the solid waste sector in Montenegro, as it is only the second sanitary landfill in the
country after Podgorica’s.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Partly Achieved

The PDO is assessed to have been partly achieved, based on the key outcome indicators
in the project’s results framework, described in Section F of the Data Sheet.

With respect to Indicator 1 that measures both collection and proper disposal of solid
waste, almost all waste in all five participating municipalities is now collected, with the
greatest improvements seen in Ulcinj. As for disposal, the municipalities of Budva, Kotor
and Tivat have joined Bar and Ulcinj in disposing into the Mozura landfill. Although this
move by the northern municipalities to dispose at Mozura was not part of the project
design, it has come about by mutual agreement between them and MJC Mozura, and is
further evidence of the success and value of the Mozura landfill. The fact remains that the
project set out to deliver two operating sanitary landfills, but only one, Mozura, is
currently operating. The targets for Indicator 1 were thus mostly achieved.

Indicator 2 on the closure of two uncontrolled disposal sites was fully achieved. The
Grabovac site in Tivat, and the uncontrolled site originally at Lovanja in Kotor, were both
closed through the project’s financing. It is important to note that two other sites that
were identified for closure during project appraisal have also been closed, although
financed not through the project but by the relevant municipalities – Cafe in Bar, and
Novoselje in Budva.

Indicator 3, on MJCs that are operational and financially sustainable based on underlying
service and financial indicators, was only partly achieved. The Lovanja MJC operated the
Lovanja landfill satisfactorily during 2004 – 2007; it now continues to operate the



                                            13
recycling facility at that site, but this does not fulfill the intent of this indicator which
assumed an operating sanitary landfill. The Mozura MJC has been operational since July
2012, but the full indicators of its financial performance are not yet available.

Indicator 4, on continued public acceptance of the project’s solid waste management
solution as measured by a follow-up social assessment, was achieved. A social survey
undertaken in May 2012 indicated that the project had met the target of at least 70 percent
of surveyed respondents approved of the project.

In addition, although not explicitly measured in the outcome indicators of the results
framework, the long-term commercial (financial) sustainability of solid waste services in
the coastal area has not been adequately addressed (see also sections 2.1 and 2.5 above),
although it is part of the project’s ambitious objectives in the PDO. Financial
sustainability of the MJCs themselves was, however, measured through the indicator on
financial ratios of the MJCs.

The outcomes achieved by the project can be seen to have been causally linked to some
of the output indicators. For the output indicators for Component I on environmental
infrastructure, the indicators related to solid waste collection (coverage of the collection
system, frequency of collection) contributed directly to outcomes on collection and for
improving the coastal environment. Likewise, the output indicators for Component II on
environmental rehabilitation (waste separation and recycling rates) contributed directly to
improving collection, reducing the need for disposal, and reversing environmental
degradation. The indicators for Component III (reform and regulatory framework, and
financial sustainability of MJCs) contributed to commercially sustainable solid waste
services.

Beyond the results framework itself, perhaps the most telling indicator of success with
regard to actual improvements in the coastal environment lies in the growth of tourism in
the area. The Montenegro Statistical Office’s Release No. 285 (October 2012) reported
almost 8.8 million tourist-nights in 2011, up from the PAD’s estimate of approximately
5.5 million tourist-nights in 2002. Of course, tourism growth depends on a variety of
factors such as the state of the global economy, and the availability of tourism
infrastructure and services – all external to the project. Although it is impossible to
establish the counter-factual of what would have happened without it, the project is at
least partly responsible for improvements in solid waste collection and disposal in the
coastal area, and any visitor to the area today can attest to the area’s general cleanliness.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Efficient

Overall, this ICR finds that the total project cost of USD 15 million was reasonable in
relation to the benefits for sustaining tourism in the coastal area.

The financial analyses undertaken at the time of project appraisal, and also for the
additional financing, showed relatively low financial rates of return (FRRs) in the range



                                            14
of 3 to 4 percent. Accordingly, the net present values (NPVs), calculated using a discount
rate of 10 percent, were negative (the FRR being the discount rate at which NPV would
be zero). A re-estimate undertaken as part of this ICR yielded a slightly higher FRR of
5.4 percent, for the Mozura landfill. It was noted that the low rate of return and negative
NPV were due to the assumption of tariffs set at a low level, to ensure affordability
relative to household incomes. The conclusion was that even with the low FRR, the
investment was financially justified given the stable positive cash flows expected. Annex
3 provides more details of the financial analyses undertaken.

The financial analyses above should not be taken by themselves to be entirely indicative
of the project’s efficiency – these were analyses of the regional sanitary landfill
component of the project only, and not of the total project investments. Of the total
project cost of USD 15 million (see Annex 1), about USD 8.6 million was spent on the
Mozura landfill (plus another USD 1.8 million or so from GoM’s exemption of related
duties and taxes), so the financial analysis of the Mozura landfill given above covers just
about two-thirds of the final project cost.

Cost effectiveness was also used as a measure of project efficiency, with the PAD
estimating the cost of investments at EUR 12.5 per capita. The financial analysis for
additional financing cited EUR 22.3 per capita. In both cases, it was asserted that the
project investments were efficiently sized to deliver solid waste services to the coastal
population. No explanation was provided as to how these estimates were actually derived.
Given the estimate of the coastal area’s permanent population of about 200,000, and
tourists in excess of half a million, it appears that again it was not the total project cost
that was used, but only the estimated sanitary landfill cost.

From a broader economic perspective, most of the project’s benefits arise through
externalities, including from improved environmental conditions and greater
attractiveness of the coastal area for tourism. Tourism generates direct monetary benefits
– receipts from international tourism in Montenegro in 2010 were USD 713 million
(source: World Development Indicators) – and also has multiplier effects on the wider
economy. In addition, intangible aesthetic benefits from an improved environment are
usually non-monetary in nature. The other investments under the project, including for
collection equipment, closure of uncontrolled disposal sites, and recycling, were
important contributions to the final project outcomes.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The project’s
objectives were highly relevant, while project design and implementation were relevant,
to the challenges of the solid waste sector in Montenegro. The PDO was, on balance,
partly achieved. There was strong achievement in terms of solid waste collection in the
participating municipalities, and in waste disposal with the Mozura sanitary landfill, all
contributing to an environmentally attractive coastal area that supports tourism growth.
More broadly, a notable achievement of the project was to support fundamental reforms



                                              15
in the sector, in the context of new legislation that took effect in 2009, to bring the sector
in line with EU standards. In particular, the MJCs established as part of the project
demonstrate how the MJC model can be operated, within an updated legal and regulatory
framework. The project was also efficient when the overall financial investment of USD
15 million is placed in the context of the coastal area’s permanent population of about
200,000, tourists in excess of half a million, and the very significant contribution of
tourism to the area’s economy.

On the other hand, the project also had significant shortcomings. First, there is still no
sanitary landfill in the northern coastal area. Although Budva, Kotor and Tivat are now
disposing their wastes at Mozura, it should be noted that the original design intent of
Mozura was to serve the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj only. The northern
municipalities thus face higher transport costs in transporting waste to Mozura, compared
to if they had a sanitary landfill at a location closer to them. A second significant
shortcoming is in in terms of not clearly achieving long-term financial sustainability for
the operating entities involved in solid waste services. This latter shortcoming can be
seen to be due to having set an overly ambitious PDO, and associated targets, in the first
place.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

One outcome of the project that has not yet been mentioned is the positive impact for the
community of 50 or so Roma people who had been long-term residents at the Lovanja
site prior to the project, while Lovanja was still an uncontrolled disposal site. They have
now benefited from employment at the recycling facility that was established through the
project and which is still under operation. The facility operates in compliance with all EU
health and safety standards, including personal protective gear for workers. The project’s
achievement in this regard is an example of good practice, as the livelihoods of waste
pickers is an issue that commonly arises in solid waste projects.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As already discussed earlier in this ICR, part of the project’s objectives was to contribute
to institutional strengthening and reform of the solid waste sector in Montenegro,
centered on the model of joint ownership of MJCs to operate regional sanitary landfills.
A key achievement of the project has been to support fundamental reforms in the sector,
providing a road map and operating model for other municipalities in the country.
Although issues remain with the overall financial sustainability of the system, particularly
with respect to cost recovery from consumers, the project has been instrumental in
establishing the MJC model in Montenegro, and demonstrating that it is workable.
Importantly, the necessary legal and administrative steps were taken to establish and
operate the two MJCs for Lovanja and Mozura. The lessons and experience from these
MJCs and from the project in general would be useful for continued institutional reform
of solid waste management in Montenegro.




                                             16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to the development outcome is rated as moderate. Maintaining the
development outcomes achieved by the project requires the coastal municipalities to
continue operating solid waste collection services as they do now, and the Mozura
landfill to continue in operation with the municipalities of Bar, Ulcinj and Budva
disposing their waste there. Maintenance of equipment will be needed, as well as longer-
term replacement of collection equipment in the municipalities, and operating equipment
at Mozura.

The main risk is financial, specifically that cost recovery and fee collection from
consumers will not increase, thus requiring support from general municipal / government
budgets. An external shock to the government’s fiscal position, for example, would put
pressure on available funding. On the other hand, this risk is mitigated by factors such as
the strong commitment of GoM and the municipalities to improving solid waste
management, the momentum of preparation for EU accession, and the support of other
development partners such as EIB for the sector. It is in fact likely that the outcomes
achieved by the project will expand over time – in the near-term, with Kotor and Tivat
now beginning to dispose their waste at Mozura, and in the longer term, with a solution
eventually being found to locate and construct a sanitary landfill for the northern coastal
municipalities.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank’s efforts in project preparation reflected a sound understanding of the
challenges facing the solid waste sector in Montenegro, as well as the lessons learned
from other solid waste operations of the Bank. Project components were well structured
in relation to project objectives. The safeguards and fiduciary assessments were
comprehensive. The detailed plans and arrangements for the MJCs directly supported
institutional reform for the sector. Yet, the Bank clearly underestimated the potential
complications and pitfalls with siting the regional landfills, and did not adequately
anticipate the resistance that was to materialize during project implementation. The
project design also did not actually address the issue of improved cost recovery for solid
waste services, as is reflected in the results framework which does not actually have a
direct indicator measuring cost recovery from users/consumers.




                                           17
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Project implementation was closely supervised by the Bank. Missions were undertaken
very regularly, on average at least three times a year, sometimes in conjunction with
missions for other projects in the country. Visits to participating municipalities, including
disposal sites, were the norm. Implementation issues were described in detail in aides-
memoire and ISRs, and sufficient attention was paid to safeguards and fiduciary aspects
as needed.

The decision to restructure the project and provide additional financing at the same time
was critical to the final achievement of the project’s objectives. Without this, the Mozura
landfill would not have been constructed, in which case Montenegro’s coastal area would
almost certainly have no sanitary landfill today. The Bank did also consider the option of
canceling the project in 2008, given the very serious delays and poor performance of the
project up to that point. Restructuring and additional financing are assessed here to have
been the best response to GoM’s request and the ongoing commitment of the relevant
municipalities. Rather than giving up on the project, the Bank team sought to proceed
with the additional financing to ensure that the Mozura landfill was constructed, once the
availability of the site was confirmed.

However, a moderate shortcoming that can be identified in the quality of supervision was
the relatively limited attention given to financial sustainability and cost recovery issues,
which was carried through from this same shortcoming in project design.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On balance, the Bank’s performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The Bank
generally fulfilled its roles well for project supervision, and exercised the correct
judgment in opting not to cancel the project, but to restructure and provide additional
financing instead. However, the moderate shortcomings identified in project preparation,
design, and supervision yield an overall rating of moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance can be assessed in terms of the performance of the national
government and of the participating municipalities. The commitment of GoM and the
participating municipalities to achieving the project objectives was mixed. At the level of
GoM, the Ministry of Urban Planning and subsequently the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Tourism provided the overall vision and direction for the solid waste
sector in the country, closely following project implementation, and encouraging the
participating municipalities to perform better. The municipalities improved their solid
waste collection services, utilizing collection equipment financed by the project, with



                                            18
clearly visible results in terms of environmental cleanliness. They also worked together to
establish the MJCs, entering into the necessary service agreements between the municipal
waste collection companies and the MJCs, as provided for in the project design. However,
the fact remains that Lovanja’s landfill is closed due to Kotor municipality’s
unwillingness to allow the landfill to continue to operate, and there is as yet no agreement
on a long-term solution for a sanitary landfill in the northern coastal area. In Bar, on the
other hand, the municipality has facilitated the construction and operation of the Mozura
landfill, but the question remains whether more could have been done by GoM and the
municipality to reduce the lengthy delays in the years it took to finally agree on the
Mozura site. Given these moderate shortcomings, therefore, government performance
(GoM and municipalities combined) is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

PEW’s performance as the implementing agency is assessed as satisfactory overall, based
on the fulfillment of its key roles for project implementation and fiduciary management
as stipulated in the Subsidiary Agreement with GoM. Project supervision ratings for
financial management and procurement during project implementation were generally
satisfactory. This is well supported by PEW’s track record of timely submission of
required reports, and the generally clean audit opinions provided by the external auditors.
In overseeing overall project implementation, PEW coordinated and supervised required
tasks, including the engineering, feasibility, and EIA assessments in accordance with
required procedures, in spite of the overall outcomes. One might ask whether PEW could
have taken on a more proactive role in engaging various stakeholders and institutions to
resolve the issues with the landfill locations, and whether the associated unsatisfactory
implementation progress recorded for most of the project life could be fairly attributed in
part to PEW’s actions or failures. This ICR concludes that PEW fulfilled its tasks but had
limited direct influence on the municipalities, which were ultimately responsible for
decision-making concerning the sites. As earlier alluded to, stronger influence and
intervention with the municipalities could perhaps only have come from GoM.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

On balance, the overall rating of borrower performance is moderately satisfactory. This
rating recognizes the significant achievements in solid waste management that have been
delivered by the coastal municipalities including their municipal waste collection
companies and the MJCs, with the facilitation of GoM and PEW. However, the lengthy
delays in project implementation, in particular with the siting of the regional landfills,
and the lack of a long-term solution for the northern coastal area, were shortcomings that
are assessed as ‘significant’ on the part of the govenrment, even though the Mozura
landfill is now operating.




                                            19
6. Lessons Learned

A positive lesson learned is that an effective combination of government commitment,
investments, and public participation can achieve real improvements in solid waste
services, and result in a significant positive impact on the local environment. The
experience of the project is proof of how the commitment of the national and local
governments, execution by municipal enterprises, and provision of the right equipment
has very effectively reversed the environmental degradation from solid waste in
Montenegro’s coastal area. A related lesson is that this same combination can catalyze
fundamental reforms in the solid waste sector, but these changes take time to be effective
and cannot be expected to happen overnight.

Another lesson learned is that financial sustainability in solid waste management is
incomplete if cost recovery from primary waste generators is not addressed. This lesson
is not new in any way, and much has been said about the importance of cost recovery in
solid waste. But the project design and implementation experience clearly show how the
focus on designing and establishing the MJCs, and the exhaustive efforts spent on landfill
siting issues, resulted in a neglect of cost recovery issues and the uncertain financial
sustainability of the system overall.

Perhaps the most important lesson learned from the project is that local opposition to
siting landfills can be a serious stumbling block to project implementation, resulting in
lengthy delays and potential project failure. This can arise even if extensive consultations
with stakeholders have been undertaken. The practical recommendation for any future
regional landfill in Montenegro would therefore be to never underestimate the risks of
local opposition. In this regard, the experience from this project has wider relevance for
Bank projects involving landfills in other countries; it underlines the importance of
ensuring all necessary due diligence, as well as full compliance with all applicable
safeguard policies.

A broader, related lesson that can be drawn is that since landfill projects are inherently
risky from a non-technical standpoint, a multi-municipality and multi-site approach can
help mitigate these non-technical risks. In the case of this project, failure in establishing a
long-term sanitary landfill in the northern set of coastal municipalities has been offset by
success in the southern set of municipalities. The practical recommendation in this regard
would be to adopt a project design that specifies realistic targets while anticipating high
individual probabilities of failure. So, for example, a project design could involve
multiple landfill sites in multiple municipalities, in anticipation that some of these sites
would not succeed in the end, but thereby also ensuring a good chance that some sites
would succeed.




                                             20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower provided comments on the draft ICR (see part (b) in Annex 7), pointing
out that the municipalities of Kotor and Tivat had entered into agreements with the
Mozura landfill in November 2012, and have thus begun to dispose their solid waste into
that sanitary landfill. The final text of this ICR has been revised accordingly, to reflect
this development.

(b) Other partners and stakeholders

No comments were received from other partners/stakeholders.




                                            21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 5

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Percentage of
           Components              Estimate          Estimate 6
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                 (USD millions)   (USD millions)
I. Environmental Infrastructure         6.30              13.94                           221
II. Environmental Rehabilitation        1.50               0.59                            39
III. Technical Assistance               0.70               1.14                           163
             Total Baseline Cost        8.50              15.67                           184
Physical Contingencies                                                                     0
                                                  0.65                  0.00
Price Contingencies                                                                        0
                                                  0.35                  0.00
             Total Project Costs                  9.50                 15.67             165
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                  0.00             N.A.
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                  0.01             N.A.
     Total Financing Required                     9.50                 15.68             165


(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                           Percentage of
                Source of Funds                Estimate        Estimate
                                                                            Appraisal
                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                         2.50            2.46           98
International Development Association (IDA)      7.00            7.67          110
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                 0.00            5.56          N.A.
Development (IBRD) 7
                             Total Financing     9.50           15.68          165




5
  The figures for Bank financing in this annex differ from those shown in the Data Sheet, due to variations
in exchange rates between USD, XDR and EUR during the years of project implementation.
6
  Includes additional financing of EUR 4.5 million approved in 2010.
7
  The IBRD loan was provided as additional financing in 2010.



                                                    22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component I. Environmental Infrastructure

Regional Landfills
• The Lovanja sanitary landfill in Kotor was constructed in 2004, and operated for three
   years, serving the municipalities of Budva, Kotor, and Tivat. During this period,
   almost all of the waste produced in these three municipalities was disposed at
   Lovanja. The landfill was subsequently closed in an environmentally sound manner.
• The Mozura sanitary landfill in Bar was constructed in 2011, and went into operation
   in July 2012. It is the second sanitary landfill in Montenegro, after Podgorica’s. With
   an overall design capacity of 25 years, Phase 1 is designed for ten years. The Mozura
   landfill serves not only the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj, but also the municipality
   of Budva which began disposing at Mozura in August 2012.

Collection Equipment
• Equipment was procured for the five participating municipalities in 2004 and in 2012,
   summarized in the table below:

                       2004                                      2012
Bar                                      • Compactor: 18m3
                                         • Compactor: 18m3 with washing container system
                                         • Compactor: 25m3
Budva     •   Vacuum cleaner             • Tow truck-Skip loader
          •   110 containers             • Compactor: 4m3
Kotor     •   Tow truck-Skip loader      • Compactor: 13m3
          •   Two compactors: 13m3       • 100 containers, different sizes
          •   Compactor: 9m3
          •   Container cleaning truck
          •   Vacuum cleaner
          •   260 containers
Tivat     •   Compactor: 9m3             • Compactor: 18m3
          •   Compactor: 16m3
          •   110 containers
Ulcinj                                   • Compactor: 4m3
                                         • Two compactors: 13m3
                                         • Two compactors: 18m3
                                         • Compactor: 18m3 with washing container system
                                         • Tow truck-Skip loader
                                         • Excavator-style backhoe – front loader
                                         • 340 containers, different sizes




                                           23
Component II. Environmental Rehabilitation

Closing of Uncontrolled Disposal Sites
 • The Grabovac site in Tivat, and the uncontrolled site originally at Lovanja in Kotor,
    were both closed through the project’s financing. (Two other sites that were
    identified for closure during project appraisal have also been closed, although
    financed not through the project but by the relevant municipalities – Cafe in Bar, and
    Novoselje in Budva.)

Pilot Recycling Campaign
• A pilot recycling campaign was initiated through the project, and a small recycling
    station was installed at the Lovanja sanitary landfill site. This facility was handed
    over to the Lovanja MJC in November 2006, and is still operational. It includes
    equipment for sorting solid waste based on use of a trammel system for opening of
    the waste bags with preliminary sorting, conveyor belts, recycling cabin, press-balling
    machine, containers, and tractor.

Component III. Technical Assistance

Project Management
• This sub-component included the preparation of designs for the Lovanja and Mozura
   sanitary landfills, and supervision of construction. External audits of the project were
   also undertaken annually.

Sector Institutional Development
• Through this sub-component, technical support was provided for the establishment
   and operation of the MJCs for Lovanja and Mozura, including service agreements
   with respective municipalities.




                                           24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PAD provided a limited economic analysis and a more detailed financial analysis of
the project. In terms of the economic analysis, the PAD stated quite correctly that most of
the expected project benefits would be through externalities, including improved
environmental conditions and greater attractiveness of the coastal area for tourism. The
PAD did not, however, attempt to provide a quantified estimate of these benefits. This
ICR concurs that the project’s positive externalities are significant, given the large pool
of project beneficiaries consisting of local residents in the coastal area as well as the high
numbers of seasonal tourists. The Montenegro Statistical Office’s Release No. 285
(October 2012) reported almost 8.8 million tourist-nights in 2011, up from the PAD’s
estimate of approximately 5.5 million tourist-nights in 2002. Tourism generates direct
monetary benefits – receipts from international tourism in Montenegro in 2010 were USD
713 million (source: World Development Indicators) – and also has multiplier effects on
the wider economy.

The position taken in the PAD was that the project was justified since the financial
analysis showed a positive rate of return, without taking into account the intangible
benefits and positive externalities of the project. This ICR shares the view of the PAD
that the project was justified – more specifically, that the project was economically
justified, since the economic rate of return (ERR), taking into account externalities,
would be exceed the already positive financial rate of return (FRR).

The PAD presented a very detailed financial analysis for the two MJCs that were to
operate the sanitary landfills financed by the project. Key assumptions included tariffs
(tipping fees) of EUR 22 per ton initially, rising to about EUR 34 per ton for the Kotor
MJC, and EUR 38 per ton for the Bar MJC, after the first five years of operation. Waste
quantities to be disposed at each landfill were estimated at around 20,000 tons annually.
Capital expenditure for each landfill was assumed to be approximately EUR 4 million.
Over a 20-year time horizon, the FRR – based on actual cash flows and not including
depreciation – was thus calculated to be 3% for the Kotor MJC, and 4% for the Bar MJC.
Net present value (NPV), using a discount rate of 10%, was negative for both landfills:
EUR -1.36 million in Kotor, and EUR -1.26 million in Bar.

Financial analysis for the Mozura sanitary landfill investment was also performed during
appraisal of the additional financing for the project in 2010. Tariffs were assumed to start
at EUR 21 per ton in 2012, rising to EUR 28 per ton by 2021. Annual waste quantities
from the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj were estimated to start at 40,000 tons, rising to
46,000 tons in 2021. Capital expenditure was assumed to be EUR 9.6 million (including
taxes and duties of EUR 1.3 million, to be covered by GoM). Over a 20-year period, FRR
was calculated to be 2.9%, with NPV of EUR -3.1 million at a discount rate of 10%. The
financial analysis noted that the low rate of return and negative NPV were due to the
assumption of tariffs set at a low level, to ensure affordability relative to household
incomes. The conclusion was that the investment was financially justified given the
stable positive cash flows.




                                             25
    For the ICR, the FRR and NPV were re-estimated for the Mozura landfill. The tariff was
    assumed, conservatively, to remain unchanged at EUR 20 per ton, which was the amount
    paid by the municipality of Budva at the time of the ICR mission. Annual waste
    quantities were assumed to be 60,000 tons, being the current quantities disposed by the
    municipalities of Bar, Ulcinj and Budva 8. Actual capital expenditure of EUR 6.6 million
    was used, this amount being the total investment in construction, equipment, and related
    consultancy services. (GoM’s contribution of the exemption of taxes and duties was not
    included as it is not an actual cash flow for the purposes of calculating FRR.) Annual
    operating costs were taken from PEW’s latest estimates – starting at EUR 285,000 in
    2013, and rising to EUR 385,000 in 2022. Over a ten-year period from 2013 to 2022,
    FRR was calculated to be 5.4%, with NPV of EUR -1.1 million at a discount rate of 10%.
    A shorter period of ten years was used conservatively, since the Mozura landill is
    receiving higher quantities of waste, from more municipalities, than originally expected.
    The ICR’s re-estimates of FRR and NPV look more positive than the estimates at the
    time of additional financing, mainly due to the use of a lower figure of the actual cost of
    the Mozura investment, and lower estimates of operating and maintenance costs.

    The table below provides a summary and comparison of the selected key input
    variables/assumptions and results from the financial analyses from the PAD, the
    additional financing, and ICR. Figures shown are rounded.

                                                             PAD                      Additional            ICR
                                                                                      Financing
Sanitary landfill                                In Kotor             In Bar            Mozura            Mozura
Capital expenditure (EUR)                          4,000,000          4,000,000          9,600,000        6,600,000
Time horizon (years)                                       20                 20                 20             10 9
Initial waste quantities (tons per year)              20,000             20,000             40,000           60,000
Tariff (EUR per ton)                                       22                 22                 21            20 10
                                                (rising to 34      (rising to 38      (rising to 28
                                                after 5 years     after 5 years)     after 5 years)
FRR 11 (%)                                                  3                  4                2.9             5.4
NPV 12 at 10% discount rate (EUR)                 -1,360,000         -1,260,000         -3,100,000       -1,100,000




    8
      The analysis here was performed before November 2012, when Kotor and Tivat also began to dispose
    their waste at Mozura.
    9
      A shorter time horizon was used, conservatively, since the Mozura landfill is receiving higher waste
    quantities (from additional municipalities) than originally expected. FRR is nonetheless higher, even with
    the shorter time horizon.
    10
       This was the tariff paid by Budva at the time of the ICR mission, and is assumed, conservatively, to
    remain unchanged. If the tariff is raised over time, the FRR and NPV would improve accordingly.
    11
       Although not calculated directly, project ERR would be higher than FRR, due to positive externalities.
    12
       A ‘standard’ discount rate of 10% was used for calculating NPV. NPV would be positive, however, at a
    discount rate lower than FRR. Such a lower discount rate would be justifiable given the project’s positive
    social and environmental externalities.



                                                        26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Ventura Bengochea           Sr Water and Sanitation Spec.     LCSWS Peer Reviewer
Janis Bernstein             Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSSD
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene Engineer                          GPOBA
Joseph Formoso              Senior Finance Officer
Michael Gascoyne            Financial Management Specialist   CSRRM
Anders Halldin              Safeguards Coordinator
Takao Ikegami               Sanitary Engineer
Rita Klees                                                          Peer Reviewer
Manuel Marino               Engineer, Environment Spec.       ECSSD TTL
Kishore Nadkarni            Financial Analyst
Stanley Peabody             Social Scientist
Gennady Pilch               Legal Advisor
Andreas Rohde               Sanitary Engineer                 ECSSD Co-TTL
Supervision/ICR
Arben Bakllamaja            Consultant                        ECSSD Finance
Sabine Beddies              Senior Urban Specialist            SDV
Salim Benouniche            Sr Procurement Spec.              ECSPS
Francois Boulanger          Urban Economist                   ECSSD
Konrad Buchauer             Consultant                        ECSSD Waste Water
Rita Cestti                 Sr Water Resources Economist      ECSSD
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene Infrastructure Specialist         GPOBA
Olav Rex Christensen        Sr Financial Management Spec.     ECSPS
Hermine de Soto                                               ECSSD
Roman Dinslage              Consultant                              Solid Waste
Ama Esson                   Program Assistant                 ECSSD Admin. Support
Benito Fernandez            Consultant                        ECSSD
Miroslav Frick              Operations Analyst                ECSSD
Michael Gascoyne            Sr Resource Management Officer    ECSPS
Ahmet Gokce                 Senior Procurement Specialist           Procurement
Don Hawkins                 Consultant                              Tourism Devt.
Nicola Ille                 Sr Rural Development Specialist   ECSSD
Bekim Imeri                 Social Scientist                  ECSSD
Henry Laino
Marcus Lee                  Urban Economist                   FEUUR ICR author
Maria Teresa R. Lim         Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Sanela Ljuca                Operations Analyst                ECCME
Sanyu Lutalo                Senior Environmental Engr.        ECSSD TTL
Silvia Mauri                Consultant                        ECSSD




                                           27
Shelley McMillan           Water Resources Specialist       ECSSD
Gennady Pilch              Sr Counsel                       LEGES    Legal
Wolfhart Pohl              Senior Environment Specialist    ECSSD
Julie Rieger               Counsel                          LEGLE    Legal
Andreas Rohde              Sr Sanitary Engineer             ECSSD    TTL
Karin Shepardson           Senior Operations Officer        ECSSD
Dragana Varezic            Program Assistant                ECCBM    Admin. Support
Frank van Woerden          Senior Environmental Engineer    ECSSD    Solid waste
Danijela Vukajlovic-Grba   Economist                        ECSPR
Michael John Webster       Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.      ECSSD    TTL
Ulrich Ziedler             Consultant                                Ecologist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                       17                        134.97
  FY04                                        9                         54.64
  FY05                                      0.2                          1.11
                           Total:            26                        190.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                        6                         33.10
  FY05                                       14                         96.54
  FY06                                       21                        102.90
  FY07                                       20                         89.14
  FY08                                       15                         66.30
  FY09                                       15                         71.19
  FY10                                       25                        123.82
  FY11                                       26                        108.12
  FY12                                       21                         91.00
                           Total:           163                        782.11




                                          28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                       29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                         30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(a)    Borrower’s Completion Report

The Government of Montenegro’s completion report is attached here in full as it is not
more than 10 pages long.




         Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project


                         PROJECT ID: P079116 & P120659




                 IDA Credit No: 3823 YF, IBRD Loan No: 8002-ME




         BORROWER’s IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                       PODGORICA - BUDVA, October 2012




                                           31
1.      Project Data

Name: Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Area Project (MESTAP)
Project ID: P079116 & P120659 / Credit and Loan No: 3823YF, 8002-ME
Country: Montenegro
Region: Europe and Central Asia


Sector/sub sector: Solid waste management (95%) Public Administration – Central
government administration (5%),

Borrower: Montenegro


Implementing Agency: Public Enterprise “Regionalani vodovod Crnogorsko
primorje?,
Budva, Montenegro (PEW)


     Approval dates:          Signing dates:      Effectiveness     Closing dates:
                                                      dates:
IDA -September 11,2003       October 13, 2003      April 8, 2004    June 30, 2012
IBRD – December 20, 2010     December 23, 2010    March 22, 2011    June 30, 2012



     2. Principal Performance Ratings per Project parts

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory =MS, Moderately
Unsatisfactory =MU, U =Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

Part A Environmental Infrastructure
Part A-1/ MJC 1 Improvement of environmental infrastructure for Kotor, Budva
and Tivat municipalities
Outcome:                            MS
Sustainability:                     MU
Institutional Development Impact:   S
Bank Performance:                   HS
Borrower Performance:               MS
Implementing Agency Performance:    HS

Part A-2/ MJC 1 Improvement of environmental infrastructure in Bar and Ulcinj
municipalities




                                         32
Outcome:                                   HS
Sustainability:                            HS
Institutional Development Impact:          S
Bank Performance:                          HS
Borrower Performance:                      MS
Implementing Agency Performance:           HS

Part B Environmental Rehabilitation
Outcome:                                   S
Sustainability:                            MS
Institutional Development Impact:          MU
Bank Performance:                          S
Borrower Performance:                      MU
Implementing Agency Performance:           S

Part C Technical assistance
Outcome:                                   MS
Sustainability:                            MU
Institutional Development Impact:          MU
Bank Performance:                          S
Borrower Performance:                      MU
Implementing Agency Performance:           S


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design

       3.1Project Objectives

        The objectives of the Project were to create an ecologically and commercially
sustainable solid waste collection and disposal system, to maintain a clean,
environmentally attractive coastal area in Montenegro, in order to support the growth of
tourism in the area.

       3.2 Original Project Components

       There were three components originally designed:

Part A: Environmental Infrastructure

        Improvement of environmental infrastructure of the coastal municipalities of Bar,
Budva, Kotor, and Ulcinj and other municipalities of the Republic of Montenegro that
own shares in MJC1 or MJC2, through the rehabilitation of two existing municipal
landfill in the municipality of Kotor and Bar , conversion of such landfills into regional
landfills, and provision of equipment for the collection and transport of solid waste to the



                                            33
regional landfills, through the provisions of goods, works and services.

Part B: Environmental Rehabilitation

1.      Permanent closure of five existing unlicensed waste disposal sites in an
environmentally sound manner, and institution of long-term environmental monitoring of
such sites, through the provision of goods and works.

2.      Implementation of a pilot recycling program, including public dissemination
campaign, separation of solid waste at the source, study on recycling options, demand,
and markets, and improvement of the current informal recycling practices in the Kotor
landfill, through the provision of goods, works and services.

Part C: Technical Assistance

       Provision of support to MJC1, MJC2 and PEW in the management,
implementation and monitoring of the Project, through the provision of goods and
services, including the audit of records, accounts, and financial statements.

       3.3 Changes in Project Components

        In January 2008, the Government of Montenegro assessed that a part of the
project referring to the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj (MJC2) developed from the mere
beginning in unsatisfactory manner. Besides the reasons which dealt with the lack of
planning documentation, the inadequate steps taken by municipal administration, lack of
cooperation and uncertainty into the decision making process were the main reasons
which caused complete slowdown of the project. Local governance crises in Ulcinj that
resulted in several extraordinary elections additionally hampered the implementation of
the project. Those were the reasons for which the Government asked the urgent
continuation of this project to have been treated as a priority assignment of the new local
authorities in Bar and Ulcinj. The efforts made by the Government resulted in passing the
necessary decisions (Decision on joint organization of the activities related to the solid
waste disposal in the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj and the Decision on Foundation of
the multi municipal company in charge of managing the landfill «Mozura» including the
decision on land use permit for the sanitary landfill.)

       In May 2008, GoM sent the Restructuring Action Plan to the Bank in order to
provide all necessary conditions for successful implementation of the project, including
additional financing. The Bank approved the Government’s requests and provided
additional financing through IBRD loan and parties agreed to amend Development Credit
Agreement (IDA). Changes in Project Components were as follows:

Part A: Environmental Infrastructure

       Improvement of environmental infrastructure of the coastal municipalities of Bar,
Budva, Kotor, Tivat and Ulcinj and other municipalities of the Borrower that own shares
in MJC1 or MJC2, through the provisions of goods, works and services for:



                                            34
       1. the rehabilitation of existing municipal landfill in the municipality of Kotor and ,
          conversion of such rehabilitated landfill into a regional landfill.

       2. the design and construction of a regional sanitary landfill to serve the
          municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj, and


       3. the provision of equipment for the collection and transport of solid waste.

Part B: Environmental Rehabilitation

       1.       Permanent closure of two existing unlicensed waste disposal sites in an
                environmentally sound manner, and institution of long-term environmental
                monitoring of such sites, through the provision of goods and works.

            3.4 Assessment of Development Objective

      In the overall perspective, the Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist
Area Project’s development objective was generally achieved, that is, in respect to
Components 2 and 3, the objective was posed well, and as such it was achieved, or
should be achieved in the near future, while on the other hand the objective aimed under
Component 1 was not completely fulfilled. Although the Project development objective
as originally formulated was perhaps too broad, and, at one point of Project’s
implementation, it was decided to be restructured, as previously explained.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

            4.1 Outcome / Achievement of objectives

            The objectives were envisaged to be achieved by:

(i)         developing the sector’s institutional, policy and regulatory framework;

(ii)   rehabilitating two current municipal disposal sites that operate without sanitary
conditions, to function as properly designed regional sanitary landfills;

(iii)       closing current disposal sites in an environmentally acceptable manner;

(iv)        provision of modern collection equipment;

(v)         initiating a pilot recycling campaign; and

(iv)    strengthening multi municipal joint companies (MJC) that will be created to
operate the two regional solid waste disposal systems. Additional to the environmental
benefits the project seeks to achieve, it aims at bolstering tourism prospects by
eliminating the important obstacle that represents the current solid waste collection and
disposal problems that are gravely affecting environmentally sensitive tourist areas in the
coast.



                                                35
Key project performance indicators to measure progress towards achievement of the
objectives are:

(i)     appropriate institutional framework further developed and enforced;

(ii)   percentage of solid waste produced in the Project area that is collected on a set
schedule and disposed in proper facilities;

(iii)   number of current municipal disposal sites properly closed;

(iv)    percentage of wastes separated at the source or recycled;

(v)     operational and financial sustainability of the newly created MJC; and

(vi)    continued public acceptance of the proposed solid waste management solution.

        4.2 Implementation

       Progress of the Project towards the planned results /results framework/ and
achievement of the PDO results, based on the mentioned performance indicators is
summarized below:

(i)     Development of sector institutional framework: The project has helped to support
establishment of an institutional framework to ensure that solid waste management in the
coastal municipalities is carried out in a sustainable manner. The framework is based on
(a) multi-municipal joint companies to manage disposal of solid wastes in regional
sanitary landfills serving multiple municipalities, and (b) municipally owned communal
services companies responsible for waste collection. The Lovanja Ltd. landfill
management company was established in 2004 and it efficiently operated the landfill and
recycling plant supported by the project to serve the Kotor, Tivat and Budva
municipalities from 2004 to 2007. Following closure of the landfill in 2009, it continues
to complement the communal services companies’ operations by facilitating management
of recycled waste, and is planned to be used for operation of the new landfill for these
areas to be constructed by EIB under a separate on-going program. The Multi-municipal
company “Možura?Ltd has been legally founded, regional landfill has been constructed
and a Service level Agreement between “Možura“Ltd and Bar and Ulcinj Municipalities
has been signed for the company which currentlyy operate the regional landfill. The
communal companies are currently managing waste collection in these municipalities.
There is however need for further strengthening of the sector institutions, through staff
training and other capacity building efforts.

(ii)   Improvements in waste collection and disposal (indicated by percentage of solid
waste produced in the Project area that is collected on a set schedule and disposed in
proper facilities):

Currently, waste produced in Bar, Ulcinj and Budva municipalities is collected on a set
schedule and disposed of in proper facilities.




                                            36
       - During the year 2004, modern equipment for collection and transport of waste
was procured for the local public utilities in Kotor, Budva and Tivat, with a positive
impact on the environmental condition, level of hygiene, and the quality of services
rendered by these utilities to the inhabitants and tourists. During the year 2012, modern
equipment for collection and transport of waste was procured for local public utilities in
Ulcinj and Bar and some equipment which was lacked has been procured Kotor, Budva
and Tivat, with a very strong positive impact on the environmental condition in the
municipalities, especially in Ulcinj municipality.

       A summary of equipment procured for these municipalities is provided in Table 1
and Table 2 below:


Table 1: Equipment procured in the year 2004, for Kotor, Budva and Tivat
municipalities

Kotor                         Tivat                     Budva

Tow truck-Skip loader

Two compactors 13 m3
                              Compactor 9 m3
                 3
Compactor 9 m                                           Vacuum cleaner
                              Compactor 16 m3
Container cleaning truck                                110 containers
                              110 containers
Vacuum cleaner

260 Containers




Table 2: Equipment procured in the year 2012, for Ulcinj, Bar, Budva, Kotor and
Tivat municipalities




                                           37
        Ulcinj           Bar             Budva            Kotor            Tivat

Two                One compactor    One tow truck-   One compactor     One compactor
compactors 18      25 m3            Skip loader      13 m3             18 m3
m3

Two                One compactor    One compactor    100 containers-
compactors 13      18 m3            4 m3             different size
m3

One compactor      One compactor
18 m3 with         18 m3 with
washing            washing
container          container
system             system

One compactor
4 m3

One tow truck-
Skip loader

One excavator
style backhoe-
front loader

340 containers-
different size



(iii)     Rehabilitation of unsanitary municipal disposal sites function as properly
          designed regional sanitary landfills / Construction of new landfills:

          -      One Sanitary landfill was constructed in 2004 and served the
          municipalities of Kotor, Budva and Tivat. More than 95% of the solid waste
          produced in these three municipalities was disposed on this sanitary landfill
          between 2004 and 2007, with a very positive impact on the local environmental
          conditions. After three years of operations, the landfill was closed in
          environmentally sound manner. The closing was due to the decision of
          Municipality of Kotor not to extend the permit.

          -        A second landfill was constructed in the municipality of Bar and the
          facility is serving the municipalities of Ulcinj, Bar and Budva




                                           38
 (iv)      Proper closing of municipal disposal sites (Two sites out of the targeted two 13
           completed): Two unsanitary waste dumpsites were closed in Grabovac near Tivat
           Airport. One municipal disposal site that operated without sanitary conditions in
           Kotor MJC area was rehabilitated and reconstructed to function as properly
           designed regional sanitary landfill operating in accordance with European
           Directive No. 31/1999. All resulted in improved environmental conditions in
           these municipalities. Two other sites in Kotor and Ulcinj, originally to be closed
           through the project, are now to be financed by EIB following the restructuring of
           the project in 2010, and are currently in the design phase.

     (v)   Introduction of waste recycling: A pilot recycling campaign was initiated through
           the project, and a relatively small recycling station was installed for the sanitary
           landfill “Lovanja? together with equipment for sorting the municipal solid waste
           based on use of a trammel system for opening of the waste bags with preliminary
           sorting, conveyor belts, recycling cabin, press-balling machine, containers, tractor
           etc. The recycling station was delivered to “Lovanja? management on November
           6th, 2006, and is still operational. Currently about 12 percent of the waste in the
           Kotor MJC area is recycled.


     (vi) Operational and financial sustainability of the newly created MJC:

           As mentioned the joint multi municipal company (MJC) Lovanja was established
           through the project in order to operate the landfill for the Kotor, Budva and Tivat
           municipalities. MJC1 Lovanja ltd. was able to fulfill the indicators of service
           quality and financial viability while the landfill operated. Despite closure of the
           landfill at Lovanja, it is still active and operating existing infrastructure –
           recycling plant, storage and platforms and weighbridge in cooperation with
           communal companies of Kotor and Tivat. The company is expected to operate the
           new landfill for the same municipalities; to be constructed under the on-going EIB
           financed operation.



        The Multi-municipal company “Možura?Ltd is now fully operational but the
staffing process is still not completed (executive manager is still to be hired.) The Service
level Agreement is however designed to ensure that it operates in a financially and
operationally sustainable manner.

      The main additional result of the Project that were not foreseen as project’s direct
outcome but have resulted from project activities has been its positive impact on the local


13
   Four sites were originally to be closed with support from the project. However during the 2010
restructuring the Government requested that these be removed from the project, and financed through the
EIB program that is financing several such investments, and the funds be reallocated to contribute to
financing the Mozura landfill.




                                                 39
Roma community near the Lovanja site, that has been able to benefit from employment at
the recycling plant established under the project.

       4.3 Institutional Development Impact

        The implementation and sustainability of the Project highly depended on
institutional arrangements, which had to be made between the municipalities and the
Government on one side, and between the Government and the Bank on the other side.
This refers mainly to the institutional setup related to the creation of regional multi-
municipal companies which was the process undertaken in parallel with construction of
regional sanitary landfills. Different institutional arrangements including comprehensive
Service Level Agreements have been developed.

        It is very important that the Government of Montenegro intends to apply the same
institutional set-up for the management of solid waste in the rest of the country

5.Sustainability

        The sustainability of the project largely depend on: (a) successful operation of the
multi-municipal landfill site on an autonomous and commercial basis, with full support
from all levels of Government; (b) achieving financial viability by gradually increasing
revenues to cover adequate operating and maintenance expenditures, the debt service, and
a portion of investments; and (c) the long-term impact of the technical assistance
component on the efficiency and operations of the sector. Hence it was critical for the
project to force communal solid waste companies to accept and learn the importance of
paying for services received and to target funding to least-cost investments only.

        The operating cost of the communal companies is partially covered through the
service tariffs and the rest through the municipal budget and cross financing that comes
from different activities of these companies.. The Mozura regional sanitary landfill
company is operating as a commercial entity and the landfill disposal fee is set on cost
recovery principles. Actuall estimates indicate that the fee that the Mozura landfill
company is charging Ulcinj, Bar and Budva municipalities will cost these municipalities
about quarter of the previous cost of disposal in the Podgorica landfill (including
transport costs). The current cleaning fee represents about 1.5 to 2,5 percent of the
average household monthly budget in the coastal region.

       The project is expected to be operationally and financially sustainable since
adequate tariffs to guarantee proper operation and maintenance of the infrastructure are
secured as part of the Service Level Agreement between Ulcinj, Bar and Budva
Municipalities and “Možura? Ltd. which (apart of cost covering tariff) includes “put or
pay? options for municipalities.




                                            40
6.Bank and Borrower performance

6.1 Bank’s performance

        The overall Bank performance can be assessed as satisfactory, both in landing and
in supervision of the project. The number of Bank supervision missions was sufficient.
Bank staff and experts hired by the Bank took part in all major meetings with all
stakeholders (Government, municipalities, NGO’s, etc.) and gave key contribution to
resolving all capital issues. Also through the whole project, the Bank staff had intensive
communication via e-mail, faxes, etc. with PEW and other stakeholders through which
they shared their views and experiences obtained during implementation of other projects
regarding certain issues. During procurement procedures, the Bank experts responded
regularly with detailed and extensive comments regarding the submitted bidding
documentation.

6.2 Borrower’s performance

         The overall performance of the Borrower cannot be assessed as satisfactory,
although the fact remains that for the Government, Municipalities and PEW this was the
first project of such complex nature involving many different stakeholders from diverse
institutions. PEW, as Project Implementation Unit, sufficiently improved during the
project implementation and carried away its obligations in a timely and satisfactory
manner, although the project was rated as high-risk, from the very beginning

7. Lessons Learned

        Only with involvement of both central and local authorities and their commitment
to sustainable development of tourism and other economic activities in the coastal region
of Montenegro -through capital investments- these kinds of projects can be satisfactorily
implemented. This also includes a wide public information and public awareness
campaign, so that each citizen realizes all the benefits and all the risks of the certain
project. Such campaigns have to be realized prior the beginning of implementation of the
project. Capital investments should have as a result the benefit for the whole local
population, but in the same time should secure the protection of environment and
sustainable spatial development, which consequently requires substantial institutional
strengthening. For implementation of all high-risk projects from environmental point of
view, the domestic institutional and legislative framework has to be made more
transparent with clear division of responsibilities between central and local authorities. In
that view, urban planning process has to be based on the relevant studies that will make
undisputable the decision of the locations for all kinds of regional solid waste facilities.
Having in mind small population, territory and limited suitable locations for solid waste
disposal, leading role in taking decisions process has to be transferred from
municipalities to the central government.




                                            41
(b)      Borrower Comments on Bank ICR

The following comments were received from Mr Sinisa Stankovic, Deputy Minister,
Ministry of Sustainable Development and Tourism:

      “Representatives of the World Bank in Montenegro submitted Implementation
      Completion Report and Results Report for the Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive
      Tourist Areas Project to Ministry of Sustainable Development and Tourism for
      suggestions and opinion. Generally, I mostly agree with the report.

      However, please mark my suggestions: Regarding on justification of overall outcome
      rating, on page 15th 16th and 22 it is necessary to make changes in the text relating to
      the municipalities Tivat and Kotor. Your statement in the last line is that Kotor and
      Tivat are continuing to dispose waste on unsanitary landfill. Please, let me remind
      you that Kotor and Tivat signed an Agreement with Možura on November 2012 so
      they are disposing waste on landfill Možura.

      Thank you for providing us this document and I certainly hope for future
      cooperation.?




                                              42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The project did not have cofinanciers other than the Government of Montenegro.

No comments were received from other stakeholders.




                                         43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document. August 20, 2003.

Development Credit Agreement. Credit Number 3823 YF. October 13, 2003.

Project Paper on Restructuring and Additional Financing. August 2010.

Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement. December 23, 2010.

Loan Agreement. Loan Number 8002-ME. December 23, 2010.

Project Supervision Aides-Memoire

Project Implementation Status and Results Reports.

Project Financial Reports

Project Procurement Plans

Lawsuit and Court Judgment Documents on Claims to Lovanja Land




                                          44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 39672
BOS. &
 HERZ.                                                                                                  19˚00'                                                                                                                                                    19˚
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MONTENEGRO
           Crkvice
                                                                                                                                               ´
                                                                                                                                         Sekulici                                                                                                                                                                                              ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE
                                                                                                                                    Danilovgrad                           Bioce                                                                                                                                                                  TOURIST AREAS PROJECT
                                             Risan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES
                                                                                                                                         Spuz                                                                                                                                 Ceh otin                                                                                                   MAJOR HIGHWAYS
  42˚30'
                                            Perast                                                                                                                                      42˚30'                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OTHER ROADS
  Herceg-                                   Kotor     Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                        BOSNIA AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
  Novi                                        Kotor Municipality                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pljevlja
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                                                       AIRPORTS

                              Tivat                                                                                                                                    Podgorica                                                                                                                                                                                                         MUNICIPALITIES

                         Tivatski Bay                               Kotor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                            Cetinje                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES (approximate)

               Radovici                                             LOVANJA:                                                                                                                                                                                              v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                    closed dumpsite and                                                                                                                                                 Plužine                           Zabjlak
                                                                    sanitary landfill, in                                                              Golubovci                 Tuzi
                                                                    Kotor municipality                 ´
                                                                                                   Rijeka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lju bo
      Tivat Municipality            GRABOVAC:                                                  Crnojevica                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vi
                                    closed dumpsite, in                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kom                                                                                                                                                 SERBIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ja
                                    Tivat municipality                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ta                                     Bijelo Polje




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                             Plavnica                                                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              inc
                                                                                                                                                                                                 43˚                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43˚




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                Budva                       Milocer                                                                                                                                                               ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Savnik                                                                            Mojkovac




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Li m
                                                                                             Sveti Stefan                           Virpazar
                                                                                  Budva Municipality                                                      Lake                                                                                                  Ze
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Berane                   Rozaje
                                                                                                                                                         Skadar                                                                                                                                                                                     v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kolasin
                                                                                        Petrovac
                                                                                                                                                                              ALBANIA                                                                                 v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Niksi´




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Andrijevica




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ta
                                             Adriatic                                                                                       Stari
                                                                                                                                            Bar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KOSOVO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ca
                                               Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ze




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mora
                                                                                                                                         Bar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CR                                                                                                                                                                                      Plav
                                                                                                                                              Bar Municipality                                     OA                                                                              Danilovgrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Herceg-
                                                                                                                          MOZURA:                                                                                   Novi
                                                                                                                 sanitary landfill, in                            Ulcinj Municipality                                                      Kotor
                                                                                                                   Bar municipality                                                                                           Tivat
  4200'                                                                                                                                                                                 42˚00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kotor Municipality                                     Podgorica




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cetinje                                                                         v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a                                 Cij e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M orac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Budva Municipality
                                                            PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                    Sveti-                             Tivat Municipality                                                                                                                                          ALBANIA
                                                                                                                                                                      Dorde
                                                            MAJOR HIGHWAYS                                                                    Ulcinj                                                                                  Budva
                                                            OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bar Municipality
                                                            TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La
                                                            MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sk         ke
                                                                                                                                                                 Sveti Nikola                                                                                                                             ad
                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ar
                                                            MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES (approximate)                                                                                                                         Adriatic
                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                  Bar                                                                                                          MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                 42˚                                                                                                                                                     42˚
                                                                                                                  0             5           10          15

                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ulcinj
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0    5    10      15    20    25
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    For detail,                               Ulcinj Municipality
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KILOMETERS
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                         19˚00'                                                                                                     see map at left                              19˚                                                                                                                             20˚

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECEMBER 2012
