                                                       CONFORMED COPY


                                                    LOAN NUMBER 8002-ME




                    Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing to Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas
                                 Project)


                                 between


                             MONTENEGRO

                                   and


            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT




                          Dated December 23, 2010
                                                            LOAN NUMBER 8002-ME

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated December 23, 2010, between MONTENEGRO (“Borrower”)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing (“Additional Financing”) for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

1.03.   For the purposes of this Agreement and the General Conditions, all references to
        ‘Project Implementing Entity’ shall be deemed to refer to PEW (as defined in the
        Appendix to this Agreement), and all references to ‘PEW’ shall be deemed to
        refer to a Project Implementing Entity.

                                 ARTICLE II -LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four million and five hundred
        thousand Euros (EUR 4,500,000) as such amount may be converted from time to
        time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section
        2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that
        upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
        interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
        shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
                                          -2-


        the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
        Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
        continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
        shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
        Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
               of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
               (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
               Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
               portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
               from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting
               of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
               principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
               establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
               Variable Rate.

        (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
               is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
               in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
               provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
               Guidelines.

        (c)    Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
               Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
               premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
               itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
               with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
               allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE III - PROJECT

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PEW (Project
        Implementing Entity) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
        General Conditions, the Subsidiary Agreements, and the Service Agreement.
                                            -3-


3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
        ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                     ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following:

        (a)     The MJC2 Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
                repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
                MJC2 to perform any of its obligations under the MJC2 Subsidiary
                Agreement or the Service Agreement.

        (b)     The PEW Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
                or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PEW to
                perform any of its obligations under the PEW Subsidiary Agreement.

        (c)     The Borrower, MJC2 or PEW have failed to perform any of their
                respective obligations under a Subsidiary Agreement.

        (d)     MJC2, the Municipality of Bar or the Municipality of Ulcinj have failed
                to perform any of their respective obligations under the Service
                Agreement.

4.02.   The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following:

        (a)     Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this
                Agreement occurs.

        (b)     Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this
                Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice
                of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the PEW Subsidiary Agreement has been executed and authorized or ratified by
        the parties to it, in form, substance and a manner satisfactory to the Bank and all
        conditions to the effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely a legal opinion
        satisfactory to the Bank, stating that the PEW Subsidiary Agreement has been
        duly authorized or ratified by each of the respective parties, and is legally binding
        upon each of the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
                                          -4-



5.03.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                Stanka Dragojevica 2
                81000 Podgorica
                Montenegro

                                                                Facsimile:

                                                                382 20 224 450

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

                INTBAFRAD               248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.         64145(MCI)
                                 -5-


AGREED at Podgorica, Montenegro, as of the day and year first above written.


                       MONTENEGRO




                       By /s/ Igor Luksic

                                                 Authorized Representative


                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                       By /s/ Jan-Peter Olters

                                                 Authorized Representative
                                           -6-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                  Project Description


        The objectives of the Project are to create an ecologically and commercially
sustainable solid waste collection and disposal system, to maintain a clean,
environmentally attractive coastal area in Montenegro, in order to support the growth of
tourism in the area.

        The Project consists of Part A.2 of the Original Project, namely the design and
construction of a regional sanitary landfill to serve the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj
and the following additional part, namely the provision of equipment for the operation of
the regional sanitary landfill.
                                           -7-


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

1.      The Borrower shall maintain, during the entire term of the Project, the PEW in a
form and with functions, staffing, resources, terms of reference and qualifications
required for Project implementation and satisfactory to the Bank.

2.        The Borrower shall cause PEW to be responsible for overall Project
implementation and coordination and for procurement, financial management, reporting,
monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that
MJC2 operates the Landfill Facility in accordance with this Agreement, the Service
Agreement, the MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement, the MJC2 EMP and in accordance with
financial, technical, engineering, administrative, commercial, insurance, environmental
and social practices acceptable to the Bank.

3.        The Borrower shall upon completion of construction of the Landfill Facility
transfer ownership of the Landfill Facility and related assets to MJC2 under contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall provide evidence to the Bank
that all conditions of effectiveness to such contractual arrangements have been fulfilled
and shall provide a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, stating that said contractual
arrangements have been duly authorized or ratified by each of the respective parties, and
are legally binding upon each of the parties thereto in accordance with their terms.

B.      Subsidiary Agreements

1.      PEW Subsidiary Agreement: To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to PEW under the PEW
Subsidiary Agreement for the purposes of implementation of the Project, under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:

         (a)      The PEW Subsidiary Agreement shall set forth the responsibilities and
functions of PEW on behalf of the Borrower and shall provide that PEW shall: (i)
implement the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of the PEW
Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) shall exercise its rights under the PEW Subsidiary Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan; (iii) shall not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive
the PEW Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions without prior approval of the
Bank; (iv) perform in accordance with the provisions of the PEW Subsidiary Agreement
all of the obligations of the PEW as set forth in the PEW Subsidiary Agreement; (v) take
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                                           -8-


necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (vi) not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project.

2.      MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement: To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall, prior to commencement of construction of the Landfill Facility, enter into
the MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank,
which shall include the following:

        (a)      The MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement shall set forth the responsibilities and
functions of MJC2, including, but not limited to, MJC2’s obligation to coordinate with
PEW and to operate the Landfill Facility in accordance with this Agreement, the MJC2
Subsidiary Agreement, the Service Agreement, the MJC2 EMP and in accordance with
financial, technical, engineering, administrative, commercial, insurance, environmental
and social practices acceptable to the Bank.

         (b)     The MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement shall provide that MJC2 shall: (i)
implement the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of the MJC2
Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) shall exercise its rights under the MJC2 Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; (iii) shall not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive the MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement or any of its       provisions without prior
approval of the Bank; (iv) perform in accordance with the provisions of the MJC2
Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of MJC2 as set forth in the MJC2 Subsidiary
Agreement; (v) take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (vi) not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying
out of the Project.

3.        The Borrower shall, prior to commencement of construction of the Landfill
Facility, provide evidence to the Bank that all conditions of effectiveness to the MJC2
Subsidiary Agreement have been fulfilled and shall provide a legal opinion satisfactory to
the Bank, stating that the MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by each of the respective parties, and is legally binding upon each of the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.

4.       The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Subsidiary Agreements, shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and shall not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate,
repeal or waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any of its provisions without prior approval
of the Bank.
                                           -9-


C.      Service Agreement

1.       The Borrower shall, prior to commencement of construction of the Landfill
Facility, provide evidence to the Bank that the Service Agreement has been executed and
authorized or ratified by the parties to it, in form, substance and a manner satisfactory to
the Bank and that all conditions to the effectiveness of such agreement have been
fulfilled, and shall provide a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, stating that the
Service Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the respective parties,
and is legally binding upon each of the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.

2.      The Borrower shall cause MJC2 and the Municipality of Bar and the
Municipality of Ulcinj to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Service Agreement and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or
waive the Service Agreement without prior approval of the Bank.

3.     The Service Agreement shall contain, inter alia, provisions requiring the
Municipality of Bar and Ulcinj to:

        (a)     maintain tariffs covering: (i) the operation and maintenance cost of the
Landfill Facility; (ii) contingencies and other costs as will be agreed in relevant
contractual arrangements; and (iii) reserves that will cover replacement costs for
equipment and plant;

         (b)     adjust tariffs, as required; and guarantee the delivery to the Landfill
Facility of a minimum amount of waste and payment for services provided.

D.      Anti-Corruption

        The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

E.      Safeguards

1.      The Borrower shall ensure that as part of the development of the design for the
Landfill Facility, and prior to commencement of construction of the Landfill Facility: (i)
the MJC2 EMP is updated with detailed measures to adjust the MJC2 EMP to the design
of the Landfill Facility, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) such
updated and adjusted MJC2 EMP is disclosed prior to the commencement of works under
the Project.

2.       The Borrower shall ensure that the MJC2 and the PEW carry out the Project in
accordance with the MJC2 EMP. The Borrower shall not, and shall ensure that the MJC2
and PEW do not, assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the MJC2 EMP or
any of its provisions without prior approval of the Bank.
                                          - 10 -


Section II.     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.       The Borrower shall ensure that PEW monitors and evaluates the progress of the
Project and prepares Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.

2.      For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Borrower shall maintain, and cause PEW to maintain a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General
Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause PEW to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

3.       The Borrower shall have the Financial Statements, and shall cause PEW to have
its financial statements (Entity Financial Statements), audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements and the Entity Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements and Entity Financial Statements for each
such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than five (5) months after the end of
such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with
the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Proj ect and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
                                          - 11 -


requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and
with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.       International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding procedures.

2.       Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International National Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

                                   Procurement Method

      (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional procedures listed in
          paragraph 3 below

      (b) Shopping


3.     National Competitive Bidding shall be subject to the following additional
procedures:

        (i)     Eligibility: foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no
                preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.

        (ii)    Procedures: “Open procedures" shall be followed in all cases.
                Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated
                national daily newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the
                preparation and submission of bids.

        (iii)   Pre-qualification: when pre-qualification shall be required for large or
                complex works, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised
                in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum
                of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
                qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial
                requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents.
                                   - 12 -


(iv)     Participation by government-owned enterprises: government-owned
         enterprises in Montenegro shall be eligible to participate in bidding only
         if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous,
         operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the
         government. Such enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and
         performance security requirements as other bidders.

(v)      Bidding documents: procuring entities shall use the appropriate
         standard bidding documents for the procurement of works which shall
         contain draft contract and conditions of contract, satisfactory to the Bank.

(vi)     Submission of bids: bidders may, at their option, deliver bids either in
         person, by courier service, or by mail at any time prior to the deadline set
         the submission of bids.

(vii)    Bid opening and bid evaluation: bids shall be opened in public and, if
         two envelopes are submitted for technical and price components, both
         shall be opened simultaneously. The time for the bid opening shall be
         the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or immediately thereafter,
         and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the
         solicitation documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict
         adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding
         documents. Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not
         more than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested
         without the prior approval of the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to
         qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially
         responsive bid. Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest
         evaluated bidder or any other bidder.

(viii)   Price adjustment: civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than
         eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment
         clause.

(ix)     Rejection of bids: all bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited
         without the Bank’s prior concurrence.

(x)      Contracts: all contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped
         by authorized signatories of the purchaser and the supplier, and shall
         contain identical terms and conditions of contract to those included in the
         tender documents.

(xi)     Securities: bid securities shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
         estimated cost of the contract; performance securities shall not exceed
         ten percent (10%). No advance payments shall be made to contractors
         without a suitable advance payment security. The wording of all such
                                         - 13 -


                securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable
                to the Bank.

C.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used.

                                   Procurement Method

  (a)     Least cost Selection

  (b)     Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications

  (c)     Individual Consultants


D.      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.

Section IV.     Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.      General

1.       The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2
below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category.
                                         - 14 -


                                    Amount of the Loan           Percentage of
                                         Allocated             Expenditures to be
           Category                 (expressed in Euro)            financed

(1) Goods, works and                     4,478,750         100%
    consultants’ services
    (including auditing services)
    for the Project

(2) Incremental Operating Costs              10,000        100%

(3) Front-end Fee                            11,250        Amount payable pursuant
                                                           to Section 2.03 of this
                                                           Agreement in accordance
                                                           with Section 2.07 (b) of the
                                                           General Conditions

(4) Premia for Interest Rate                  0            Amount payable pursuant
    Caps and Interest Rate                                 to Section 2.07(c) of this
    Collars                                                Agreement in accordance
                                                           with Section 4.05(c) of the
                                                           General Conditions


      TOTAL AMOUNT                       4,500,000


3.      For the purposes of this Schedule, the term ‘incremental operating costs’ means
reasonable and necessary incremental expenditures, as approved by the Bank, on the
basis of budgets acceptable to the Bank, incurred by PEW with respect of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including office space, office supplies,
vehicle operation, translation, travel, supervision costs and consulting services, but
excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower.

B.      Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.      The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                          - 15 -


                                     SCHEDULE 3

                                 Amortization Schedule


1.       The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.

                                                         Installment Share
         Principal Payment Date                      (Expressed as a Percentage)

              April 1, 2015                                      6.85%
             October 1, 2015                                     7.09%
              April 1, 2016                                      7.34%
             October 1, 2016                                     7.59%
              April 1, 2017                                      7.86%
             October 1, 2017                                     8.14%
              April 1, 2018                                      8.42%
             October 1, 2018                                     8.72%
              April 1, 2019                                      9.02%
             October 1, 2019                                     9.34%
              April 1, 2020                                      9.66%
             October 1, 2020                                     9.97%

2.      If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

         (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

         (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by
a fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment
                                          - 16 -


Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

3.      (a)     Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal.

         (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen
Rate.

5.      If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
                                         - 17 -


                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
        Section III of this Appendix.

2.      “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

3.      “Development Credit Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a
        Montenegro Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas Project between Serbia and
        Montenegro and the International Development Association, dated October 13,
        2003, as amended (Credit Number 3823 YF).

4.      “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

5.      “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
        through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
        Appendix.

6.      “Landfill Facility” means the regional sanitary landfill to be constructed under
        the Project to serve the municipalities of Bar and Ulcinj.

7.      “MJC2” means “Možura” Doo Za Upravljanje Sanitarnom Deponijom – Bar, a
        limited liability company established by the Municipality of Bar and the
        Municipality of Ulcinj and registered in the Central Registry of the Commercial
        Court of Montenegro under number 5-0502603/002 on June 9, 2010, as such
        registration may be extended from time to time, or any successor thereto.

8.      “MJC2 Legislation” means the agreement and the statute signed on October 31,
        2008 between the Municipality of Bar and Ulcinj related to Doo Za Upravljanje
        Sanitarnom Deponijom – “Mozura” Bar, as registered in the Central Registry of
        the Commercial Court of Montenegro under number 5-0502603/002 on June 9,
        2010, as such registration may be extended from time to time.

9.      “MJC2 EMP” means the plan dated April 30, 2010, describing the environmental
        mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be undertaken during the
        implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, as such plan shall be
        updated pursuant to Section I.E.1 of this Agreement by agreement between the
                                       - 18 -


      Borrower and the Bank, and as such plan may be further amended from time to
      time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

10.   “MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the
      Borrower and MJC2, referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this
      Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of
      the Bank, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
      the MJC2 Subsidiary Agreement.

11.   “Original Project” means the Project described in the Development Credit
      Agreement.

12.   “PEW” means Javno Preduzece Za Vodosnabdijevanje, Tretman I Odvodenje
      Otpadnih Voda I Deponovanje Cvrstog Otpada Za Podrucje Crnogorskog
      Primorja Icetinja- Budva, the Borrower’s public enterprise for water supply,
      wastewater drainage and treatment for the area of the Montenegrin Coast,
      established pursuant to the PEW Legislation, last registered with the Commercial
      Court of the Borrower under registration number 80013444, on July 11, 2003, as
      amended on May 4, 2006, or any successor thereto.

13.   “PEW Legislation” means a decision of the Parliament of the Borrower, dated
      December 11, 2007, and published in the Official Gazette No 13/07, dated
      December 18, 2007, last registered with the Commercial Court of the Borrower
      under registration number 80013444, on July 11, 2003, as amended on May 4,
      2006.

14.   “PEW Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the
      Borrower and PEW, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
      as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank,
      and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the PEW
      Subsidiary Agreement.

15.   “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October 2006 and May 2010.

16.   “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated October 15, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

17.   “Project Implementing Entity” means PEW.

18.   “Service Agreement” means the service agreement entered into between MJC2
      and the Municipality of Bar and the Municipality of Ulcinj referred to in Section
                                          - 19 -


        I.C.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the parties’ respective
        obligations in relation to certain technical aspects of carrying out the Project and
        operation of the Landfill Facility.

19.     “Subsidiary Agreement” means the PEW Subsidiary Agreement or the MJC2
        Subsidiary Agreement and “Subsidiary Agreements” refers to both of them
        collectively.

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

        The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:

        “Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
        and Interest

                (a)      If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the
        proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
        (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw
        from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to
        repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of
        such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid
        charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so
        withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the
        remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.”

2.      Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows:

        “Section 7.02. Suspension by the Bank

        ...      (l) Ineligibility. The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower
        (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to
        receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or
        otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project
        financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a: (i)
        determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project
        Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive
        practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the
        Bank or the Association; and/or (ii) a declaration by another financier that the
        Borrower (other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity is
        ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise
        to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in
        whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier
        that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent,
                                          - 20 -


        corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds
        of a financing made by such financier.”

3.      The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
        deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
        alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
        accordingly:

        (a)     The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation
                Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:

                “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
                Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”

        (b)     The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as
                follows:

                “‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution
                Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower
                and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect,
                and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”

Section III.    Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

“… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
       by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other
       individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the
       Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a
       result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or
       entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
       connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures
       (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or
       entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
       ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
       awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
       financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
                                          - 21 -


       participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
       project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
       determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
       financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
       Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
       suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
       sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
       Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
       by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
       coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
       financing made by such financier.”

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
       government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
       government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
       paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
       1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.”

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
       purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
       sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
       adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
       debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
       posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
       stakeholders.”
