Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OS S{3A/P./W
Report No. 6399-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 22, 1987
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ot i in the performance of
their offici4! duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1     =  US$0.0571
Rs 17.50 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan  : July 1-June 30
Commercial Banks         : January 1-December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABL     -  Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited
DFI     -  Development Finance Institution
EDL     -  Export Development Loan
EPB     -  Export Promotion Bureau
FBS     -  Federal Bureau of Statistics
GON     -  Government of the Netherlands
GOP     -  Government of Pakistan
HBL     -  Habib Bank Limited
IDBP    -  Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC I   -  First Industrial Investment Credit Project
IIC II  -  Second Industrial Investment Credit Project
MCB     -  Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP     -  National Bank of Pakistan
NCB     -  Nationalized Commercial Bank
NCTT    -  National Center for Technology Tran4fer
NDFC    -  National Development Finance Corporation
PBC     -  Pakistan Banking Council
PCI     -  Participating Credit Institution
PICIC   -  Pakistan Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation
SBP     -  State Bank of Pakistan
SIC     -  Small Industries Corporation
SID     -  Small Industries Department
SSI     -  Small Scale Industries
SSI I   -  First Small Industries Project
SSI II  -  Second Small Industries Project
SSI III - Third Small Industries Project
UBL     -  United Bank Limited



FoR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................    iii
I*  INTRODUCTION ...............     .................................     1
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK                                                     I 1
A.  Economic Setting *.......................                          1
B.  The Industrial Sector          ...................................  2
C.  Financial Environment  .. ........... ...*.* *......  *******.    3
D.  Small Scale Industries Sector ...........................         5
Policy Environment and Development Strategy..............         5
Characteristics and Performance..........................         6
Growth Subsectors ........ ........................*.*.....       7
Credit Requirements ..................... ................        7
E.  Past SSI Prjcs.............................9
F.  Rationale for Bank Involvemente..........................        10
III* THE PROJECT ..................................       ..               12
A.  Objectives and Scope          ....................................    12
B.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ........................    13
C.  Subloan Component         .......................................    14
SSI Fwinanc:ing                        8ytm...........................14
Participating Credit Institutions .......       ................    15
Monitoring and Coordinating Agency.......................        16
Subproject Eligibility Criteria          .........................    17
Subloan Terms and Conditions          ............................    17
D.  Technical Assistance Components           .........................    18
Technical Assistance for PBC and the PCIs ...... .........    18
Promotion of Export Houses...............................        18
Technology and Productivity Fund.........................    21
Improvement of SSI Sector Statistics ....................    23
IV.  THE LOAN.....................................................    24
A. Terms and Conditions                   .....................      24
B.  Administrative Procedures          ...............................    26
C.                                                                  ofnnig.......* 28
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performne
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be discled without World Dank authorizaton.



-ii-
V.  BEMEFITS AND RISKS  .....       ... ... .e ...  28
A* Benefits .... ........ ......... .......... ..           . .  ....  28
B.  Risks  .............e......                    .. ..           29
VIo RECOMMENDATION8  ........    ....                                    30
This report was prepared by J. Pernia and K. J. Lee-O'Mara (ASPID),
A. H. Qureshi (RMP), P. Carr and F. Murray (Consultants), following an
appraisal mission to Pakistan in March - April 1986. It was updated by
J. Pernia, following a post-appraisal mission in July 1986.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Profile of Subprojects Under Credits 1113-PAK and 1499-PAK
2. The Nationalized Commercial Banks
3. Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
4. Draft Policy and Strategy Statement of the Small Industries
Department of PBC
5. Draft Policy and Strategy Statement for the Technical Assistance
Fund of EPB
6. Draft Policy and Strategy Statement for the Technology and
Productivity Fund
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8. Documents Available in Project File



-iii-
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BCTrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:          Participating credit institutions which include:
Allied Bank of Pakistan Ltd (ABL), Habib Bank Limited
(HBL), Muslim Comercial Bank (MCB), National Bank of
Pakistan (UP), United Bank Limited (UBL), and
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP). The
proposed project would also provide funds for
technical assistance to: the Export Promotion Bureau
(EPB), National Development Finance Corporation
(NDFC), Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC), IDBP and the Federal Bureau of
Statistics (FBS).
Amountt                 US$54 million
Terms:                  The Bank Loan would be lent at the Bank standard
iariable interest rate and would have a repayment
period of 20 years including 5 years of grace.
Co-financing:           The Governmnt of the Netherlands (GMO) would provide
US$12.3 million equivalent (f. 25 million) in grant
aid to the Government of Pakistan (GOP) which would
be used to co-finance the proposed project and be
administered by the Bank.
Re-lending Terms:       The Government would relend the. proceeds of the Bank
Loan to the six participating credit institutions
(PCI) at terms which would provide a spread of 4.751
to the PCIs. The final lending rate to subborrowers
would be 141 p.a. initially and would be reviewed
periodically to ensure that it remains consistent
with market rates for industrial term lending an
positive in real terms. For a spread currently at
1.331, the Government would bear the exchange and
interest rate risks since the ultimate subborrowers
are small scale enterprises, which have relatively
little capacity to judge and hedge against foreign
exchange and interest rate risks. The PCIs would
repay their loans over 12 years, including a grace
period of five years.



-iv-
Project Description:    The Project would support GOP's strategy for S8I
development, focusing on efficient delivery of
financial resources and technology and export
marketing services. It would provide loans to SSI
subprojects in growth subsectors; expand the
capabilities of the PCIs in SSI financing; help
develop an efficient export marketing infrastructure
through the promotion of export houses; improve the
technical performance of industrial enterprises by
providing technical services; and improve the
accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics for future
policy and strategy formulation.
Benefits and Risks:     Under the proposed project, about 1,300 $SI units
would be financed resulting in investments of about
US$160 million and 28,000 new full-time jobs. The
project would also support the development of five
export houses as part of the Government's broader
strategy for export promotion; and about sixty
industrial enterprises would be assisted in
technology updating.
The benefits arising from the project include
expansion of SSI investments in growth subsectors
and increased access to institutional credit by SSI
through the banking system; increased product and
market diversification through the development of
efficient export houses; and improved technical
performance of industrial enterprises through the
provision of effective technical services.
Aside from a possible economic downturn, there is a
risk that the subsidized lending programs, recently
introduced by GOP, could affect the rate of
utilization of the subloan component since the
subloan rate under the project would not be
competitive. However, the Government has advised the
Bank that the size of these subsidized programs will
remain small and thus will have no appreciable effect
on the project. The risks associated with export
houses relate to the proper selection of sponsors who
can make the concept work. Careful screening
procedures by the EPB, the commercial banks and the
Bank would be established to minimize this risk.
There is a risk that the technology fund would not
generate enough demand in the private sector for
technology subprojects. Using the development
finance institutions (DFI) as the implementing
agencies will minimize this risk since they have



developed close contacts with private industry
through their lending programs.
Estimated Costs:
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Subloan Components      116.0         55.0      171.0
Technical Assistance
Components             5.5          3.5        9.0
TOTAL                   121.5         58.5      180.0
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                      5.0         49.0      54.0
CON                       3.0          9.5      12.5
PCI                      42.0           -       42.0
Private Sector           70.5           -       70.5
GOP                       1.0           -         1.0
TOTAL                   121.5         58.5     180.0
Estimated Disbursements:
(USe million)
IBRD FY      88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95
Annual      6.0  12.4  11.8   8.1   6.5   4.9   3.2   1.1
Cumulative  6.0  18.4  30.2  38.3  44.8  49.7  52.9  54.0



PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Small scele industries (88) development continues to be a high
priority of the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and an important component of
its strategy for achieving industrial employmntt exports and output targets.
The strategy continues to rely solely on private investment and activity,
with the Government providing support through financial, technical and
infrastructural services. The Bank has supported GOPs strategy by providing
credit, technical and marketing assistance to 881 and by improving the
institutional arrangements for their delivery through two 8SI projects
(parts. 2.21-2.25). In view of the success of the past SSI projects, GOP
has requested financing for a third 88I project to pursue expansion and
modernization of this sector in line with its potential. This report recom-
mends a Bank loan of US$54 million and discusses a Dutch government grant of
US$12.5 million equivalent (f. 25 million) in support of a US$180 million
project.
1.02    The proposed Third Smell Industries Project (88I III) would continue
to provide credit, technical and marketing assistance to enable small scale
enterprises to expand, modernize and compete in the local and export markets.
The Bank and the Government of the Netherlands (GON) would provide US$50
million and US$7.5 million equivalent, respectively, for on-lending by the
participating credit institutions (PCI) to SS, which is expected to result
in investments of about US$160 million and about 28,000 full-time jobs in
about 1,300 units. Financial assistance of US$4 million and technical assis-
tance of US$1 million would support the development of about five export
houses, as part of a broader strategy for export promotion. Another US$4
million in technical assistance would support technology and productivity
improvements in private industry; improve the collection, processing and
analysis of 88I statistics to increase their reliability and accuracy; and
continue building capability within the PCIs for project financing with
emphasis on staff development and systems improvements in the branches in
pursuit of further operational decentralization.
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economic Setting
2.01    During FY84-86, Pakistan succeeded in maintaining the rapid growth
performance that characterized the Fifth Plan but was les successful in
bringing about the structural transformation called for in the Sixth Plan.
GDP growth averaging 6.9X p.a. in real terms (above the Plan target of 6.52)
was the product of the following sectoral growth ratesS agriculture (3.9%
p.a.), industry (8.32 p.a.) and services (7.4X p.a.). The pattern of growth
was, therefore, impressive but somoehat different than Plan projections which
had called for a more rapid ezpansion in the commodity producing sectors than



-2-
in services. In addition, the diversification of output into minor crops and
into manufactured exports was slow to materialize.
2.02    In the same period, the balance of payments was affected by a number
of factors not foreseen in the Plan, some of which are external to Pakistan
(instability in world cornodity markets, sluggish recovery of world trade,
and declining migrant workers' remittances) and others which are (at least
partly) tnder Pakistan's control (the performance of non-traditional exports,
shortfalls in aid disbursements). Cur ent account deficits have been averag-
ing 3.7X of CUP as against 2.7% in the Plan. With higher deficits and aid
shortfalls, the Government has relied on reserve drawdowns and short-term
borrowing instruments for financing. By the end of FY86, gross official
reserves had fallen by nearly US$1 billion to a level the equivalent of 6
weeks of imports of goods and services; if short-term liabilities (in the
form of foreign currency deposits of non-resident bonds and foreign exchange
bearer shares, totaling US$644 million) are netted out, adjusted reserves are
the equivalent of only 2 weeks of imports. This is obviously an uncomfort-
able position for a country where exports and imports are subject to con-
siderable instability.
2.03      Prospects for continued economic expansion appear reasonable
provided that efforts to diversify the economic base and improve domestic
resource mobilization are accelerated. The gradual improvement in the policy
environment has brought about a welcome revival of private sector activity
and some structural change that has made the economy less dependent on cer-
tain imports (e.g. wheat, petroleum). Nonetheless, the economy remains
structurally weak with agriculture still heavily dependent on a few key crops
and manufacturing dependent upon high levels of protection. The slow growth
of manufacturing exports (especially other than textiles) is a matter of
concern. The increasing concentration of exports, growing debt service, and
uncertain prospects for migrant remittances all underline Pakistan's fragile
balance of payments position. Lack of progress in resource mobilization is
another major concern. To accommodate higher private and public investment
rates without undue pressures on the balance of payments will require a
reversal of deteriorating public savings and continuing improvement in
private savings; the freeing up of returns brought about by Islamization of
the financial system may play an important role in improving returns to
savers, but there are few signs that policies to improve public sector
savings performance are being put in place. Pakistan's prospects are made
more complicated by the signs of an emerging employment problem. Continued
rapid population growth, the return of migrant workers from the Middle East,
and signs of lower employment absorption in key sectors of the economy point
to the prospects for rising unemployment even if high growth rates are
maintained. Developing an appropriate strategy for encouraging the expansion
of productive employment opportunities will be of more critical importance
than it has been over the past decade.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.04    Pakistan has a reasonably diversified industrial base.  Textiles,
which accounted for about 301 of manufacturing value added in the early
1970s, now constitute only 151. Other important sectors include food
processing, engineering goods, cement and fertilizers. Manufactured and



-3-
semi-manufactured goods represented over 701 of total exports, although more
than half are cotton products. Other major exports consist of carpets,
leather products, synthetic textiles and fish products. Since the late
seventies, the Government has assigned a lead role to the private sector in
industrial development, reversing to some extent the nationalizations of the
mid-seventies, opening up areas for private investment, and reducing invest-
ment in public sector enterprises. Private industrial investment grew by an
average of 17.5% p.a. during FY79-FY86. The private sector, which in FY79
accounted for only 27% of manufacturing investment, increased its share to
82% in FY86. However, public enterprises remain important, due to their
dominance in a number of key subsectors, i.e., cement, fertilizers,
chemicals, petroleum, steel, motor vehicle and heavy engineering. The
improved policy environment which has contributed to a resurgence of private
sector confidence has led to growth in output and investment. During
FY79-86, growth of manufacturing value added averaged 9.6X p.a. in real
terms, compared to 3.3X p.a. in the preceding five years. Sectoral perfor-
mance during FY86 -emained strong, but growth elowed to 8.2%; a similar rate
of growth is anticipated for FY87, in line with recent production trends and
investment levels.
2.05    Although improved industrial performance since FY79 has been
noteworthy, sustained growth will depend on continued improvements in the
incentive structure, further relaxation of government controls, increased
availability of infrastructure, and improved performance by public
enterprises.  The industrial sector continues to be promoted in a protected
environment, largely sustained by import substitution policies. Exports are
considered marginal to most production and investment decisions and tend to
fluctuate in response to short-run changes in incentives. Quantitative
restrictions need to be removed and the tariff structure requires modifica-
tion to provide a more uniform level of effective protection and reduce the
import substitution bias. Although industrial controls have been
liberalized, industry is still hampered by government controls on
investments, imports, access to foreign exchange, company formation and
priciug. Infrastructure deficiencies, especially in energy, are a major
cause of project delays and undermine capacity utilization. Public
enterprises affected by price controls operate under cost-plus arrangements
which discourage operational efficiency.
C. Financial Environment
2.06    The Financial Sector.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:*
five nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); seventeen foreign commercial
banks; four specialized scheduled banks; nine development finance institu-
tions (DFIs); several insurance companies; two leasing companies; two stock
exchanges; and a housing finance corporation. The State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank, regulates and supports the banking system within
overall policies set by GOP.  The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) oversees and
coordinates the activities of the NCBs and fulfills many of the functions
previously discharged by their former private shareholders.  The Ministry of
Finance monitors tha operations of the other financial institutions. The
commercial banking sector is the most important part of the financial system,
with total assets as of June 30, 1986 of Rs 337 billion, or about 901 of the
total assets of the system. In turn, the NCBs account for 90% of the banking



-4-
business in the country. NCBs are also important in terms of geographic
coverage# with 7,000 branches throughout the country.
2.07    Two important developments have characterized the financial environ-
ment recently. The first is the diversification of functions by the institz-
tions in the system. The commercial banks provide term financing to agricul-
ture and industry. The development finance institutions complement their
assistance with short-term working capital loans. The investment banks rely
on the commercial banks to back up their underwriting commitmAtnts. Leasing
companies are being established by commercial banks and DFIs. With these
developments, the system has acquired some flexibility, but the general
approach by GOP and the central bank is one of cautious and measured steps.
For example, private banking has not been allowed and only recently has the
Government announced a restricted relaxation of this policy to allow private
investment banks.
2.08    A similar approach has characterized GOP's pursuit of Islamization
of the financial system. Initial but limited steps to abolish "riba", or
interest, from the system were taken in 1981, but it was only from July 1985
that all domestic currency transactions have been based on new financing
modes consistent with Islamic principles. New financing arrangements
include: (i) mark-up, a sale with a profit margin which varies according to
the term; (ii) Term Finance Certificates (TFCs), bonds with a risk premium;
(iii) Musharika, loans designed to meet working capital needs on a profit-
sharing basis according to a pre-agreed formula; (iv) Mcdaraba companies,
investment funds operating in accordance with Islamic tenets; and (v) hire-
purchase and leasing.
2.09    The most important and noticeable effect of Islamization has been a
movement towards the freeing of interest rates and a more market-oriented
approach to the pricing of capital. By allowing financial institutions to
freely negotiate rates of return and mark-ups within a range of 10-20% for
short term financing and setting only a minimum of 10% for term lending, the
imbalance in some short and longer term rates which existed previously has
been corrected. Still, there continue to be special credit programs for
priority sectors with lending rates at below market rates. These programs
which are for small farmers, exports, and locally fabricated and imported
machinery, however, are small and are expected to remain so. As regards
deposits, the outcome is uncertain. With full conversion to Islamization,
returns on deposits in financial institutions will be based entirely on
"profit or loss system" (PLS) principles, which do not guarantee a specific
return. This could lead to the withdrawal of interest-conscious deposit s
from the system; and since GOP savings schemes will continue to operate on
the basis of interest, some funds could be diverted into these schemes. GOP
and SBP are studying the possibility of establishing an insurance or reserve
fund scheme to maintain stability in PLS returns. In any case, Islamization
has added flexibility to the system, effectively freeing most interest rates,
expanding the number of financing options available and providing the private
sector with increased opportunities to raise funds directly from the public
in equity or quasi-equity forms.
2.10    Interest Rate Structure.  Before conversion to Islamization,
Pakistan's interest rate structure was characterized by a crossing of rates.
Since deposit rates rose while lending rates fell with maturity, the interest
rate structure provided a clear incentive for banks to favor short-term



-5-
lending. Under Islamization, with rates of return on TFCs at 14-15X and on
mark ups at 10-202, this imbalance in the interest rate structure has been
partly corrected. Moreover, these rates are substantially positive given the
current inflation rate of about 52. Inflation is expected to remain below
102 so that these lending rates should remain positive. For the industrial
sector, two new lending programs were announced by the Government in June
1986, one for the financing of locally fabricated machinery and the other for
imported machinery. At lending rates of 32 p.a. and 102 p.a. respectively,
these programs appeared to undermine the gains achieved under Islamization
towards a more market-oriented interest rate regime. However, the 3X
program has proved to be small with only Rs 218 million disbursed in the past
year. Unlike the 32 program, which is a refinancing scheme of SBP, the 102
program is to be financed by the NCBs. Since the subsidy is borne by the
NCBh and lending is not mandatory, the VCBs have not lent any funds under
this program. During negotiations, the Government advised the Bank that
these programs will remain small and will have no appreciable effect on the
proposed project.
2.11    Until recently, the nationalized commercial banks had been lending to
8SI for fixed investments under their SBP mandatory targets at 112. The
Government, however, has decided to increase this rate to 14% to make it
consistent with the rate for fixed investment loans for medium and large
industry. Under the proposed project, the interest rate will also be 142.
Moreover, it will be tied to the rate under IIC II tc ensure consistency
between the two credit lines. The annual review and adjustment of interest
rates by GOP and the Bank, required under IIC II, will also determine the
future lending rate for all SSI term loans, taking into account inflationary
trends, current borrowing and lending rates and adequacy of spreads for the
PCIs to cover administrative and risk costs. These reviews would also serve
as a forum for further rationalization of the industrial interest rate
structure.
D. Small Scale Industries Sectcr
Policy Environment and DeveloDment Strategy
2.12    The Government defines small industry units as industrial enterprises
with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) not exceeding Rs 10 million
(US$570,000). Government policies for industrial development allow SSIs to
set up and operate with little regulation, and market signals are the main
determinants of SSI investments and their viability. Except for location
permits in line with zoning regulations, licensing is not required to estab-
lish an SSI unit. GOP's policy requires SSIs to be *.n the private sector.
Subsectors with strong potential, high value added, and limited economies of
scale are promoted, but not reserved, for SSI production. There is a push to
develop S8Is in more remote urban and rural areas, but this objective again
is pursued by promotion and provision of services. Until recently, GOP
policy mandated that credit to SSIs be provided by the NCBs at subsidized
interest rates as a means of promoting them (para 2.11).
2.13    Technical assistance activities in support of 8SI are mainly a
provincial government responsibility, carried out by semi-autonomous provin-
cial agencies known as the Small Industries Corporations (SIC). To a large



-6-
extentp the SICs have focussed their assistance to the sector on providing
physical facilities, developing industrial estates, building and equipping
service centers and establishing training and production centers for
handicrafts. The First and Second SSI Projects supported the SICs in their
programs for the promotion of new viable enterprises and the provision of
extension services to existing firms. Components under the first two SSI
projects encouraged the SICs to increase interaction with the private sector
by involving private sector entrepreneurs in policy-making through management
committees, emphasizing SIC activities which support local entrepreneurs and
providing direct services to the private sector in project preparation,
export promotion and extension services. While some SIC activities, espe-
cially those with a strong focus on direct relationship with local
businessmen, have been quite effective in meeting SSI needs for technical and
marketing support, serious deficiencies still exist in the quality of some
services provided and the effectiveness of the delivery system itself.
Considering the inherent limitations of these public sector organizations in
staffing and funding, alternative channels in the private sector have to be
developed. Under the proposed project, this approach will be tried in the
areas of export marketing and technology transfer (paras. 3.17-3.33).
Characteristics and Performance
2.14    GOP attaches priority to the SSI sector not only because of its
importance in meeting social objectiveq, but also industrial development
objectives. Generally, small firms are less affected by economic variations,
as they have greater flexibility in relation with production schedules and
labor employment. Similarly, small investors are less vulnerable and sensi-
tive to political changes. Moreover, SSIs generate a good portion of their
capital needs from the informal capital markets and require less infrastruc-
tural support than larger firms. These factors help explain why small scale
industries cobtinued to grow during the difficult years of the seventies,
while the production of larger firms declined. In the 1980s, investments in
small firms represent a share of 181 to 27% of total private industrial
investment. Currently, SSIs contribute nearly 4.7% of GDP, 27% of industrial
value added and 30% of manufactured exports and employ about two million
workers in over 100,000 establishments. The majority of SSIs are located in
Punjab and Sind provinces, with a smaller proportion in NWFP and Baluchistan,
reflecting population concentrations, raw material sources, availability of
infrastructure, access to markets and local entrepreneurship. Traditionally,
88Is have specialized in processing local raw materials, such as cotton and
food processing and construction materials. Other key activities are
focussed on exports that add value to imported raw materials, including
manufacturing of carpets, ready-made garments, iy;trts goods, cutlery and
surgical instruments.
2.15    !SIs in Pakistan are labor intensive and, generally, efficient users
of capital; investment cost per job is about US$1,800; the average capital-
output ratio of SSIs is about 0.8. SSIs also prove to be efficient producers
of goods, especially for the rural markets, where quality requirements are
less stringent. For example, small powerloom units were found to produce
grey cotton fabrics at a third of the production cost of the mill sector;
however, due to quality differences, the powerloom fabric fetched only 80%
of the price of the mill-cloth. Compared to some East Asian developing
countries, SSls in Pakistan are more labor intensive and more efficient users
of capital, 'but have lower labor productivity.



Growth Subsectors
2.16    Agro-industries, selected textile products and light engineering are
expected to continue being growth areas in the medium term. In the recent
past, agro-industries accounted for about 30X of SSI investments. The impor-
tance of this subsector is likely to increase, as sustained expansion in farm
output generates larger agricultural surpluses for processing. Substantial
capacity expansion is expected in rice and flour milling, oil extraction and
ice and cold storage for the fishing, poultry and cash crop sectors. Also,
project opportunities in the handling, storage and processing of fruits and
vegetables for domestic and export markets could be numerous. Growth in the
powerloom sector, which accounted for about 15% of past SSI investments, is
projected to continue in response to expanding domestic demand for fabrics,
particularly in catering to rural requirements. Investments in garment
manufacturing for exports based on both local cotton and imported blend
fabrics are expected to increase substantially. In light engineering, the
investment level of about 20% will probably continue, concentrating in
engineering workshops, in response to maintenance requirement of agricultural
equipment, faster urbanization and industrialization.
2.17    In the past, SSI production for exports concentrated on traditional
products such as cotton yarn, cotton cloth, carpets. sports goods and
surgical instruments which were exported mainly to Europe. More recently,
however, there has been increasing product and market diversification, demon-
strated by exports of leather products, garments, textile made-ups, and
processed marine products, fruits and vegetables to never markets including
North America. The outlook for further growth appears promising, provided
that appropriate policy and institutional support are developed. A central
policy problem refers to the present system where only direct exporters are
entitled to export incentives. This has caused fragmentation in the export
sector with very small companies trying to export directly despite lack of
expertise. This problem is being addressed under the Export Development Loan
and will be followed-up under this project (para 3.20). A related institu-
tional problem is the lack of marketing institutions with strong marketing
skills which can assist small producers in export market development. These
aspects will be addressed in the proposed project (paras. 3.17-3.26).
Credit Requirements
2.18    Past Investments in SSI.  Investments in SSI grew in current terms
from Rs 1069 million in FY81 to Rs 1746 million in FY86 at an average annual
rate of 10.41. While this was lower than the projected growth rate of 12X
p.a., it compares favorably with growth in total investments in large
industry which averaged 8.2% p.a. in the same period. Private investments in
large industry, however, continued its high growth pattern since the late
1970s, averaging 24.1X p.a. and reflecting GOP's policy of promoting private
investments and improving the investment climate (para. 2.04):



-8-
Table 2.17:  INDUSTRIAL INVESTENTS
(FY81-86)
(in current Rs million) /a
8S;      Private LSI lb      Public LSI     Total LSI
1981       1,069        3,291              4,836          8,127
1982       1,221        3,252              4,684          7,936
1983       1,344        4,068              5,143          9,211
1984       1,472        5,655              5,700          11,355
1985       1,595        7,469              3,871          11,340
1986       1,746        9,387              2,429          11,816
/a Current values are used here to relate to credit requirements.
7T Large scale industry.
2.19    Past 88I Loans.  SSI loans by the nationalized commercial banks grew
faster than 8SI investments in the same period, from Rs 808 million in FY81
to Rs 2,430 million in FY86, averaging about 27.6X p.a. Since NCB loans were
both for working capital (701) and fixed investments (30X), this is partly
explained by faster growth in working capital loans reflecting growth in SSI
output averaging 15.2Z p.a. in current terms in the same period. However,
the major reason for this growth appears to be greater willingness by the
NCBs to lend to $SI in view of GOP and Bank support (paras. 3.05-3.08). NCB
lending operations under 88I II have also grown, with loan commitments
averaging about US$3 million per month. The pipeline of loan applications is
strong and, as of December 1986, consisted of about 285 applications amount-
ing to about US$20 million.
2.20    Credit Requirements.  GOP projects fixed investments in SSI to con-
tinue growing at 121 p.a in current terms. Assuming a more conservative
growth rate of 101 p.a., and using the past financing pattern for S5I
investments, the demand for institutional credit by 8SI for PY88-90 would be
about Rs 2,800 million. On this basis, if the Bank were to finance about a
third of credit demand for fixed investments, which is roughly equivalent to
the foreign costs of SSI investments, the requirement for Bank funds could be
about US$56 million:
Table 2.20: CREDIT DEKNAND FOR FY88 TO FY90
Fixed        Institutional        Bank
Investments      Credit (401)      Share (351)
(Rs million)
FY88                    2,100           840               295
FY89                   2,300            920               320
FY90                   2,600          1,040               365
TOTAL                   7,000         2,800               980 /a
/a US$56 million.



E. Past SSI Projects
2.21    The First Small Industries Project (Cr. 1113-PAK) of US$30 million
was signed in April 1981. In addition to providing funds for term lending,
important objectives of the project were to develop the capabilities of the
Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB) in SSI financing and to focus the provin-
cial Small Industries Corporations (SIC) on promotional and technical serv-
ices for 8SI. After a slow start, due mainly to the realignment of functions
among institutions, implementation quickly accelerated, with the credit fully
disbursed on schedule on December 31, 1985. The subloan component financed
654 subprojects, resulting in investments of about US$80 million. Subsector
distribution of subprojects financed was basically as expected during
appraisal, with concentration in agro-industries (39Z), light-engineering
(172) and textiles (15X). Average subloan size was about US$42,000, much
lower than the maximum allowable amount of US$200,000, indicating that ade-
quate credit access was maintained for smaller units. The subprojects
financed generated about 12,800 jobs at a cost per job of about US$6,000.
Annual incremental value added is estimated to be about US$50 million. Based
on a sample of subprojects visited, lending decisions made under the credit
appeared sound, with careful selection of sponsors and good subproject
appraisal. Ex-post financial rates of return of fully operational sub-
projects ranged between 18X and 45X.
2.22    SSI I had a substantial impact on the NCBs' organization and staffing
for SSI lending. At the headquarters of each bank, a Small Industries
Department (SID) was created to undertake project appraisal. Training on SSI
lending procedures was imparted to SID officers as well as over 400 branch
officers. Although appraisal initially was centralized at the banks'
headquarters, the branches were made responsible for receiving and screening
applications, loan disbursement and administration and project supervision.
Emphasis on project financing, in addition to creditworthiness analysis,
sharpened the NCBs' project selection capabilities and improved their systems
and procedures. Given matching maturity funds under the credit, the PCIs
increased their portfolio of SSI loans by blending their own short-term
funds.
2.23    Implementation of the technical assistance (TA) components of sSI I
were also completed on schedule. The impact of the TA components has been
generally positive, resulting in the establishment of two service centers
which provide focussed technical training and services to a pre-identified
clientele. The project preparation fund was effective in assisting over 600
subloan applicants prepare their loan applications and feasibility reports
for submission to the NCBs. Subsector studies and area development studies
have been prepared and are being utilized to improve project promotion and
selection. The export promotion component succeeded in introducing several
Pakistani exporters and products to the U.S. market. A completion report on
this project was issued in October 1986.
2.24    Second 8SI Project.  The Second 8SI Project (Credit 1499-PAK) of
US$50 millions, which was signed in July 1984, aimed at a continued build-up
of the capabilities of the NCBs in project financing and the provision of
technical and marketing services. As of December 31, 1986, the subloan
component of SSI II was already fully committed and about 451 disbursed.
Subloans for 1,300 subprojects had been approved. Moreover, there were about



-10-
285 subloan applications amounting to US$20 million at different stages of
processing by the NCBs. Based on the current rate of disbursement, it is
expected that disbursement of the Credit would be completed by June 1988,
two years ahead of the original closing date. Subsector distribution of
subprojests was about the same as that under SSI I, with agro-industries,
engineering and textiles taking about two-thirds of the Credit. Average
subloan size was about US$52,000, higher than that under SSI I due to a
change in SSI definition from Rs 3 million to Rs 5 million. Reflecting
population concentrations, access to raw materials and markots and
availability of infrastructure and skilled labor, most of the subprojects
financed are located in Punjab (622) and Sind (31%) provinces, with NWFP (5%)
and Baluchistan (21) getting a share similar to that under SSI I. 1/
2.25    Under 8SI II, the PCIs have devoted more staff resources to SSI
financing, making it an important product line among their numerous banking
activities. Subproject appraisal was decentralized to the regional offices
as more staff were trained to undertake this function. Moreover, training on
project supervision and end-use for branch personnel was emphasized as sub-
projects under SSI I started to be implemented and subloan amortizations to
fall due. After an initial problem, the collection performance of the NCBs
improved substantially, reaching an average collection ratio of 821 as of
June 1986. This was the result of an intensive collection drive which
involved supervision visits to subprojects and the establishment of more
effective systems and procedures for collection including timely billing of
clients, more organized and frequent follow-up on defaulting clients, and the
use of authority to automatically offset loan overdues with credit balances
in borrowers accounts. Implementation of the various TA components has been
slower than the subloan component due to difficulties in finding suitable
consultants and counterpart staff; their completion, however, is expected to
be within the original schedule.
F. Rationale for Bank !nvolvement
2.26    Bank's Industrial Lending Strategy.  In the past, the Bank's lending
for the industrial sector in Pakistan was done mainly through the three DFIs,
comprising 14 loans and credits totaling US$324 million, of which 11 loans
and credits amounting to US$244 million were made to the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC) for medium and large private
industrial projects, two amounting to US$a0 million to the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for small and medium private sector
manufacturing projects and a US$30 million line of credit to the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) for public manufacturing enterprises.
The Bank's direct industrial lending was mainly for public sector enterprises
amounting to about US$430 million and consisting of industrial imports,
fertilizer loans, refinery, engineering and industrial estates.
2.27    Starting with the first SSI project in 1981, the institutional scope
of industrial credit projects was broadened to incorporate term lending by
1/ Annex I provides details of the subprojects financed under the First
and Second 9SI Credits.



-11-
the five nationalized commercial banks. Moreover, to complement financial
assistance, project components were developed to address technical and
marketing problems blocking industrial growth and diversification.  This
broadening of approach was pursued further under the First Industrial
Investment Credit Project (IIC I, Credit 1439-PAK) by involving the three
DFIs and the leading NCB in lending to medium and large industries and by
initiating discussions on broader financial and industrial sector policy
issues. These discussions were reinforced in the context of the First
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I, Loan 2166-PAK) which dealt with the
industrial sector and focused on reform of the industrial incentive system
and efficiency of public manufacturing enterprises. Under the Second
Industrial Investment Credit Project (IIC II, Loan 2648-PAK), the ongoing
dialogue on financial sector issues is being further pursued to include
capital market development. The Export Development Loan (EDL, Loan 2701-PAK)
deals with key export policies and restructuring of export procedures and
administration of export promotion.
2.28    For the future, the Bank's industrial lending strategy would continue
to be pursued with three basic instruments: (a) industrial sector and export
development loans focusing on reforms in industrial regulations, protection
and export administration, broadening the policy dialogue initiated by SAL I
and the EDL; (b) industrial investment credits with multiple institutional
arrangements and incorporating measures to reform financial sector policies,
strengthen financial institutions and develop financial markets; and
(c) subsector projects in major manufacturing groups (e.g. SSIt engineering,
textiles, cement, agro-industry) providing financing of priority investment
projects including restructuring, technical and marketing services and
subsector-specific policy adjustments.
2.29    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  While the SSI sector plays an impor-
tant role in meeting GOP's social and industrial development objectives,
inadequate access to investment funds, technology and markets continue to
constrain its growth. The informal financial market continucs to p:'ovide
most of SSI financing needs at very high interest rates constraining invest-
ments and unduly increasing risks of failure. The only other significant
source of investment funds is the NCBs. Yet the NCBs are constrained from
expanding their term lending to SSI due to lack of long term resources and
the higher costs and risk associated with SSI lending. Moreover, until
recently, the lending rate for loans for fixed investments for SSI (11i) was
lower than that for medium and large industry (14Z). The formal financial
markets are also not able to generate the appropriate funds; the capital
market in Pakistan relatively underdeveloped and SSI debt instruments would
be particularly difficult to trade in the market due to risk perceptions and
traditional ownership structures. The recent increase in the interest rate
for $SI term loans from 11% to 142 will help encourage the NCBs to expand
their lending to 98I. Nevertheless, as in other countries, special efforts
would continue to be needed to improve SSI's access to investment funds.
There is a continuing need for the Bank to assist GOP in providing long-term
funds which the NCBs can blend with their short-term resources to lend to
SSI. However, the need for Bank assistance will decline as the NCBs, with
GOP support, become more and more independent in mobilizing and allocating
funds for 8SI.
2.30   This decliniing role is reflected in the steady reduction in the share
of IDA/Ban'; financing under the 9SI projects. Under 881 Il IDA financing



-12-
covered 801 of subloans, with the PCIs providing 20S from their own
resources. Under sSI II, the IDA share was reduced to 701, with the PCIs
providing 301. Under the proposed project, the co-financing ratio between
the lank and the PCIs would be 60-40. Since subproject sponsors typically
contribute about 401 of subproject costs in terms of equity, the Bank's share
in subproject financing will decline from 501 in S81 I and 40% in SSI II to
about 351 under the proposed project.
2.31    In the area of technical and marketing services for SSI, the present
government channels have not been very effective in the past in improving
S8I's access to technology and markets. The lank's role is to assist in
making them more effective through training and advisory services in areas
where they can be effective, and in developing other channels in the private
sector in areas where the private sector has comparative advantage.
III. TE8 PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
3.01    The Third 881 Project would continue to support GOP's strategy for
8SI development, focusing on the efficient delivery of financial resources
and technology and export marketing services. Specifically, the objectives
of the Project are to:
(a)  encourage the banks to increase lending to SSI by, among others,
keeping the SSI lending rate aligned with the overall interest rate
structure, consistent with other industrial lending rates and
reflective of general market rates;
(b) provide finance to SSI subprojects in growth subsectors;
(c) strengthen the financial institutions involved in SSI lending through
technical assistance, training and improvement of operating systems
and procedures;
(d) develop a strong export marketing infrastructure through the
promotion of export houses;
(e) improve efficiency of industrial units through a program of
technology transfer; and
(f) improve the accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics for policy
and development strategy formulation.
3.02    The geographic scope of the Third 99I Project would continue to be
nationwide. However, stronger promotional efforts would be placed on poten-
tial growth areas in Baluchistan and North West Frontier Province to increase
their shore in project lending. Increased decentralization of operational
responsibility through staff training and procedural streamlining are
expected to broaden the geographical distribution of SSI lending. Any
manufacturing or industrial service activity which falls within the current
SSI definition, meets eligibility criteria and is financially and economi-



-13-
cally viable would be eligible for financing. Based on analyses of 881
suboector potential undertaken by consultants under 8S1 I, a more subsector-
oriented strategy would be used to strengthen the project selection process
and accelerate the development of growth subsectors.
3.03    To meet the above objectives, the proposed project would have the
following components:
(a) subloans for fixed investments and permanent working capital for S8I
subprojects (US$57.5 million);
(b) technical assistance for the financial institutions to train staff
and improve operating systems and procedures with emphasis on their
branch network (US$2 million);
(c) technical and financial assistance for the establishment of export
houses (US$5 million);
(d) a technology transfer program to promote technology and productivity
improvements of industrial enterprises (US$1.5 million)$ and
(e) technical assistance to the Federal Bureau of Statistics to improve
SSI data collection, processing and analysis (US$0.5 million'.
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.04    The costs of the proposed project are estimated to total about US$180
million, of which the Bank would finance US$54 million, or about 301. Bank
financing would be used only for the subloan component, both for M81 sub-
projects and the export houses. Subloans would finance 601 of subproject
costs, on average; sponsors would contribute about 40Z of subproject costs.
Bank financing would cover 601 of subloan amounts while the PCIs would
provide the other 401. The Government of the Netherlands (CON) would add
grant funds amounting to US$7.5 million equivalent for subloans. For the
technical assistance components, grant funds from CO amounting to US$5
million equivalent would cover direct costs; GOP, through budgetary alloca-
tions of the implementing agencies, would cover all indirect local
administrative and staff costs estimated at about US$1.0 million. The
components, cost estimates and financing sources are sumarized below 1/:
1/ Detailed cost estimates can be found in Annex 3.



-14-
(USs million)
Private
Bank   CON    PCI    Sector   GOP   Total
A. Subloan Components
1.  SSI Subloans                   50.0   7.5    39.0    65.0       -    161.5
2.  Subloans for Export Houses      4.0      -     2.5     3.0      -      9.5
Subtotal                    54.0   ?.5    41.5    68.0      -    171.0
B. Technical Assistance Components /a
1.  Training and Consultancy          -      2.0    0.5      -       -      2.5
Services for PCIs and PB'S      -
2.  Promotion of Export Houses        -      1.0     -       1.0    0.5     2.5
3.  Technology Transfer               -      1.5     -       1.5     -      3.0
4.  SSI Statistics                    -      0.5     -        -     0.5     1.0
Subtotal                      -     5.0    0.5      2.5    1.0      9.0
GRAND TOTAL /b                          54.0   12.5   42.0    70.5    1.0   180.0
=sz  =5            ===     =z= P_
la Including contingencies.
7T Including taxes
C. Subloan Component
SSI Financing System
3.05    With the introduction of the S8I lending program under the First SSI
Project, GOP abolished the special credit schemes jointly administered by the
provincial Small Industries Corporations and the NCBs which proved to be
ineffective. These schemes were not only small and fragmented due to the
cumbersome institutional arrangements, but also resulted in overlapping
responsibilities, institutional frictions, delays in loan processing and
finally, poor loan recovery performance.  Moreover, concerns with lending
drew the SICs away from the other important functions of SSI promotion and
extension services. SSI I succeeded in rationalizing institutional roles by
assigning the lending function completely to the commercial banks and
reorienting the SICs toward technical assistance.
3.06    Currently, the NCBs have sole responsibility for the SSI lending
system. To ensure S8I's access to credit, annual targets for loans to the
sector, expressed as net increments to the amount of outstanding SSI loans,
are set by the State Bank of Pakistan based on GOP's Annual Development Plan
projections for SSI investments and value-added growth. These are then
divided among the five banks on the basis of deposit size. Achievement of
target levels is monitored monthly; the targets themselves are revised during
the year in reaction to actual credit demand from SSI for investment and
working capital.  Since these targets have been quite conservative in rela-
tion to S81 needs, contributing about 30Z of SSI requirements, they have not



-15-
resulted in undue allocation to SSI. On the other hand, they do not repre-
sent a constraint since they can be exceeded, as they have been in recent
years. However, due to lack of long term funds and, until recentlyt the
lower lending rate for SSI term loans, the NCBs preferred to lend for working
capital, which was at a higher rate, and were not too eager to go beyond the
minimum required. Since IDA funds were made available in FY82 with attrac-
tive spreads, SSI loans by the commercial banks have increased substantially,
meeting about 40% of SSI investment requirements, up from about 30% in prior
years. Moreover, with the availability of long term funds from IDA, fixed
investment loans have increased.
3.07    The SSI sector, however, still draws most of its financing from the
informal credit markets, financing its needs from these sources at very high
interest rates. This has constrained investments in the SSI sector and
increased risks of failure. While the commercial banks with GOP and IDA
support have expanded their exposure to SSI from 30% to 40% of investment
requirements since FY82, further expansion is constrained by lack of matching
maturity funds and, in the past, by the lending rate of 11 p.a., which is
lower than the lending rates for large industrial term loans and commercial
loans. The Government has decided to raise the interest rate for SSI from
11% to 14% p.a. in line with the current interest rate structure, and the
project, in support of this policy reform, would provide additional long term
funds to be blended with the funds of the NCBs.
3.08    SSI III would continue building within the NCBs their capabilities
for SSI project financing by: improving subproject selection through better
project appraisal skills; improving systems and procedures to shorten loan
processing time; strengthening credit discipline to improve loan recovery;
and expanding training and advisory services to reach more branches as
decentralization is increased.
Participating Credit Institutions (PCI) 1/
3.09   The five nationalized commercial banks would continue to be the credit
institutions responsible for appraisal, supervision and collection of sub-
loans under the proposed project. In addition, IDBP, which is relinquishing
its role as the monitoring agency, would become a participating credit
institution (para. 3.12). In order to encourage the PCIs to become more
independent in SSI financing, they would be required to increase their co-
financing of subloans from the current 30% to 40Z of subloans and would
continue to bear full credit risks of all subloans regardless of source. The
implementation of the first two SSI Projects by the PCIs, with the assistance
of IDBP and PBC, has demonstrated their capability for selection of suitable
project sponsors, and for appraising and supervising SSI subprojects. Thus,
under the proposed project, all PCIs will be given full delegated authority
on subloan sanctioning with ex-post review by PBC and the Bank on a sampling
basis. Refinance of subloans found defective would not be authorized by the
Bank. The staffing levels of the PCIs at their headquarters are
satisfactory. However, under the proposed project, more attention would be
given to training and increasing staff at the circle, zonal and branch levels
as further decentralization of lending authority is undertaken. The proposed
1/ A detailed discussion on the NCBs is attached as Annex 2.



-16-
project would provide technical assistance to the PCIs through PBC to upgrade
staffing and iwprove systems and procedures, especially outside of head-
quarters (para. 3.16).
3.10    Conditions for Participation.  The basic eligibility requirement for
participation in the proposed project by a PCI is that it continues to meet
the requirements and standards of SBP and PBC in the case of an NCB, and
those of the Ministry of Finance in the case of IDBP. These minimum require-
ments refer principally to meeting statutory reserve requirements and under-
going regular inspection and examination of accounts by responsible
authorities. Over and above these minimum requirements, the following par-
ticipation conditions have to be met by a PCI: (a) maintenance of adequate
staffing levels with officers qualified to handle SSI term financing at
headquarters and the branches; (b) adoption by its Board and issue of a
circular spelling out the policies, procedures and strategy for implementa-
tion of the proposed project; and (c) maintenance of collection and portfolio
infection levels acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11).
3.11    Collection and Portfolio Infection Criteria.  To be eligible to
participate under the proposed project, an MCB would be required to maintain
a minimum collection level, defined as follows: the cumulative cash collec-
tions under all the 8SI and IIC projects of a PCI should be, at least, 752 of
cumulative amounts due. Moreover, a minimum cumulative collection ratio of
852 on all foreign currency term loans should be maintained. Finally, the
infection of the portfolio by arrears should not exceed a 152 level. In the
case of IDBP? the minim collection and maximum portfolio infection targets
would be those required for participation under IIC II. These have been set
annually up to FY90 in consultation with WMi' and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), as part of the ongoing portfolio upgrading of IDBP; achievement of
targets is reviewed semi-aDnually by GOP, ADB and the Bank. Subloan
authorizations under the project would be suspended until a PCI shall have
taken concrete steps to address its collection and arrears problem, satisfac-
tory to the Bank. These thresholds would be monitored semi-annually. As of
June 1986, all the VCRs have met the collection and portfolio infection
criteria. IDBP also achieved its collection targets for FY86.
Monitoring and Coordinating Agency
3.12    PBC would be the sole apex agency for the proposed project and IDBP,
rather than serving as the apex unit as it did under S8I I & II, would become
a full participating credit institution. After five years of experience in
SSI project financing under the first and second projects, the PCIs, with the
assistance of IDBP, have developed sufficient capability for project
appraisal and supervision. The role of the apex agency, therefore, will
change from that of project review to that of monitoring and coordination and
policy guidance. IDBP's expertise in project work would be more useful in
direct project lending as a PCI, while the functions of coordination and
monitoring are more germaine to PBC's role. PBC has already established an
SS! department under the direction of a member of the board for this purpose.
3.13    PBC's draft SBI Policy and Strategy Statement was discussed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 6.02 d). This statement specifies PBC's
objectives, functions, organization and staffing, work program and reporting
requirements under the proposed project (Annex 4). During negotiations,



-'17-
agreement was reached on the appropriate staffing level for the Small
Industries Department of PBC (para. 6.01 f).
Subprojgct Eligibility Criteria
3.14    As in the previous 8SI Projects, an eligible enterprise would be
defined as a small enterprise which is privately-owned, and is engaged or
intends to engage in manufacturing, repair, processing, industrial services,
or agro-processing. In view of urgent need and lack of appropriate
financing, privatel-owned hospitals and clinics would become eligible,
subject to a maximua li_it of 10X of the total loan amount.  Each PCI would
have to submit its first hospital/clinic subproject for Bank review or
approval before it is given full delegated authority in subloan approvals.
An eligible subproject would involve the establishment, expansion and/or
balancing, modernization and replacement (BER) proposals of an eligible
enterprise which meet the following criteria:
(a) the fixed assets of the enterprise (excluding land and buildings)
valued at the original cost should not exceed Rs 10 million before
the granting of the subloan; this is the current SSI definition;
(b) the incremental fixed cost per job should not normally exceed
Rs 200,000 to encourage labor-intensive technologies;
(c) working capital financing would be allowed only as part of a fixed
investment subloan and for permanent working capital needs since
seasonal working capital financing it available from the NCBs;
(d) a minimum of 301 of subproject costs should be provided by the
sponsor in the form of equity to encourage sound capital structuring.
For small subprojects with subloans below Rs 3 million (US$170,000), the PCTQ
would perform financial analysis to determine financial viability and use
project profiles, prepared under 58I I, to assess economic merit. For sub-
projects with subloans of Rs 3 million and above, appraisal reports would
be more detailed and include a DRC calculation.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
3.15    Sublending terms and conditions would be similar to those under 88I
II, but adjusted to reflect changed conditions and facilitate effective
implementation:
(a) the maximum subloan allowed would be Rs 10 million (US$570,000) to
spread the funds among many subborrowers and to avoid an overlap with
IIC II which allows for a minimum subloan size of US$500,000;
(b)  the proportion of subloan amounts financed by the PCIs would be
increased to 401, to spread foreign exchange funds to more sub-
projects and encourage local resource mobilization;
(c) subloans may be applied to factory buildings but only up to a maximum
of 251 of a subloan to discourage over-investment in buildings; ank
funds may not be used to finance purchase of land;



-18-
(d)  subloan maturities would be at least three years and up to a maximum
of ten years with a grace period of up to two years;
(e)  the lending rate would be 14Z p.a. initially which is consistent with
the lending rate under IIC-Il (para 2.11); and
(f)  subloan commitments which are not at least partially drawn down
within twelve months from comuitment would be automatically cancelled
to facilitate project completion.
D. Technical Assistance Components
Technical Assistance for PBC and the PCIs
3.16    Under past SSI and IIC projects, the Bank has provided funds to PBC
and the PCIs to assist them in building capability for project financing
through staff training and systems improvement and in developing a healthy
project pipeline through subsector analysis and area potential studies.
Under the proposed project, US$2.0 million would be provided to extend the
technical assistance to the PCI regional offices and branches as further
decentralization of operations is pursued. Through PBC, the PCIs have sub-
mitted their detailed training and research requirements. The proposed
training consists of a basic program for staff new to project financing, an
advanced program for more senior staff and overseas training for key manage-
ment personnel. The research proposal extends subsector and area potential
studies beyond those completed under past projects, including a study on the
impact of the past S8I projects and on a credit clearing system. These
studies would require about 50 person months of foreign consulting and 100
person months of local consulting. During negotiations these proposals,
including terms of reference, were discussed and agreed upon (para. 6.01 e).
Promotion of Export Houses
3.17    Background.  Pakistan's export sector is highly fragmented with
thousands of small exporting companies and a high concentration on a few
product areas. This situation has resulted in lack of scale economies in
export marketing, poor marketing practices and skills and inadequate commit-
ment to long-term product and market development. In world markets,
Pakistan's exports have a poor reputation reflecting inconsistency in
quality, delivery and standardization and resulting in low price realization.
The successful experience of East Asian countries in developing export houses
suggests that a similar strategy, adapted to Pakistani conditions, can serve
as a catalyst in rationalizing and generally upgrading the export sector. 1/
1/ In reference to the Korean model, for example, significant differences
in the current export environment of both countries are noteworthy:
Ci) Korea exports a far greater range of products through a far fewer
number of well organized trading companies; (ii) there is a high degree
of interaction between public and private sectors for export promotion,
and between large and small firms through supply and subcontracting
arrangements; and (iii) the Korean private sector is supported by an
effective and extensive overseas representation bv the anva"mnant



-19-
Pakistan's export performance can improve if organizations are developed
which can take a long-term view and apply better management and marketing
skills to export trade. Export houses play this role by exploiting economies
of scale in overseas marketing by operating on a scale and with resources
otherwise unavailable to small exporters.
3.18    In 1981, GOP promoted the concept of export houses and issued the
Export House Order of 1981. Under this program certain facilities were
provided to export houses, including (i) import entitlement, (ii) advance
RMR (Raw Material Replenishment) license, (iii) foreign exchange allowance
for market research, product adaptation and development, and (iv) a permit
to set up display centers abroad with necessary foreign exchange allowance.
Twenty-six exporters, engaged mainly in cotton textii e exports, registered
tiiemselves under the Export House Order. By 1983, despite fairly rapid
industrial growth and the provision of special incentives, only eleven firms
recorded export earnings of over Rs 10 million; most of their exports con-
tinued to concentrate on textile products and very little linkage with sup-
pliers and subcontractors was developed. The main reasons for lower than
expected results appear to be three-fold. First, export incentives are
available only to direct exporters. Since these are quite significart, as
high as about 22% of FOB value, for example, in the case of garment exports,
manufacturers try to export directly, despite lack of export marketing
expertise, to avail cf export incentives. This is the major cause of the
fragmentation in the export sector. Second, the selection of export houses
for registration was quite loose since the incentives to be provided were
modest. Thus, of the 26 houses registered many were small operations, with
little management and marketing expertise and commitment to long-term export
development. Finally, the incentives were quite modest. What the export
houses require most is appropriate financial and technical assistance in
developing their foreign marketing operations since government trade repre-
sentation overseas is weak.
3.19    Objectives.  The objective is to increase the volume, the diversity,
the destinations and the profitability of Pakistan's manufactured exports by
promoting export houses which can apply skills and resources to export
marketing with a long-term commitment. A good expor'. house would serve as a
vehicle for consolidating suppliers, improving market reputation through
quality control and consistent performance and promoting product and market
diversification. Under the Export Development Loan, the Bank is addressing
policy issues related to the export incentive system and providing assistance
in improving the administration of the government export program. The
proposed TA component would complement these initiatives on the policy and
administrative fronts by developing the marketing infrastructure. While
export houses may not be the only answer to the export development problem,
they are eepecially relevant to Pakistan's situation which is characterized
by many small manufacturers with limited financing, difficulty in accessing
the necessary imported inputs, lack of quality control and export marketing
expertise and inadequate marketing support overseas.
3.20    Necessary Policy and Institutional Adjustments.  The establishment of
a climate under which an export house can flourihbegins with a government
commitment to the development of the concept and the provision of assistance
and incentives to enable a company to operate efficiently on the supply side
and profitably in the market place. A major factor contributing to export
development is the government's commitment to reform in key policy -areas such



-20-
as exchange rate policies, movement towards a free trade regime, and the
development of an incentive system providing appropriate support for export
development. Policy reforms are being addressed under the Export Development
Loan (EDL). For the proposed project, an immediate change in policy regard-
ing export suppliers is needed to make export houses viable. Export incen-
tives available to final exporters should be made available to suppliers to
the export houses selected under the project. Unless this change is made,
any unit, regardless of size, would want to continue exporting directly to
avail itself of export incentives. This policy change is provided for in a
dated covenant of the EDL. It would also be a condition of disbursement for
this component (para. 6.04 a).
3.21    To cultivate more interaction between public and private sectors in
export promotion activities, the proposed project would assign specific roles
to the Federal Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), the Federation of Pakistan
Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI), and the banking sector: the EPB
would be responsible for the administration of the technical assistance fund,
and would participate in the selection of eligible export houses and monitor
their performance; the FPCCI would act as a liaison between the Government
and the private sector, promote the export house concept, and participate in
the selection and monitoring of export houses; participate in marketing
activities and disseminate market information; and the NCB's would be
responsible for appraising, supervising, disbursing and collecting the sub-
loans for the export houses and providing export finance under the Export
Refinance Scheme.
3.22    Organization of Export Houses.  An export house would be an existing
company, trading in either a wide variety of products or a particular product
group, provided they are non-traditional. The basic principles guiding its
operation would be based on professional management of the marketing and
selling functions and profitable operation. An export house could typically
commence operations as the overseas marketing wing of an existing
manufacturer-cum-exporter. The corporate objective of the export house is to
extend markets and products at a level of profitability to ensure its own
development and the development of its suppliers which, in this case, are
expected to be mainly small- and medium-size producers.
3.23    The operational strategy would initially focus on the development of
one market area. The model recommended is based on the operation of a sub-
sidiary marketing company located in that market and managed by a profes-
sional marketing manager with extensive knowledge of, and contacts in, the
market place. The manager's main function would involve the setting up and
management of a commission-only sales force. His responsibilities would
include calling on key accounts, monitoring of market development, assisting
in new product development, liaison with the head office in Pakistan, and
overseeing day-to-day management functions. The staff would include an
assistant manager on posting from the Pakistan head office, who would receive
on-the-job training in foreign marketing management. The subsidiary opera-
tion would require, at least, an office space and, under some circumstances,
warehousing and showroom space. In the head office, a manager and supporting
staff would be required to fulfill the functions of processing orders, liais-
ing with suppliers, organizing for production, maintaining quality control,
developing products and providing general administration.



-21-
3.24    Financial Structure.  Considering the size of existing export houses
in Pakistan and the requirements in the export market, the most appropriate
level of operation would require a capitalization ranging from Rs 25 million
to Rs 50 million (approximately US$1.5 million to US$3 million). At this
level, the company would be sufficiently large to hire capable staff, estab-
lished market tie-ups with foreign buyers and compete in a competitive
market. An export house would be required to provide 30-401 of the capital
requirement as equity; the remaining 60-70X would be financed under SSI III
with the Bank and the NCBs providing debt financing based on a 60:40 ratio.
Over a three-year period, these capital funds would finance establishment
costs, the development and implementation of comprehensive corporate and
marketing plans, product development costs, salaries and overheads.
Furthermore, export houses would be eligible for the existing Export
Refinance Scheme, i.e., pre- and post-shipment creditst for trading capital.
3.25    Selection Criteria.  Since the purpose is primarily to catalyze, the
proposed assistance would be limited to the development of about five export
houses.  However, in view of the novelty of the proposed approach, initially
only two export houses would be considered.  Following a review by GOP and
thi3 Bank, up to three more export houses could be assisted. To select the
export houses the following criteria would be used: (i) an applicant company
should have an export development plan and a commitment to the concept with a
record of export earnings averaging at least Rs 15 million p.a. in the past
three years; (ii) the company should be a manufacturer-cum-exporter and be
accustomed to dealing with SSIs on a sub-contracting basis; (iii) the company
should have the financial capability to generate at least 301 of the required
permanent working capital and also to meet the terms and conditions of the
subloans under the proposed project; (iv) the company should present a firm
corporate plan and an achievable marketing plan. The EPB would prescreen
applicant export houses according to the above criteria. The lending commer-
cial bank would appraise the subloan proposal of a selected export house and
submit to the Bank approved applications for final review and authorization.
3.26    Proposed Assistance and Cost Estimate.  The proposed project would
support the organization of five medium-scale export houses; provide assis-
tance in training, establishment of overseas offices and promotional
activities; and extend permanent working capital on a long-term basis. The
project would provide US$5 million in foreign exchange denominated in two
parts: the first amounting to US$4 million will cover permanent working
capital, to be provided through the NCBs at a 14X interest rate and with a
ten-year maturity and a grace period of up to two years. The other part
amounting to US$1 million would be for technical assistance in the form of
grants for training, organizational activities, promotions, market research
and advisory services from foreign export houses. The technical assistance
grant of US$200,000 each would have to be matched by the recipient export
house and would be provided through EPB under terms and conditions spelled
out in Annex 5.
Technology and Productivity Fund
3.27    A recently completed report on technology policy suggests that a
prerequisite for increasing ac;quisition of technology in Pakistan are policy
adjustments which increase industrial competition through reduction in import
protection, stimulation of export production and deregulation of the
activities of domestic enterprises. Industrial policy reform was the focus



-22-
of the Pirst Structural Adjustment Loan and is being followed-up under the
Export Development Loan. Future industrial sector and export development
loans would broaden the policy reform initiated under SAL I and the EDL,
focusing on protection and industrial regulations (para. 2.28).
3.28    Complementing policy reform, the purpose of this component is to
develop institutional arrangements which could support the technical develop-
ment of industrial enterprises. There are two main sources of technology for
the industrial sector in Pakistan: foreign companies outside the country and
technical institutions within the country. While larger firms have access to
the technology of foreign companies, smaller enterprises as a group, find it
more difficult and have to depend on intermediaries, e.g., machinery sup-
pliers and local technical institutions, to acquire technology. By and
large, the marketing of machinery and equipment (hardware) in the country is
reasonably efficient with the existence of many indenters and agents repre-
senting a variety of foreign suppliers. The weakness lies in the provision
of technical services (software) required to enable industry to master, adapt
and improve upon technology supplied by the hardware.
3.29    In Pakistan, there are several public sector technical institutions
which are supposed to provide private industry with software for technology
and productivity improvements. The larger ones are the Pakistan Council for
S-cientific and Industrial Research, Pakistan Standards Institute, Pakistan
Industrial Technical Assistance Center, Pakistan Design Institute, Metal
Industry Research and Development Center. The quality of these institutions,
however, is suspect, since they have had little contact with private
industry, have become largely "academic" and supply-oriented and have a poor
image among private industrialists. Moreover, due to permanent constraints
in staffing and funding, many of them have little to offer private industry
in terms of technology updating. 1/
3.30    Objective.  To develop alternative sources of technical services in
the private sector and to generate demand-oriented technology and produc-
tivity upgrading proposals, this component would provide through the three
largest development finance institutions (DFI) partial grants to private
industry for the financing of eligible and viable "technology subprojects"
such as technical consulting services, technical training programs, technical
collaboration packaging or small R&D projects which either introduce new
technology or improve an existing one in private industry.
3.31    Eligible Expenditures.  A list of eligible technology "subprojects",
prepared by the DFIs, were discussed at negotiations.  Eligible expenditures
would be for 50% of costs of consultancy services, training, materials and
small equipment. The other 50% would have to be contributed by the applicant
enterprise. Initially, the subprojects would emphasize assignments which
deal with simple and practi:al technology and productivity improvements that
can be implemented with little or no investment outlay by clients.
Recommendations should be easily implementable and their benefits and impact
readily quantifiable and realizable in the short term. As experience under
the Fund grows, more complex subprojects can be considered.
1/ World Bank Report No. 6151-PAK.



-23-
3.32    Implementing Arrangements.  The three largest DPIs in Pakistan,
namely NDFC, PICIC and IDBP, would be the implementing agencies for this
component. A technology and productivity fund of US$500,000 would be placed
with each of the DFIs. The DFIs would be responsible for developing detailed
policies and procedures for the fund (Annex 6), promoting the fund, solicit-
ing proposals from private industry, appraising the eligibility and viability
of each subproject, submitting approved proposals for Bank approval, disburs-
ing the funds and supervising the subprojects. The National Center for
Technology Transfer (NCTT), a government agency under the Ministry of Science
and Technology, would be responsible for a semi-annual operations audit of
the fund, documentation of the experience and a detailed cost and benefit
study at the completion of the project.
3.33    Funding.  The project would provide US$1.5 million for the technology
and productivity fund. Normally, the project financing would cover 50% of
subproject costs with the balance to be paid by the sponsoring private
enterprise. It is estimated that these subprojects would involve about 100
person-months of foreign consultancy and another 100 person-months of local
consultancy. Cost sharing would be treated initially on a case by case basis
and would be reviewed after some experience has been gained. The project
would also provide NCTT with funds to cover its monitoring costs for three
years, estimated to be US$45,000.
Improvement of SSI Sector Statistics
3.34    Current Status.  To date, the Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS) has
published two studies on on the SSI sector: the Survey of Small and
Household Manufacturing Industries (SHMI), 1976-77 and the Census of
Manufacturing Industries, 1980-81. The former covers the informal sector,
i.e., small manufacturing establishments with fixed assets (excluding value
of land) rnot exceeding Rs 2 million and all household manufacturing units,
while the latter covers those manufacturing establishments registered under
the Factories Act of 1934. In addition, the 1983-84 survey of SHMI has been
completed and will be issued by the end of December 1986. Annual updates of
SSI statistics up to FY85 is currently based on a simple extrapolation using
a constant growth rate which is the average growth rate between the FY77 and
FY81 surveys. SSI statistics up to FY85 were arrived at by compounding the
FY77 data by a growth rate of 7.3% p.a. Preliminary findings of the FY84
survey show that the growth rate between FY81 and FY84 was not 7.3% but 8.4%.
This "new" average growth rate will now be used to correct data from FY81 to
FY85 and to update SSI statistics annually from FY86 onwards until the next
survey. Under the present methodology, annual SSI statistics are clearly
unreliable and cannot provide an adequate basis for reviewing sector perfor-
mance and performing meaningful statistical and economic analysis.
3.35    Planned Census of Establishments.  The basic problem is the absence
of a census of establishments from which FBS can derive a reliable sampling
frame for annual surveys to update the statistics. FBS plans to conduct the
first ever census of establishments in both urban and rural areas and is
requesting Bank assistance. The census would cover all large, small, and
household establishments and would provide a sampling frame which would form
the basis for conducting various sample surveys to be undertaken annually
subsequently. The FBS expects to undertake the census on quinquennial basis
and, during the intervening years, sample surveys of small and household
manufacturing industries. This approach will not only establish the data



-24-
base but also generate more reliable annual data with the base year set by
the quinquennial census.
3.36    Estimatet Cost and Proposed Assistance.  The estimated cost for
conducting the Census of Establishments include: (a) local currency costs
of Rs 5 million covering salaries and allowances for staff; (b) foreign
exchange costs of about US$500,000 covering vehicles (US$100,000), training
(US$70,000), consultants (US$80,000), and printing/cartographic equipment
(US$250,000). The training program would focus on strengthening the FBS
ability for statistical and economic analysis. Consultancy services would be
required to assist FBS in designing the census and surveys, training
enumerators and statisticians and in data processing, interpretation and
analysis. The project would finance the foreign exchange cost of US$500,000
while GOP would finance the local currency cost of Rs 5 million.
IV. THE IDAN
A. Terms and Conditions
4.01    Subloan Component.  Under the proposed project, the Bank would
provide a Loan of US$54.0 million for the credit component. The proposed
Bank Loan of US$54.0 million would be made to the Government of Pakistan at
the Bank standard variable interest rate with a repayment period of 20 years
including 5 years of grace. The Loan would be on-lent in local currency to
the six participating credit institutions under terms and conditions to be
spelled out in subsidiary loan agreements between GOP and the six PCIs at an
interest rate which would allow the PCIs to receive a spread of 4.75X p.a.
At the proposed initial lending rate of 141 p.a. to the subborrowers, GOP
would on-lend the loan proceeds to the PCIs at 9.251 p.a. CON would provide
to GOP grant funds amounting to US$7.5 million equivalent (f. 15 million)
which would be on-lent to the PCIs and SSI subborrowers on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. GOP and the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC)
would also enter into and sign an administrative agreement which would spell
out PBC's responsibilities as the monitoring and coordinating agency.
4.02    The PCIs, upon approval by their respective boards of directors,
would issue to their offices and branches a circular which would spell out
operating policies and procedures, eligibility criteria, and terms and condi-
tions governing their sublending activities under the project. Similarly,
PBC, upon approval by its board, would submit to the Bank its policy and
strategy statement detailing policies, procedures, strategy and work program
and staffing of its Small Industries Department. Drafts of the subsidiary
loan agreement, the administrative agreement, PBC's strategy and policy
statement and the PCIs' circular were discussed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations (para. 6.03).
4.03    Completion of the following steps would be conditions of Loan
effectiveness:
(a) signing of subsidiary loan agreements by GOP and at least two PCIs
(para. 6.03 a);
(b) approval by their respective boards of directors and issue by these
signatory PCIs of their circular governing operating policies and



-25-
procedures, eligibility criteria and sublending terms and conditions
(para. 6.03 c); and
(c) signing of the administrative agreement by GOP and PBC
(para. 6.03 b).
4.04    Technical Assistance Components.  The US$5.0 million for technical
assistance would be provided by the Government of the Netherlands to GOP as a
grant. In turn, GOP would pass on these fund as grants to the respective
implementing agencies as budgetary allocations. The US$1.0 million for the
promotion of export houses would be disbursed through the Export Promotion
Bureau (EPB) to finance technical assistance expenditures of the selected
export houses. The US$1.5 million for the technology and productivity fund
would be passed on to the three development finance institutions (NDFC, PICIC
& IDBP) for disbursement on a grant basis to eligible private industrial
units for approved technology "subprojects". The US$500,000 for the improve-
ment of SSI statistics would be disbursed to the Federal Bureau of Statistics
to meet foreign expenditures associated with the proposed census of estab-
lishments and annual surveys of the SSI sector. The US$2.0 million for
training and consultancy services for the PCIs would be disbursed to PBC who
would administer the funds on behalf of the PCIs.
4.05    Completion of the following steps would be conditions of disbursement
for CON grant funds for each respective TA component:
(a) for the TA fund of US$1.0 million for export houses, approval and
issue by EPB of a statement of policy and strategy acceptable to the
Bank; approval by the Ministry of Commerce and issue of a circular
allowing suppliers to the selected export houses to avail of export
incentives currently available to direct exporters (para. 6.04 a);
and
(b) for the technology and productivity fund, approval by their boards
and issue by the DFIs of a statement of policy and strategy, accept-
able to the Bank (para 6.04 b).
4.06    Relending Terms.  For the subloans, the lending rate would be ini-
tially 14X. Given the current inflation rate of 52 and projected inflation
of below 10X, the lending rate is substantially positive and is expected to
remain so (para. 2.11). To ensure that the final lending rate would remain
positive in real terms and consistent with the overall interest rate
structure, the rate would be reviewed annually in conjunction with the review
required under IIC II. To provide sufficient incentives to the PCIs to
expand their SSI lending and to compensate for higher administrative costs
and risks of SSI lending, the PCIs would receive an interest spread of 4.75%
p.a. PBC, as the monitoring and coordinating agency, would receive funds in
its regular budget financed by the NCBs to cover its administrative costs.
4.07    Repayment Terms.  Based on past experience, the average maturity of
subloans would be about 8 years, including a year's grace period. Since the
credit component is expected to be disbursed in four years and the last
subloan would have a grace period of one year, the repayment schedule of the
PCIs to GOP would be calculated on a fixed schedule of 12 years inclusive of
a five-year grace. This would approximate a back-to-back repayment schedule,
while avoiding the complexity of a composite amortization schedule based on



-26-
repayment schedules of very many subloans. The PCIs would be allowed to use
recycled funds arising from maturity mismatchea in individual subloans only
for lending to SBI units which meet the eligibility criteria.
4.08    Exchange and Interest Rate Risks.  As in other recent IDA/IBRD
credits/loans for 8SI projects, GOP would carry the exchange and interest
rate risks, since SSI units do not have the capability to plan and hedge
against risks emanating from exchange and interest rate adjustments.
B. Administrative Procedures
4.09    Refinance Arrangements and Special Account.  All subloans which are
approved by the PCIs and subsequently authorized by the Bank are eligible for
refinance up to 60X of subloan amounts (para. 3.09). A PCI can claim
refinance against subloan disbursements from the Bank on a periodic (e.g.
monthly) basis by furnishing PBC a certification that disbursements have been
made, and required procurement procedures have been followed. PBC would
consolidate requests for refinance from the PCIs and submit them to the Bank
on a periodic basis, with a copy to Habib Bank Ltd (HBL) which will handle
the Special Account for this project. HBL would refinance the PCIs on the
basis of these requests out of the special account to be opened in it for
this project. The Bank would then reimburse the special account on the basis
of the requests for refinance submitted by PBC. Each PCI would keep, in a
case-by-case file, documents evidencing disbursements and procurement of
goods. These files will be opened to inspection by Bank and PBC review
missions. Upon loan effectiveness, the Bank would disburse into a special
account in HBL US$5 million which would serve as the revolving fund.
4.10    Procurement.  Procurement procedures under the proposed project would
be the same as those established under the past S8I projects which were found
ncceptable to the Bank. Considering the great number of small items to be
procured and consistent with normal practices for 8I projects, international
comyetitive bidding would not be required. The procurement of goods would be
as follows: goods costing US$50,000 equivalent or more per item or
US$100,000 equivalent or more per contract procured outside Pakistan shall be
let through international shopping on the basis of at least three competitive
quotations; for goods procured locally or goods procured outside Pakistan
with single items costing less than U8$50,000 or combined items costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent, the existing procedures of the participating
credit institutions are considered adequate; the PCIs would also have to
certify that these goods were purchased at reasonable and competitive prices,
due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery, quality and reliability of goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts.        1
4.11    Under their current procedures, the PCIs  require their clients to
obtain and submit three competitive quotations. As in the past 88I projects,
the PCIs would be required to maintain records of the method of procurement,
summarizing offers and awards per subproject. PBC would periodically review
these records which are kept in the files of PCI branches. Based on PBC
reports on these reviews, Bank supervision missions would examine some
records on a sampling basis.



-27-
4.12    Procurement for equipment, vehicles and materials to be provided
under the TA components procured outside the country shall be let through
international shopping on the basis of at least three responsive price
quotations. For goods procured locally, the procurement procedures shall be
those of the Government for local competitive bidding, which, in general,
have been found acceptable to the Bank. For consultants to be employed under
the proposed project, the respective implementation agencies would follow the
guidelines for the use of consultants issued by the Bank in August 1981. All
terms of reference and appointment of consultants would be subject to prior
Bank approval.
4.13    Disbursements and Retroactive Financing.  For the credit component,
all disbursements for foreign or local expenditures made by the PCIs would be
financed equally at 60% of subloan amounts. Disbursements would be made
against certified statements of expenditures for which appropriate documenta-
tion would be retained by the PCIs and made available for PBC/Bank supervi-
sion missions. The Bank's reimbursement would be limited to expenditures
made by a subborrower not more than 180 days prior to the Bank's receipt of
PBC's request for reimbursement. However, to assist the PCIs in financing
subloans which continued to be committed despite full commitment of SSI II
retroactive financing up to US$5 million equivalent would be allowed for
expenditures incurred on or after July 1, 1986.
4.14    For the technical assistance components, the Bank would disburse out
of the GON funds 100% of expenditures for consultants and training; of CIF
cost of imported equipment and supplies; and of the ex-factory cost of local
equipment and supplies. For imported equipment and supplies which are pur-
chased locally, the Bank would disburse 75%. The disbursement percentages
have been calculated in compliance with the Bank policy that th^ proceeds of
the Loan would not be disbursed on account of payment for taxes and duties
levied by the government. Withdrawal applications would be submitted to the
Bank by the implementing agency concerned. Disbursement of the technical
assistance funds for the PCIs would be channeled through PBC. The Loan is
expected to be committed in three years. A disbursement schedule based on
the latest regional subsector disbursement profile is given in Annex 7.
4.15    Reporting, Accounts and Audits.  The participating credit
institutions would submit semi-annual progress reports on commitments,
disbursements, collections and arrears under the project to PBC. PBC would
consolidate the report for transmittal to the Bank. In addition, the PCIs
would maintain proper accounts for subloans including supporting disbursement
and procurement documents, which would be audited annually, according to
current practice which is acceptable to the Bank. Currently, the PCI audits
are undertaken by qualified local private auditing companies, acceptable to
the Bank. Since all the subloans would be disbursed on the basis of cer-
tified statements of expenditures (SOE), the audit reports would need to
include a special opinion by the auditors on the adequacy of SOB procedures.
Past audit reports of the PCIs have been submitted on time. However, they
did not contain a special opinion by the auditors on the SOE. The PCIs were
asked to submit the SOE opinion and this was complied with on September 30,
1986. After full disbursement of a subloan, a participating credit institu-
tion will prepare a subproject completion report, comparing actual vs.
projected costs and benefits of the sukproject. PBC would consolidate these
reports and include them in its semi-annual report to the Bank.



-28-
4.16    The technical assistance implementing agencies would prepare and
submit semi-annual progress reports directly to the Bank. Accounts specific
to the components would be maintained separately and would be audited
annually according to current practice, acceptable to the Bank. Audit
reports should be submitted to th lank no later than six months after the
close of the fiscal year.
C. Co-financing
4.17    Co-financing by CON in the amount of US$12.5 million equivalent
(f. 25 million) will be used to co-finance the proposed project. For this
purpose, CON and the Government of Pakistan would enter into a Development
Grant Agreement (DGA) which would spell out the premises and the terms and
conditions of the grant and specify that the execution of the proposed
project would be in accordance with the Loan Agreement and be administered by
the Bank. The DCA would also specify that withdrawals out of the grant would
be through the Bank under standard Bank procedures. For this purpose, CON
would deposit the first tranche of the grant with the bank upon effectiveness
of the grant. CON expects to disburse the grant in tranches of f.lO million
in CY 1987, f.10 million in CY 1988 and f.5 million in CY 1989.
4.18    The Bank and CON would enter into an Administration Agreement which
would spell out the role of the Bank as administrator of the grant on behalf
of CON. The agreement would specify that the Bank would administer the grant
and supervise the project under its standard procedures and that the Bank
would provide to CON copies of its regular supervision and project completion
reports.
4.19    The Government of the Netherlands has agreed in principle with COP
that it will provide about US$12.5 million equivalent (f. 25 million) of
grant funds to co-finance the proposed project. During negotiations, CON
representatives confirmed this agreement and provided CON's comments on the
proposed project based on the report of its appraisal mission in August 1986.
The conments were accepted and reflected in the minutes of negotiations and
in otber project documents. Signing of the Development Grant Agreement by
CON and COP and the Administrative Agreement between CON and the Bank would
be conditions of disbursement for the US$4 million subloan component for the
export houses (pars. 6.04 a).
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01    The small scale industries sector is one of the most dynamic segments
of tie Pakistan economy and plays a major role in achieving COP's economic
and social objectives. The proposed project would support COP's strategy for
modernizing and expanding the sector by making investment funds more readily
available and by providing effective marketing and technical services. The
Bank loan would fill a significant portion of the resource gap for 88I lend-
ing and assist GOP and the banking system mobilize and allocate appropriate
resources for this sector. By providing funds at the formal market interest



-29-
rates, the average cost of funds for 88I investments and operations (which
are still largely financed by the informal market) would decline, thereby
strengthening the sector's financial position and encouraging further 8SI
investments. At the same time, by discouraging interest subsidization, the
S8I lending program would improve project selection, encourage labor-
intensive options, prevent diversion of funds and allow the banking system to
operate profitably and expand its 881 portfolio. Long-term Bank funds would
blend with commercial bank short-term funds to increase term transformation
at prudent levels. Application of project-based lending methodology by the
banks would improve project selection by complementing the traditional
creditworthiness approach of comercial banks.
5.02    it is anticipated that about 1,300 subprojects would be financed,
resulting in investments of about US$160 million. As in the first and second
projects, it is expected that most subloans would be for smaller units, with
subloan amounts averaging about US$60,000. The subprojects financed are
expected to generate about 28,000 new full-time work places at a cost per job
of about US$6,000. These investments are expected to produce additional
goods and services worth about US$100 million.
5.03    The SSI credit delivery system, started under the first project, has
proved to be basically sound and would continue to be strengthened under the
proposed project. The project would continue to assist the PCIs to improve
and expand their institutional capability for 58I financing, with increasing
emphasis on their branches. The entry of IDBP as a sixth PCI would provide
borrowers with another alternative source of financing and improve banking
services through greater competition. Staff training and systems improve-
ments within the PCIs would shorten loan processing time, improve project
implementation and strengthen the PCIs' project supervision and loan collec-
tion systems.
5.04    The promotion of export houses is expected to initiate rationaliza-
tion of the highly fragmented export sector and provide a vehicle for greater
export product and market diversification. With better marketing skills, the
export houses would help improve Pakistan's image as a supplier to world
markets by improving performance in delivery, product standardization and
quality. By providing a system whereby suppliers can avail of export incen-
tives currently available only to direct exporters, this component would
encourage backward linkages in the export production sector. The technology
and productivity fund would provide technical services to improve the techni-
cal performance of private industry. Experience under this component would
be used to develop institutional arrangements for a technology delivery
system in future. The technical assistance for the Federal Bureau of
Statistics would improve data collection, processing and analysis and provide
more reliable and accurate information for future policy and strategy
formulation.
B. Risks
5.05    Investments in the sector and the operating performance of individual
enterprises are dependent on overall political stability. Should adverse
developments occur, particularly during the current political transition
phase in Pakistan, the 881 sector will be affected, although to a lesser



-30-
extent than large industries which require greater investments and have
greater visibility. The country continues to suffer from infrastructural
deficiencies which can discourage investments, affect operating performance
and reduce overall efficiency. Hotvever, compared to large industryt small
industries require less infrastructure and therefore would be less affected
by these deficiencies.
5.06    If GOP were to expand the subsidized lending programs introduced last
yeart this could affect the rate nif utilization of the subloan component,
since the subloan rate of 14X under the project would not be competitive with
the subsidized rates. However, the 32 lending program for locally fabricated
equipment is expected to remain small. In FY86, only about Rs 218 million
was disbursed. The 10% lending program for imported machinery has not
materialized because the NCBs which will have to bear the subsidy are not
prepared to do so voluntarily. The Government has advised the Bank that
these subsidized programs will ramain smell and will have no appreciable
effect on the proposed project. The annual interest rate review required
under this project will be used to monitor the size of these subsidized
programs and their effect on the project.
5.07    Success in the promotion of export houses would be dependent on the
policy change allowing indirect exporters equal export incentives as direct
exporters; the proper selection of entrepreneurs who understand the concept,
are willing to invest in it and have the management capability to make the
concept work and on the support provided by the technical assistance
component. The policy change is being undertaken under the Export
Development Loan and will, in addition, be a condition of disbursement for
this component. To ensure proper selection of entrepreneurs, assistance
under this component will be limited to a total of five export houses, will
start with two export houses, and will require rigid screening procedures by
the lending commercial banks, the Export Promotion Bureau and the Bank.
Technical assistance is being provided to allow the selected export houses to
employ consultants and receive training from successful export houses in East
Asia.
5.08    The technology and productivity program is basically an experiment in
developing alternative sources of technical services in the private sector.
As such, its success depends on the response of the private sector both on
the demand side from those who require technical services and on the supply
side from those with the capability to provide the services. Placing the
fund in the DFIs which have established close contact with private industry
through their lending programs gives the experiment a good chance of suceeding.
DFIs, moreover, can complement the provision of technical services with the
provision of investment funds, if needed for technology upgrading. Using
NCTT, an independent government agency, to monitor the program will provide
the Bank with an independent assessment of this pilot component.
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, GOPOs agreement on the following were confirmed:
(a)  the raising of the interest rate for SSI term loans from 112 p.a. to
141 p.a. in line with the current market rate for industrial term



-31-
lending in the country; and an annual review and appropriate adjust-
ment of the SSI lending rate in conjunction with those under IIC II
(paras. 2.11 and 4.06);
(b) conditions of participation for the PCIs (paras 3.10-3.11);
(c) on-lending terms and conditions, margins, eligibility criteria and
refinance arrangements (paras. 3.14-3.15, 4.06-4.09);
(d) budgetary allocations by government agencies and the PCIs as counter-
part funds for the technical assistance components of the project
(para. 3.04);
(e) procedures for procurement, disbursement, reporting, accounting and
auditing (paras. 4.10-4.16);
(f) staffing patterns and details on technical assistance for participat-
ing credit institutions and the SID of PBC (paras. 3.13, 3.16); and
(g) conditions for retroactive financing (para. 4.13).
6.02    During negotiations, drafts of the following documents were discussed
and agreed on:
(a) subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and the six PCIs;
(b) administrative agreements between GOP and PBC;
(c) circular containing operating policies and procedures of the par-
ticipating credit institutions;
(d) policy and strategy statement of PBC;
(e) policy and strategy statement for the technical assistance funds of
EPB; and
(f) policy and strategy statement for the technology and productivity
fund.
6.03    The following would be conditions of Loan effectiveness:
(a) signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and at least
two PCIs, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 a);
(b) signing of administrative agreement between GOP and PBC, satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 4.03 c); and
(c) approval by the respective boards of the signatory banks and issue of
circulars containing operating policies and procedures under the
Project, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 b).
6.04    The following conditions would have to be met before disbursements of
the Dutch grant and/or the Bank loan for specific components are allowed:



-32-
(a) for the export house TA and subloan components, approval and issue by
EPS of a statement of policy and strategy acceptable to the Bank;
approval by the Ministry of Commerce and issue of a circular allowing
suppliers to the selected export houses to avail themselves of export
incentives currently available to direct exporters (para. 4.05 a);
and signing of the Development Grant Agreement between GOP and GON and
of the Administrative Agreement between CON and the Bank (para. 4.19);
and
(b) for the technology and productivity component, approval by their
boards and issue by the DFIs of a statement of policy and strategy,
acceptable to the Bank, for the technology and productivity fund
(para. 4.05 b);
6.05    The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan
of US$54 million at the standard variable interest rate and a Dutch govern-
ment grant aid of US$12.5 million equivalent (f. 25 million) for the
Government of Pakistan, under conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



-33-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Profile of Subprojects Financed Under Credits 1113-PAX AND 1499-PAK 1/
1.      Commitments and Disbursements.  The First 8S1 Credit (Cr. 1113-PAK) was
fully disbursed and closed on schedule on December 31, 1985. As of March 31,
1986, one year and six months after the Second SSI Credit's (Cr. 1499-PAK)
effectiveness, the five participaring credit institutions (PCI) had approved for
928 subprojects subloans amounting to US$48 million, or 701 of the total amount
of US$69 million equivalent available for subloans. 2/ Disbursements to sub-
projects by the PCIs have reached US$21 million, or 42Z of approvals and 30X of
the total amount available. Currently, there are about 200 subloan applications
at different stages of processing with the PCIs amounting to about US$14
million. Average monthly rate of approvals increased to about US$3 million
during first quarter of 1986 compared with U'S$2.5 million during 1985. Based on
the current rates and the pipeline of subprojects, comuitment and disbursement
of the subloan component are likely to be completed by December 1986 and June
1988, respectively.
2.      Collection Performance.  The average collection performance of the PCIs
undor SSI I & II as of February 28, 1986 improved to 79X of total amounts due
compared to 641 in September 1985. This is better than the 751 cash collection
rate required as a condition for participation under IIC II. Improvement in
performance was achieved by an intensive collection drive by the PCIs which
involved the inspection of all subprojects under S8I I and half of subprojects
under SSI II. Moreover, systems and procedures for collection were improved
including timely billing of clientsa more frequet and organized follow-up on
defaulting clients, application of presure on defaulting clients through threat
of penalties and use of authority to debit client accounts to pay off arrears.
The banks also reviewed delayed projects under 8SI I and adjusted the amortiza-
tion schedules of deserving cases. These rescheduled cases account for 31 of
total amounts due.
3.      Subloan Characteristics.  The average subloan size under SSI II
increased to US$52,000 compared with USt42,000 under S3I I. The increase is
due to the change in SSI definition (from Rs 3 million to Rs 5 million), a
larger proportion of above free-limit cases, and more loans for expansion
subprojects. The ratio of above free limit cases increased to 61 in number and
201 in amount under the second credit compared to 41 and 151 respectively under
the first credit. As IDA requirement was 50:50 in amount, the distribution
indicates that smaller enterprises had adequate access to these credit lines.
1/ Data on Credit 1113-PAK are actuals based on PCR information; data on
Credit 1499-PAK are estimates.
#%& nS-Rhnwt ;_ rtnA  _*:-s           A '%  #  T kw^



-34-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
4.      The financing pattern and subloan utilization characteristics are shown
in Tabl  1:
Table 1
Second Credit      First Credit
Financing:
Average Maturity               7 years, 7 months   7 years, 3 months
Sponsors Equity                       62Z                  67%
PCI Financing                         12X                   7%
IDA Financing                         26%                  26Z
Utilization:
Factory Buildings                     12Z                  20X
Machinery & Equipment                 73Z                  65%
Permanent Working Capital             15%                  15%
The average sponsors equity contribution was 62% under the second and 67% under
the first credit compared with the minimum requirement of 30%, indicating much
higher domestic resource mobilization than anticipated and stronger capital
structuring of subprojects by the commercial banks. As anticipated, reduction
in the share of IDA financing increased PCI cofinancing from 7% to 12%. This,
in turn, reduced financing by the informal market (shown as part of owner's
equity) reducing average cost of borrowing and strengthening SSIs' financial
position.
5.      Over-investment in buildings in some of the subprojects under the first
credit has been rectified by limiting eligibility of building expenditures. The
average expenditure on buildings reduced from 20% to 12%. Most of the subloans
financed local and imported but locally available goods. Under the first credit
about 10 and under the second credit only about 6% of the subloan amounts were
used in foreign exchange for direct imports by sub-borrowers. The foreign
exchange application of funds including indirect foreign costs is estimated to
be about 30%.
6.      Subproject Characteristics.  The first credit financed 433 new and 221
BMRS (balancing, modernization, replacement and expansion)-subprojects while the
Second Credit as of March 31, 1986 financed 648 new and 280 BMRE subprojects.
Under the first credit, 35% of the subprojects belonged to the five subsectors
identified at appraisal as growth areas, namely light engineering,
textiles/garments, surgical instruments, sports goods and leather products.
Under the second project, 71% of the subprojects belonged to the identified
growth areas namely light engineering, textiles/garments and agro-industry
(including agro-processing such as oil extraction, cotton ginning, rice/flour
milling and fruit/vegetable processing). Subsectoral distribution of sub-
projects is shown in Table 2.



-35-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
Table 2: SUBSECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
(Re million)
Second Credit    First Credit
Subsectors                                  No.    Amount    No.   Amount
1. Textiles and Garments
Weaving                              66       48.9     54     22.7
Finishing                             6        9.4      8      7.6
Specialized Textiles                 41       30.6     27     13.8
Carments                             20       23.2     16      12.6
2.  Surgical Instruments                    26      21.7     16      10.5
3.  Leather and Leather Goods               12      12.8      12      5.4
4.  Sports Goods                             7       6.6       2      1.5
5. Light Engineering
Workshop                             53       39.2     40     21.5
Rerolling                            33       30.3     16      11.0
Wires and Cables                     11        8.0      7      4.5
Agri-Implements                      27       18.5     20      10.6
Electrical Goods                     14        9.3     12       7.1
Others                               10       12.1      5       3.5
6.  Furniture and Wood Products             34      23.4     21      12.5
7.  Oil Extraction                          68      53.7     45      27.0
8.  Cotton Ginning                          62      53.4     44      33.1
9.  Ice and Cold Storage                   109      70.3     75      38.5
10.  Marble Processing                        9       7.8      9       6.2
11.  Printing an  Packing                   40       40.8     28      19.1
12.  Fruits and Vegetables and Other         32      29.0     24      16.0
Agro-Business
13.  Rice/Flour Milling                     47       27.4     35      16.7
14.  Hotel                                   14      15.5     11       7.4
15.  Poultry Farm and Feeds                 38       28.0     27      15.6
16.  Miscellaneous                          149     155.1    100      54.2
28     775.0    654    378.4
7.      UnderWM second credit, the amount of loans going to NWFP and
Baluchistan was about 40X more than under the first credit; in relative terme,
however, these provinces received a smaller share under the second credit,
indicating difficult project promotion problems in these areas. Due to
implementation delays, the project promotion and development work for these
provinces included in the TA component under the second credit has not had any
impact yet.



-36-
ANNEX 1
Pals 4 of 5
Table 3: GEOGRAPIICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS
Second Credit     First Credit
Punjab                       621               60X
Sind                         31Z               30X
NWFP                          51                8Z
Baluchistan                   2Z                21
8.      The average subproject size in fixed assets (excluding land and
buildings) was Rs 623,000 under 881 I and Rs 1.0 million under SSI II compared
with the size definition of Rs 3 million and Res S million, respectively.
Subprojects under the second credit with total assets upto Rs 1.0 million and
above Rs 3 million were 231 and 151 respectively while under the first credit
they were 271 and 13X respectively; most of the financing, therefore, was
smaller subprojects. The distribution is detailed in Table 3 belowt
Table 4: SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
(Rs in Million)
Second Credit   First Credit
1. FIXED ASSETS EXCLUDING LAND AND BUILDINGS       No.    Amount   No.    Amount
a- Rs               Less than  Rs  100,000    53       4,298    38       1,860
b- Rs  100,000 to              Rs 499,000   300    124,396   210       53,482
c- Rs  500,000 to              Re  999,000   353    341,964   249    146,980
d- Rs 1000,000 to              Rs 1999,000   182    335,456   128    144,189
e- as 2000,000 and above                       40    142,304    29     61,181
Total    928    948,418   654    407,692
2. TOTAL ASSETS
a- Less than Rs 500,000                        80     33,170    63     38,325
b- Rs  500,000 to Rs  999,000                 135    147,045   117    119,910
c- Rs 1000,000 to Rs 1999,000                 424    855,360   287    508,195
d- Rs 2000,000 to Rs 2999,000                 150    447,945   106    212,340
e- Rs 3000,000 and above                      139    762,640    81    201,617
928  2p2462160   654  1p0809287
9.      Economic Impact.  The US$26 million under the first credit and the US$34
million (upto March 1986) under the second credit have resulted in total invest-
ments equivalent to about US$80 million and US$130 million, respectively.  The
654 subprojects under the first credit generated employment for 12,800 persons
at an investment cost per job of Rs 84,000 compared to the eligibility criterion
of Rs 100,000 per job. Under the second credit, the 928 subprojects are
expected to create new jobs for about 24,000 persons at an investment cost per
job of Is 94,000. This ex ante figure of 24,000 jobs appears to be an overes-
timate and has, therefore, reduced the cost per job lower than that under the



-37-
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
first credit when adjusted for inflation and devaluation. The subprojects under
both credits are almost totally dependent on local raw materials (97X). Foreign
exchange earnings under the first credit are estimated to be Rs 65 million while
incremental value added is estimated to be Rs 680 million; most units financed
produce for the domestic market.
10.     Participation by PCIs.  Table 4 shows the number of subprojects approved
by each PCI. Under the first credit, National Bank of Pakistan and United Bank
were the most active while under the second credit, Habib Bank became the most
active in consonance with its status as the largest bank in Pakistan. PCI
involvement in these credits generally reflect their relative sizes, i.e., three
large banks and two smaller banks, since participation is coordinated by PBC and
competition is encouraged according to relative size.
Table 5
No. of Subprojects Committed
Bank                          Second Credit   First Credit
Habib Bank                         290            156
National Bank                      231            172
United Bank                        198            172
Muslim Commercial Bank              98             98
Allied Bank                       Ill              56
11.     Lending Quality.  Based on a field sur4ey of 101 of the subprojects
financed under these credits, the lending decisions made appear to be generally
sound and the quality of appraisal satisfactory. The PCIs have improved their
appraisal of the marketing and technical aspects of subprojects which was found
to be weak under the first credit. The PCIs ensure that, in cases of sub-
projects involving complex processes, the sponsors obtain the necessary techni-
cal know-how through foreign collaboration or by employing qualified personnel.
Of the 65 subloans reviewed, 24 were found to have inadequate procurement and
disbursement practices, such as inadequate competitive quotations from
suppliers. Weaknesses were noted also as regards assessment of sub-borrower's
capability to provide the required equity funds, availability of raw material in
project locations and assessment of market demand. Discussions with some bor-
rowers revealed dissatisfaction concerning long loan processing duration and
stringent collateral requirements. The provincial Small Industries Corporations
also pointed out lack of cooperation by PCIs in sharing information concerning
status of subproject applications prepared by them. These findings have been
provided to the PBC for discussions with the PCIs and for appropriate action.



-38-
ANNEX 2
Page i of 9
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
The Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB)
Background
1.      Overview.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:  (i) five
nationalized commercial banks (NCB); (ii) seventeen foreign commercial banks
(PCI); (iii) four specialized commercial banks; (iv) nine development finance
institutions (DWI); (v) several insurance companies; (vi) two leasing
companies; (vii) two stock exchanges; and (viii) a housing finance
corporation.  The NCBs, with about 7,000 branches, dominate the financial
system accounting for about 851 of total assets. The State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank, regulates and supports the financial system within
overall policies set by GOP. The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC), an inter-
mediary agency between GOP and the NCBs, oversees and coordinates the
activities of the NCBs and fulfills many of the functions previously dis-
charged by their former private shareholders. The Ministry of Finance
monitors the operations of the other financial institutions.
2.      History.  The commercial banking system in Pakistan predates the
country's independence. Most banking functions before independence, however,
were carried out by numerous branches of foreign and Indian banks having
their main offices in Bombay, Calcutta, and Delhi. Most of them closed their
offices upon partition, so that Pakistan had to rebuild its banking system.
The oldest "Pakistani" bank was incorporated in 1941 by the Habib group of
entrepreneurs, with headquarters in Bombay. The Australasia Bank (now form-
ing the Allied Bank) was established in Lahore early in 1947. In the same
year, another moslem bank, the Muslim Commercial Bank was organized in
Calcutta. With the transfer of the headquarters of Habib Bank and Muslim
Commercial Bank to Karachi immediately after partitiorf, Pakistan started out
with only three banks. In July 1948, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) was
established as the central bank of the country. One of its first functions
was the issuance of currency to replace Indian currency notes in circulation
as a transition measure. The second important function was the promotion of
banking companies. A Banking Companies Act was passed in 1948, and the first
bank to be established after independence, was a government bank, the
National Bank of Pakistan, in November 1949. The existing Pakistani banks
also were encouraged to expand and the branches of foreign banks allowed to
continue their activities undisturbed. In the late 1950s, commercial banking
expanded rapidly and new private banking institutions, such as the National
Commercial Bank in 1957 and the United Bank Ltd. (UBL) in 1959, were created.
In the 1960s, two other important banks were established--Commerce Bank and
Standard Bank and by the early 1970s there were 13 Pakistani banks.
3.      As banking grew, GOP felt the need to review the effectiveness of
banks in promoting economic development. In 1959, a Credit Enquiry
Commission was appointed to examine the provision of credit to agriculture,
business and industry, with particular emphasis on primary producers and
small businesses. The Commission found a tendency for credit to gravitate
towards established groups of entrepreneurs and to be unavailable to small
industrial and atricultural nroducers. and recommended that ma&aurem bp tAkan



-39-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
to redistribute financial resources. Acting on these general
recommendations, during the 1960s, GOP sought to channel credit to targeted
sectors mainly through specialized institutions and other schemes financed by
SBP.  However, within the commercial banking system little was changed; in
1972, GOP saw the need to enact a Banking Reforms Act which expanded sig-
nificantly SBP's control authority over the banks, to the extent of removing
directors and management, if necessary. Capital and reserve requirements
were raised and reinvestment of a percentage of profits made compulsory. GOP
felt that the banks were failing to play an effective role in ensuring a
wider and more equitable dispersal of the benefits of economic growth.
Together with banking reforms, SBP introduced more specialized credit schemes
for small producers in agriculture and industry, this time enjoining greater
commercial bank participation.
4.      Nationalization.  These measures proved to be a prelude to the
Nationalization of Banks Act of 1974, whereby the SBP and all the commercial
banks incorporated in Pakistan were brought uncer direct government
ownership. The directors and management of the banks were removed and
replaced by government appointees. The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) was
established to coordinate the activities of the local commercial banks, which
were merged to form the present five NCBs.  Under Government direction, the
banking system was encouraged to expand its operations and geographical
presence, with a view to redirecting banking services and resources to sec-
tors and areas considered important in the national economic interest. At
the same time, GOP continued to permit the establishment of foreign banks
with fewer controls; these banks continued to limit their operations to the
more profitable areas of foreign trade financing. As recently as in 1982,
three additional foreign banks were allowed to enter the Pakistani banking
industry.
Present Structure
5.      With assets of Rs 320 billion or about 902 of the total assets of the
financial system as of June 30, 1985, and a network of 7,000 branches, com-
mercial banks play a dominant role in Pakistan's financial system. In turn,
the five NCBs account for about 94% of deposits, 90% of advances and 87X of
the commercial banks' net profits.



-40-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
Table 1: THE COMMERCIAL BANKING SYSTEM,
KEY INDICATORS, 1983-1985 /a
NCF,s                 CBss
1983   1984   1985   1983   1984   1985
Deposits (Rs billion)                159.7  175.1  200.1   10.3   11.3   n.a.
Advances (Rs billion)                 91.6  100.4  116.5   10.2   10.0   n.a.
Total Assets (Rs billion)            225.3  246.7  292.4   28.6   26.4   n.a.
Advances/Deposits (X)                 57.4   57.3   58.2   99.0   88.5   n.a.
Capital and Reserves (Rs billion)      4.5    5.3    6.5    0.8    0.8   n.a.
Capital/Deposit (Z)                    2.8    3.0    3.3    7.8    7.1   n.a.
After Tax Profits (Rs billion)         0.74   0.97   1.23   0.12   0.23  n.a.
After Tax Return on Total Assets Z    0.30   0.64   0.42   0.52   0.87  n.a.
Operating Costs as X of Average
Total Deposits                       3.0    3.1    3.1    5.2    5.2   n.a.
Number of Branches /b                6,931  6,777  6,713       59     58   n.a.
* 7a As of December 31.
7i As of June 30.
Sources  Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1984 and Pakistan Banking Council
6.      Through the years, Pakistani banks have developed a branch system
abroad. Branches were first established in the United Kingdom. More
recently, the overseas branch system has expanded as Pakistan's foreign trade
diversified and as increasing numbers of Pakistani nationals migrated to
Europe, the Middle East, Europe, and Africa.  By 1985, the NCBs had 115
branches abroad which contribute significantly to deposits via workers'
remittances and to profits through foreign exchange and trade operations.
Table 2: FOREIGN BRANCHES OF NCBs
(as of 1985)
Continental   Middle   Other
USA   UK     Europe        East    Places   Total
HBL                       1    16        5           28       15       65
NBP                       4     8        2            2        6       22
UBL,                      1    10        -           13        -       24
MCB                       -     2        -            -        -        2
ABL                       -     2        -            -        -        2
Total                     6   .38         7.         43       21      115
=    ==        =            = 8   ==
Sources Pakistan Banking Council.
7.      The NCBIs  boards and chief executives are appointed by GOP.  In
recent years, care has been taken, where possible, to maintain continuity of



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
adopted different administrative structures. Some are cuite centrally
managed while others are significantly decentralized. Some emphasize foreign
trade activities, others domestic operations. These different management
styles, operational divergence, and traditionally different clientele have
made for diversity and healthy competition within the system. Three of the
five banks--Habib, National, and United--are much more important in terms of
the volume of their operations and their impact on the economy. Of the
remaining two--Allied and Muslim--the latter is more aggressive and
efficient. Allied is the smallest accounting for about 5X of the operations
of the NCBs. Table 3 presents the situation from 1983 to 1985.
Table 3: COMPARATIVE POSITION OF THE NCBs
Capital                                                    Net
and Reserves          Deposits          Advances            Profit
(R----------------.(s billion)--    --(Rs million)-
1983 1984 1985   1983  1984  1985  1983  1984  1985  1983 1984  1985
Habib Bank      1.9  2.2  2.8   55.0  62.0  70.7  31.6  35.7  41.2   351  328   640
United Bank    1.0  1.3  1.5   41.5  44.6  48.9  25.0  26.4  31.1   149  338   206
National Bank  1.0  1.1  1.3   40.6  44.4  52.5  19.0  21.5  26.9   143  196   232
Muslim Bank    0.5  0.5  0.7   15.7  16.9  19.9  10.9  11.2  11.9    88   88   146
Allied Bank    0.2  0.2  0.2    6.9   7.2   8.0   5.1   5.5   5.4    12   12          6
Total           4.6  5.3  6.5  159.7 175.1 200.0  91.6 100.3 116.5   743  962 1,230
Source:  Grindlays Bank, June 30, 1984 and Pakistan Banking Council.
8.      The PBC plays an important coordinating role for the NCS system.  It
is also the communications link with the Government, enabling the banks to
put before the Government proposals on banking legislations and regulations.
Also, the PBC formulates policy guidelines for the banks, reviews their
performance, determines areas where corrective measures are needed and
provides trained staff through a central training and career development
system. The PBC, however, has no legislative or regulatory functions. The
first remain with GOP authorities and are essentially contained in the
Banking Companies Ordinance of 1962. The latter is the jurisdiction of the
SBP which establishes reserve requirements, credit controls and allocations,
interest rate levels and structure, and guidelines on banking fees.
Recent Performance
9.      DeDosits.  Overall deposits have doubled from Rs 66.0 billion in 1980
to Rs 130.9 Aillion in 1985. Traditionally the banks have tapped personal
savings, and have expanded the base of personal deposits from 64% of the
total in 1978 to 72% in 1983.  The importance of government deposits has been
reduced from 7.5% tn 5%.  Corporate savings have remained relatively constant
at about 17%.  Other deposits from foreign and domestic constituents have
deciined in importance, down from 10.5% to 6%.



-4'I-
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
Table 4: COMMERCIAL BANKS - DEPOSITS
(Rs billion)
z
(March) (t!arch)
1980   1981   1982    1983    1984    1985    1985
Demand Deposits         22.8   27.2   28.3    34.0    33.9    32.0         24
Savings Deposits        26.8   30.0   33.1    42.8    51.6    58.6        45
Fixed Deposits under
One Year                8.2    8.4   10.3    13.8    15.9    16.5         13
Fixed Deposits over
One Year                8.2    9.7   12.4    18.1    22.2    23.8         IR
Total Deposits          66.0   75.3   84.1   108.7   123.6   130.9    100
====  ~===   ==---   =   .   =====  a=====       ==
Source: Pakistan Banking Council.
10.     The second important development is the savings promotion effort of
the commercial banks in recent years to reach larger numbers of depositors,
even in the most remote areas of the country. Between 1980 and 1984 the
number of depositors increased from 15.4 million to 20.2 million while the
average size of account rose from Rs 4,550 to Rs 6,100. The growth in
deposits was achieved without significant increases in average interest
rates, still around 6.25%, but rather through branching and marketing
efforts.
11.     The third important development is the growing importance of fixed
term deposits, which have tripled by between 1980 and 1985. Noteworthy is
the development of time deposits of over five years maturity, which since
their introduction in the third quarter of 1981 have grown to Rs 10.4 billion
or 8.6% of total deposits as of March 31, 1984.
12.     With respect to other resources, the noticeable variations are in
increased borrowings from the SBP representing greater use of specialized
credit lines, particularly for export financing. In 1978, borrowings from
SBP represented 8.3% of total resources while in 1984 they stood at around
13%. The other important change in the resource base of the commercial
banking system is the continuous growth of the capital and reserve accounts,
and the important equity contribution to the NCBs by GOP during 1981. While
in 1978 capital and reserves of the system stood at only Rs 1.9 billion, in
1983 this increased to Rs 5.3 billion due to an increase in paid-in capital
subscribed by GOP and SBP. The NCBs have been allowed to strengthen their
capital by retaining profits after tax; in the past they were required to
remit all profit to the Government. An important improvement has taken place
in the capital/deposit ratio, increasing the stability of the system and of
individual banks. As a result, the combined profits of five NCBs increased
from Rs 150 million in 1975 to Rs 1,230 million in 1985 (Table 1).
13.     Advances.  Bank credit grew at an even faster rate than depositst
reflecting greater use of SBP's refinance credit lines, and some relaxation
of Credit ceilings by the State Bank. In 1978, total credit was 69.7% of



-43-
ANNEX 2
Page  6 of 9
bank deposits, while in 1982 it constituted 78.4%. Under the credit alloca-
tion guidelines issued by the SBP, the expansion of credit was directed to
different sectors of the economy in about the same proportion as in previous
years. The following table compares the commercial banks' portfolio by
sector between 1978 and 1982.
Table 5: COMMERCIAL BANKS ADVANCES BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
(Rs billion)
As of June 30                1978   1979   1980   1981   1982       _
Agriculture, forestry,
hunting and fishing         2.7    2.6    3.5    4.3    3.7    6.3
Mining and quarrying          0.2    0.3    0.5    0.7    0.5    0.9
Manufacturing                13.0   16.1   16.9   20.6   21.1   36.8
Construction                  1.0    0.9    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.9
Electricity, gas, water,
and sanitary services       0.3    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.9
Commerce                      9.0   11.0   12.9   13.9   16.1   28.1
Transport, storage and
communication               0.5    0.5    1.1    0.7    0.7    1.2
Services                      2.9    3.9    6.3    7.5    8.5   14.8
Others                        2.5    3.7    4.2    4.8    5.1    9.1
Total                        32.1   38.7   46.7   54.3   57.4  100.0
===   S=        5 i:              =_
Source: SBP 1983/1984 Annual Report.
14.     These figures show the continued predominance of the manufacturing
sector with 37% of bank credit. The second most important sector is
commerce, absorbing 28% of bank advances. Given the marked improvement in
industrial investment since 1982, the proportion of credit of the manufactur-
ing sector is estimated to have increased to around 40x.  The figures show
somewhat uneven treatment of the manufacturing sector and an expansion rate
slightly below the overall expansion of credit. This is due to the reduction
in government investment in manufacturing in the past three years because of
its policy of limiting public sector and promoting private investment in the
sector. The slack was picked up by the private sector only gradually, and
even then the credit demand from private industrialists did not compensate
for the very large drop in demand by public industrial enterprises.
15.     Profitability.  With the measures taken by GOP and PBC since 1979,
the overall performance and profitability of NCBs have improved considerably.
The combined net profit after tax of the NCBs increased from Rs 150 million
in 1978 to Rs 1,230 million in 1985, at an annual compound growth rate of
36%. However, profitability remains relatively low and the performance among
NCBs is mixed. As of December 31, 1985, Habib Bank's profits before taxes
were Rs 640 million, or 52% of the combined profits of the NCBs although its
total assets were 37% of the NCBs. In 1985, return on total assets ranged
from 0.91% for HBL to 0.28X for Allied Bank, the smallest NCE. All NCBs, to
a certain extent, continue to suffer from the problem of overstaffing due to
strong labor unions. In 1985, personnel cost as a percentage of deposits of
NCBs averaged 1.89% ranging from a low of 1.63X for HBL to a high of 3.03X



-44-
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
for Allied Bank. The relatively low profitability of NCBs is caused mainly
by: GOP's monetary policy of maintaining very high reserve requirements (35%
of deposits); the credit allocation policy, which directs NCBs to finance
priority sectors at low interest rates; a large network of low profit
branches in rural areas; non-payment of interest on loans to the public
sector; and general overstaffi'ng.
Table 6: EARNINGS OF NCBs
(Rs million)
1985
Share   % Increase
1981  1982  1983   1984   1985      X     over 1981
NBP       31    99   143    196    232    19.0        648
HBL      122   273   351    328    640    52.0        425
UBL       43    29   149    338    206    16.5        379
MCB       33    44    88      88    146    12.0       342
ABL        6     5    12      12      6      0.5        0
Total    235   450   743    962  1,230   100.0        423
un   -=    2=5= inrn    u        uu-
Source:  Crindlays Bank, June 30, 1984 and PBC.
Role in Industrial Financing
16.     Since 1979, the SBP has assigned to the NCBs a role in industrial
term lending by giving them specific targets. These allocations, if not
utilized, cannot be channeled to other credit operations by the banks.
Initially, there was some reluctance by the banks to participate in the
scheme.  This reluctance was due to the low interest spread provided by term
loans. By regulation these loans could only earn 11 p.a. while working
capital loans normally earn 14X. Recently, with the introduction of
Participation Term Certificates, the disincentive was rerdoved partially.
Also, the more innovative banks found ways to make these operations more
profitable by insisting on collateral business such as letters of credit,
working capital loans, collections and foreign exchange.
17.     Term lending by NCBs has increased sharply since FY83 (Table 7).
With Islamization of the banking system and the use of Term Finance
Certificatest returns on term lending have increased making it more
attractive. In 1985, it is expected that actual disbursements of term loans
to industry during the year will increase further to Rs 2.0 billion. The
rapid growth of this activity was also aided by the partial liberalization of
interest rates through the adoption of Participation Term Certificates. At
the same time, the banks have sought and SBP has allowed the acceptance of
time deposits with fixed maturities of five on more years, which have gained
acceptance rapidly without significant cost increases. This factor has
reduced the risk of conversion of short term deposits into longer term loans.



-45-
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
Table 7: NCBs, FIXED INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
ALLOCATIONS AND UTILIZATION
(Re million)
Allocation      Utilization /a      Percent
FY81                576               387              67
FY82               1,736            1,374              79
FY83               1,579            1,387              88
FY84               1,837            1,604              87
FY85              2,195             1,716 /b           78
FY86              2,059               845 Th           41 /c
1a Net of repayments.
ii; As of June 13, 1985.
Tc Six months only.
Sources SBP.
Prospects
18.     The development of the commercial banking sector in Pakistan will be
shaped by at least five major factors. The first is the overall performance
of the Pakistan economy and the demands that the different sectors will make
on the banks for funds and services. While the prospects are for continued
growtht internal and external pressures on the economy have increased and
need to be addressed through structural adjustments to ensure continued
growth. The second factor has to do with the future savings rate; Pakistan
presently has a relatively low rate of domestic savings at 7T of national
income. There is scope for increased savings particularly as income
increases, becomes more widely distributed and inflation is checked. The
third factor is the introduction of Islamic concepts and practices into the
economy, particularly in the financial sector, and the related issue of the
interest rate structure as a result of Islamisation. Initial experience has
shown that Islamization thus far has resulted in gradual freeing up of inter-
est rates. Under a full Islamic banking system, scope exists for increasing
bank deposits through attractive yields and for the banks to allocate these
resources to credit demands on a profitable basis.
19.     The fourth factor consists of the policies that SBP will pursue,
particularly with respect to reserve requirements, credit ceilings, credit
allocation, and other regulatory functions. Recent experience and statements
point to the likelihood of relatively flexible and judicious management of
the system with a preference to deregulate as needed. An example is the
recent freeing up of service charges which banks can now charge on a competi-
tive basis. The interest rate ceiling on term loans has been removed while
that on short term working capital loans has been increased from 15% to 20S.
These policy initiatives will allow the system to develop in accordance with
the needs of the economy and permit it greater internal efficiency. The last
factor is the role of PBC in guiding and coordinating the ICBs' activities.
While the banks' improving performance could justify greater independence and



-46-
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
competition among themselves, PBC's coordinating role would continue to be
needed, particularly in new areas of activity, such as use of Islamic
instruments, leasing and industrial term financing. Provided that PBC would
continue its soft-glove approach which it has utilized up to now with much
success there does not seem to be a practical contradiction between NCB
independence and PBC coordination. However, the relationship between the PBC
and the banks will continue to depend much on personalities involved and, to
that extent, is uncertain.
20.     The two important policy issues relevant to the commercial banking
system are: the levels and structure of interest rates, and the credit
allocation system. SBP is charged with regulating both. In the past, the
levels and structure of the interest rate have been utilized by SBP to pursue
two contradictory objectives: increase the rate of savings through attractive
deposit rates and promote investment in priority sectors and activities by
offering low cost financing through the commercial banks. The result has
been a crossed interest rate structure which had to be subsidized either by
GOP, the non-preferred sectors or the banks. The financial authorities had
recognized the problem but were nevertheless reluctant to address this issue
directly and publicly in view of GOP's preoccupation with the Islamization of
the economy. With the adoption of Islamic instruments both for deposits and
loans, some freeing of interest rates have occurred. However, some distor-
tions continue to exist; the distortions related to SSI lending are being
addressed under SI III; an annual review of interest rates required under
this project and IIC II will be used to monitor continued rationalization of
the interest rate structure by Covernment.
21.     The banking system in Pakistan has traditionally been subject to
quantitative credit controls. These have taken the form of credit ceilings
and credit allocation measures. GOP has maintained these controls because of
the interest rate distortions of the recent past; with the elimination of
interest rates, credit management by quantitative allocation will continue to
be used until the new Islamic system is fully introduced, GOP argues that
this policy is in keeping with the needs of a developing economy with limited
resources and the need for maintaining fiscal stability. SBP monitors credit
limits and allocations closely and re-adjusts them periodically. While the
system appears rigid and cumbersome, so far it has been managed quite
flexibly with little rigidities in practice.



-47-
AMEX 3
PAKI STAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
~~~~~{I(S$ million)
Bank     Bank                       Private
Component                        Foreigp  Local  GCO   GOP    PCI    Sector  Total
A. SSI Subloan Component         45.0       5.0   7.5   -    39.0      65.0   161.5
B. Technicai Aest. for PCI         -         -    2.0          0.5       -       2.5
C. Export Houses
Subloans                     4.0       -    -      -     2.5       3.0     9.5
Training                      -         -    0.4   -       -       0.4     0.8
Marketing Activities          -         -    0.3   -       -       0.3     0.6
Market Research,
Planning and Development   -         -    0.3   -       -        0.3     0.6
Administrative Cost           -         -     -   0.5     -         -      0.5
Subtotal                  4.0       -    1.0  0.5    2.5        4.0    12.0
D. Technology Transfer
Technology Transfer Fund      -         -    1.5   -      -        1.5     3.0
Subtotal                   -        -    1.5   -       -        1.5     3.0
S. SSI Statistics
Overseas Training             -         -    0.1   -      -         -      0.1
Equipment & Vehicles          -        -    0.3  0.2      -         -      0.5
Staff Costs                   -        -      -   0.3     -         -      0.3
Consultants                   -        -    0.1   -       -         -      0.1
Subtotal                   -        -    0.5  0.5      -         -      1.0
GRAND TOTAL                      49.0       5.0  12.5  1.0   42.0      70.5   180.0
==        =5  u=u-  =5=  :u=r=   ~=           ==



-48-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Draft Policy and Strategy Statement of the Small Industries Department of PBC
I. BACKGROUND
1.      The Government of Pakistan is negotiating with the World Bank a Loan
of US$54 million for the development of the small industrial sector in
Pakistan. This is in continuation of the two earlier agreements signed by
the Government of Pakistan with IDA on April 24, 1981 and July 10, 1984 in
respect of Credits of US$30 million and US$50 million, respectively.
2.      The World Bank Loan of US$54 million and a grant from the Government
of the Nettherlands of about US$12.5 million for SSI III would consist of the
following components: (a) subleans for fixed investment and permanent work-
ing capitml for SSI subprojects (US$57.5 million); (b) technical assistance
for the financial institutions to train staff and improve operating systems
and procedures with emphasis on their branch network (U8$2 million); (c)
technical and financial assistance for the establishment of export houses
(US$5 million); (d) a technology transfer program to promote technology and
productivity improvements in private industry (US$1.5 million); and Ce)
technical assistance to the Federal Bureau of Statistics to improve SSI data
collection, processing and analysis (US$0.5 million). PBC would be involved
in the implementation of the first three components.
II. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
3.      Under the proposed arrangements, the six participating banks, namely
Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited, Habib Bank Limited, Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan, Muslim Commercial Bank Limited, National Bank of Pakistan
and United Bank Limited, will be responsible for subproject appraisal,
relending, supervision and collection. Each participating credit institution
(PCI) will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement vith the Government of
Pakistan directly. The Pakistan Banking Council will sign an administrative
agreement with the Government of Pakistan for the coordination and monitoring
of the project. The PCIs will disburse the approved subloans to the sub-
borrowers and claim refinance of 40S of the subloans from Pakistan Banking
Council, the administrator of the credit, who will be responsible for review
of subloan applications submitted by the participating banks, refinancing and
administering part of the Technical Assistance Component (para 2(b) above).
III. OBJECTIVES
4.     'the main objectives of the SSI II are to:  (a) promote the develop-
ment of, 8I units, preferably those which are export oriented and/or are
effici''t in Import substitution by providing finances for long-term
requi-0*ent; (b) increaso the availability of development credit for SSI
units; (c) identify and assist those subsectors which have immediate growth
potential; (d) promote development of 551 unwits based on local raw materials;
(e) suggest policy reform in order to encourage greater efficiency in the $88
sector; (f) provide special assistance in promoting 8SI projects in under-



-49-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
developed areas; (g) provide finances to SSI subprojects with high financial
and economic returns; (h) strengthen the financial institutions involved in
SSI lending through technical assistance, training and improvement of operat-
ing systems and procedures; (i) promote a financial environment which
encourages the financial institutions to expand their SSI lending by allowing
them to mobilize appropriate resources and operate profitably on their SSI
portfolio; (j) establish a stronger export marketing infrastructure through
the promotion of Export Houses; (k) improve efficiency of industrial units
through a program of technology transfer; and (1) improve the accuracy and
reliability of SSI statistics for policy and development strategy
formulation.
5.      These objectives will be achieved by providing credit speedily to SSI
units based on appraisal and monitoring of the end-use. Necessary publicity
for the use of this credit will be made through the branch network of the
participating banks, Chambers of Commerce and Industry and local Trade
Associations, Small Industries Corporations, Export Promotion Bureau and the
local media. SSI Cells already established at the Circle Offices will be of
immense help. The number of designated branches of the participating banks
will be more than those designated in the preceding credits. The operating
system of the participating banks will be improved through training of staff
concerned and upgrading their knowledge for appraisal and supervision of
development lending.
IV. GENERAL POLICtES AND GUIDELINES
6.      Size of the Subloan.  The maximum loan limit under the credit will be
as under: (a) the subloan allowed would not exceed Rs 10.0 million; (b)
subloans under the credit will be provided for the development of small scale
industries up to a maximum debt-equity ratio of 70:30 in the total cost of
the project. The entrepreneur will provide funds from his own resources for
meeting at least 301 of the total cost of the project; and (c) refinance to
the extent of 60X of the total subloan amount approved will be provided by
the World Bank to the participating banks and the remaining 401 of the sub-
loan amount shall be met by the bank concerned from its own resources.
7.      Purpose of the Subloan.  The loan can be utilized for any of the
following purposes for the establishment of new small industrial units and
for balancing, modernization, replacement or expansion of existing small
industrial units:  (a) construction of factory buildings (not to exceed 25S
of the loan amount); (b) purchase of machinery and equipment; (c) machinery
installation cost; and (d) permanent working capital requirements.
8.      The permanent working capital will be provided only when the loan is
required for financing of fixed cost also. The banks may also consider
financing of the expenditure already incurred in respect of the above items
on reimbursement basis provided the same has been made within 120 days of the
date the application reaches PBC.
9.      Utilization.  The scheme is expected to start on or about September
1987. At least 501 of the credit will be utilized for subloans of less than
as 7.5 million. The participating banks will aim at equitable distribution
of credit funds among the provinces and other areas. Notional lending tar-
gets for each of the provinces will be as under:



-50-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
Punjab               451
Sind                  27X
NW"F                  20X
Baluchistan            8Z
10.     The credit will be notionally allocated to the participating banks in
the following ratios. However, utilization will be on a first come first
word basis.
Habib Bank Limited                                     20.0%
National Bank of Pakistan                              20.01
United Bank Limited                                    20.01
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan                20.0X
Muslim Commercial Bank Limited                         12.5X
Allied Bank of Pakistan, Ltd.                           7.51
11.     Eligibility Criteria.  A small enterprise which is privately-owned
and is engaged or is intending to engage in manufacturing, repair,
processing, industrial services or agro-processing will be eligible for
financing under the credit. Privately-owned hospitals/clinics will also be
eligible for financing subject to a maximum ceiling of 101 of the total World
Bank loan.
12.     An eligible subproject will involve the establishment, expansion
and/or BMR proposals of an eligible enterprise which are financially and
economically viable and meet the following criteria: (a) the fixed assets of
the enterprise (excluding land and buildings) valued at original cost should
not exceed Rs 10 million before the granting of the loan; (b) the incremental
fixed cost per job will not normally exceed Rs 200,000; (c) working capital
financing would be allowed only as part of a fixed investment subloan and
only for permanent working capital needs; (d) a minimum of 30X of subproject
costs will be provided by the sponsor in the form of equity; (e) the maximum
subloan allowed would be Rs 10 million; (f) at least 501 of the credit will
be for subloans of less than Rs 2.5 million to maintain credit access for
smaller subprojects; (g) the loan will not be allowed for any of the follow-
ing purposes: purchase of land; purchase of locally-reconditioned or second-
hand machinery; purchase of an existing unit (change of ownership); and
payment of Government taxes, duties, etc.; and (h) preference will be given
to labor-intensive projects. In case of new projects, cost of fixed assets
(excluding cost of land) per full time job created should not exceed Rs 0.20
million. For existing projects, incremental cost of fixed assets (excluding
cost of land) per additional full time job created should not exceed Rs 0.20
million.
13.     In respect of government policy the following guidelines will be
followed:
(a)  Projects included in the restricted list.  Prior approval of the
Ministry of Industries/Investment Promotion Bureau is required for
setting up projects which are included in the list of restricted
industries. The prospective sponsors of projects will, therefore,
before approaching the participating banks for financial assistance



-51-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
under the credit, obtain approval of the Ministry of
Industries/Investment Promotion Bureau.
(b) Projects included in the negative list. For setting up an industrial
unit which is included in the negative list of the Provincial
Government(s) for location and sponsorship, necessary approval will
be required. However, for proposals recommended by the Small
Industries Corporations/Boards, such approval will not be required.
(c) Projects using imported second hand machinery. Prior approval of
the Ministry of Industries/Investment Promotion Bureau will be
required for setting up projects involving import of second hand
machinery except under NRI. In the case of machinery imported under
NRI, financial assistance will be available only for civil works,
purchase of other assets and permanent working capital.
(d) Projects using imported raw material. Prior approval of the Ministry
of Industries/Investment Promotion Bureau will be required for set-
ting up projects in which more than 60% of the raw material is
imported provided the value of such import exceeds 20X of the total
investment in fixed assets.
V. APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL
14.     Procedure.  The following procedures will be followed:
(a) the participating banks have already designated their main
branches/Circle Offices/Zonal and Regional Offices all over the
country for receipt of loan applications under the credit.
Prescribed application forms for loan under the credit can be
obtained free of cost from any of these branches/offices;
(b) the prescribed application forms duly filled in will be submitted
to any of the designated branches/offices of the participating banks
convenient to the intending borrower;
(c)  the financial, economic, technical, managerial and marketing aspects
of the proposal will be evaluated by the participating banks;
(d) the participating banks will scrutinize the proposal thoroughly and
after satisfying itself about the eligibility and viability of the
project will sanction the subloan; and
(e) the participating banks will disburse the approved subloan to the
subborrowers and claim refinance of 60% of the subloan from Pakistan
Banking Council who will be responsible for review of subloan
applications submitted by the participating banks for refinancing.
15.     Lending Rate                    For Subloans up to   For Subloans above
Rs 2.5 million       Rs 2.5 million
World Bank to GOP                     variable              variable
On-lending rate to PCIs                9.00X                10.00X
On-lending rate to subborrowers       14.00X                14.00%



-52-
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
16.     Amortization Period
(a) For repayment to GOP by              12 years inclusive of 5 years
participating banks                  grace period.
(b) For repayment to banks by            Minimum 3 years to maximum
borrowers                            10 years, inclusive of up to
two years' grace period in
equal quarterly/half-yearly
installments of the
principal amount and the
interest accruing thereon.
17.     The participating banks shall repay the principal amount of the loan
made available by Government of Pakistan in such instalments according to the
provisions of the Loan and Subsidiary Loan Agreements. However, if any bank
defaults in the performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement,
GOP shall inform the World Rank of such default. After review of the circum-
stances involved, the GOP may declare the bank concerned ineligible to par-
ticipate in further financing under the credit and shall declare the whole
of the outstanding balance of the loan at the time of default to be repayable
immediately. Upon such declaration being made, the bank shall repay to GOP
the amount required to be repaid by the declaration.
18.     Responsibility/Risk for Repayment of Subloan.  The respective par-
ticipating banks will bear the credit risk of all subloans regardless of
source.
i1.     Exchange  Risk.  Full exchange risk will be borne by the Government of
Pakistan. Foreign exchange payment on import of machinery/equipment, etc.
will be denominated in Pak Rupees by conversion of the bill of exchange
amount at the prevalent rate of exchange.
20.     Bank Charges.  The participating banks will be allowed to charge the
following from the subborrowers:
(a)  Exchange and commission  : According to their normal practice
(b)  Project examination fee  :  1/4 of 1X of the approved loan
(c)  Documentation fee         :  1/4 of 1X of the approved loan
(d)  Commitment fee            :  1/4 of .Z p.a. of the undisbursed
amount commencing 3 months after
the date of the sanction letter.
(e)  Monitoring fee            : In accordance with banks' TA/DA Rules.
21.     Security.  The matter of security for the subloan is left to the
discretion of the participating banks. However, the following is
recommended: (a) first mortgage of the entire fixed assets of the subproject
(present and future); and (b) personal guarantees of the directors of a
Limited Company.



-53-
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
22.     Procurement of Machinery.  Machinery/equipment may be procured from
any of the member countries of the World Bank including Switzerland against
cash license from CCI&E. Local machinery will be procured from firms of
repute. The participating banks will ensure that:
(a) the goods and services procured locally out of the proceeds of a
subloan are purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, due
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
deliveryt quality, reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts thereof; and
(b) goods and services procured outside the territory of Pakistan and
estimated to cost US$50,000 or more per item or US$100,000 or more
per contract shall be procured through international shopping on the
basis of at least three competitive price quotations.
23.     Recycling of "redit Funds.  Any funds repaid by the subborrowers but
not yet due for repayment to GOP may be utilized by the participating banks
in granting loans to small industries meeting the eligibility criteria under
the Loan.
VI. PROCEDURE FOR PBC'S APPROVAL OF PROPOSALS FOR SUBWLOANS AND PROVISION OF
REFINANCE
24.     All disbursements for foreign or local expenditures made by the
participating banks will be financed by the Covernment of Pakistan through
Pakistan Banking Council, the administrator of the Credit, up to 60% of the
subloan amount. In order to obtain refinance from Pakistan Banking Council,
the participating bank will submit to it the following: (a) a copy of the
appraisal of the subproject to which the subloan has been provided; (b)
evidence of a corresponding disbursement by the participating bank in respect
of the subloan for which the authorization has been sought; (c) a certificate
to the effect that the provincial government's approval/clearance in respect
of the project, if required, has been obtained; (d) a certification by the
participating bank that procurement procedures referred to in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement have been followed. PBC will not issue authorization for
disbursement of funds by way of refinance for expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of a subloan if such expenditures shall have been made more than
120 days prior to the receipt by PBC of the application for approval of
refinancing of the said subloan; and (e) the disbursement of refinance by PBC
to the participating banks will be governed by the above procedure and provi-
sions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Loan Agreement.
25.     Revolving Fund.  Under the institutional arrangements for the
proposed World Bank Loan, the Pakistan Banking Council will have a revolving
fund and the World Bank will advance a sum of US$4 million from the proposed
Loan to create the revolving fund as soon as the Loan is declared effective.
The PBC will usa this fund to accommodate the refinancing needs under the
proposed project. The rationale for maintaining this minimum balance is that
in case of unusual delay in replenishment, this cushion will be used for
meeting the refinancing needs of the participating banks during the interim
period. In the meantime, PBC will provide details of the cases financed to
the World Bank for reimbursement.



-54-
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
26.     Procedure for Obtaining Refinance from the Pakistan Banking Council.
The procedure to be followed for obtaining refinance from the Pakistan
Banking Council on disbursement of a part or whole of a subloan will be as
under:
(a)  The participating banks will send their cases to PBC for refinance on
a fortnightly basis on every alternate Thursday. The request for
refinance shall be accompanied by: (i) a promissory note payable on
demand made in favor of Government of Pakistan in respect of the
amount of the refinance required; (ii) certification by the par-
ticipating bank that the expenditure for which refinance is claimed
as has been made and that appropriate documentation in respect
thereof is retained by the bank; and (iii) a certification by the
bank that procurement procedures referred to in the Loan Agreement
have been followed.
(b)  On receipt of the request from the bank accompanied by the above
mentioned documents, PBC will reimburse the amount within seven days
from the date of receipt of the request at 50% of the subloan amount
to the bank concerned.
27.     Closing Date for Disbursement of Refinance.  Applications for
approval of subloans and requests for reimbursement of funds (refinance)
shall be submitted to Pakistan Banking Council on or before 9/30/1991. The
closing date of the credit will be 12/31/1992.
VII. PARTICIPATING BANKS' LOANING PROCEDURE
28.     Loan Application.  The designated branches will obtain loan applica-
tions from the intending borrowers under the project on the prescribed
application form. The branch manager will ensure that the application form
has been properly filled in and all the requisite information/papers have
been submitted by the applicant. On receipt of the application from the
branches on the prescribed form together with the supporting
information/papers, the officer/ executive in-charge of the SSID in the
Zonal/Circle Offices will evaluate and scrutinize the proposal.
29.     Purpose of the Loan.  Subloans will be utilized for the financing of
enterprises engaged in manufacturing, repair, processing, industrial services
or agro-processing. Preference, however, will be given to those projects in
the private sector which conform to the Government of Pakistan Investment
Schedule having following special features:
(a)  export oriented and/or efficient import substituting projects;
(b)  agro-industries like manufacturing of agricultural implements; and
(c)  industries based on locally available technical know-how, skills,
machinery and spares, and raw materials.
30.     Project Evaluation Criteria.  Only economically viable projects will
be eligible for financing. In determining the viability of projects, the
following criteria, among others, will be kept in view:



-55-
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
(a) Technical Feasibility
Technical feasibility means the suitability of the manufacturing
process, the overall engineering viability of the project and the
availability and sufficiency of raw materials, labor, machinery and
equipment, managerial and technical capability.
(b) Financial Feasibility
(i) Debt/equity ratio. The total long-term debt inclusive of the
proposed World Bank loan should not exceed 70% of the sum of
long-term debt and equity;
(ii) Return on investment. Projected income must show reasonable
return on investment. In case of subprojects involving loan
amounts over Rs 3.0 million, the internal rate of return is to be
calculated while in other cases involving loan amounts up to Rs
3.0 million, the accounting rate of return (net profit divided by
total net assets) for a period of four years is to be calculated;
and
(iii) in addition, production costs as well as proposed selling prices
must be reasonably competitiie with alternative source of supply.
(c) Economic Feasibility
(i) Foreign exchange savings and earnings. The project is to con-
tribute to the reduction of trade imbalance through the manufac-
ture of export-oriented and/or import substitution goods;
(ii) Regional dispersal of investment. The participating banks shall
aim at an equitable distribution of credit funds among the
provinces and other areas;
(iii) Employment generatione Priority is to be given to labor-
intensive projects with Rs 0.20 million project cost per job;
(iv) Equitable distribution of income. To spread the benefits of the
credit to as wide a base as possible;
(v) Conformity with overall economic policies. The project should be
considered in relation to the National Five-Year Development
Plan;
(vi) In addition to the above, the project components should have
complied with the existing requirements of other government
agencies, e.g., pollution control, social security, labor laws,
etc.; and
(vii) For subloans over Rs 3.0 million, the participating banks will be
required to calculate domestic resource cost (DRC) as a measure-
ment of economic viability.



-56-
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
31.     Prior Clearance of Provincial Government.  The participating banks
would ensure that prior clearance of the respective provincial government,
if required, has been obtained regarding the location and sponsorship of the
proposed subproject.
32.     Procurement of Assets-Procedure.  Each participating bank will ensure
that the procurement procedure referred to in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
is followed and the purchase prices quoted are reasonable, competitive and
consistent with the prevailing market prices.
33.     Eligible Expenditures.  The eligible expenditures will be fixed
assets in the form of building, machinery, equipment and working capital.
Working capital will be eligible for financing only for the permanent working
capital portion of a project and only when part of a fixed investment
subloan. This should be considered taking into account the feasibility,
profitability and the optimum production cycle of the project. The permanent
working capital will be payable as part of the fixed loan.
34.     Cost Per Job.  A subproject should be labor-intensive with fixed cost
per job (excluding land) of Rs 0.20 million. The fixed cost per job should
be calculated by dividing the fixed cost with number of jobs created
(employees). Subprojects vith investment cost per job exceeding Rs 0.20
million could be financed on an exception basis, if they are shown to have
strong economic merit in which case a domestic resource cost ratio (DRC)
would be calculated.
35.     The Zonal/Circle Executive will ensure that each subloan application
has been thoroughly scrutinized and is complete in all respects. Thereafter,
for proposals involving loan amounts up to Rs 3.0 million, form SSI-I shall
be filled in by the bank. In case of proposals involving loan amounts of
over Rs 3.0 million, form SSI-II shall be filled in by the bank. This dis-
tinction has been made for the use of Forms SSI-I and SSI-II. There will,
however, be no "Free" and "Above Free" limits. The Zonal/Circle Office will
forward the loan application together with the relevant form (SSI-I or II)
duly filled in and other relevant documents/papers/data to the SSID, Head
Office/Circle Office.
36.     Maintenance of Subloan Proposal Register
(a) At Zonal/Circle Offices. All subloan proposals shall be entered into
a register to be maintained at the Zonal/Circle Offices. Date-wise
full particulars of each loan application will be recorded. This
register will also contain columns to record the disposal instruc-
tions of the Zonal/Circle Executive and the SSID, H.O., concerning a
particular subloan application.
(b) At Head Offices. Likewise, subloan applications received by the
SSID, B.O., will be recorded in register as mentioned above,
processed accordingly and submitted to the Pakistan Banking Council
for obtention of refinance.
37.     Reggment of Subloan.  The subloans are term loans payable in instal-
ments within a period of a minimum 3 years to a maximum 10 years, inclusive
of up to two years grace period. Repayment will start from the data An nor



-57-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
specified schedule drawn at the time of approval of subloan considering the
merits on case to case basis.
38.     Recovery of Interest by the Banks.  The banks will charge interest on
subloans including permanent working capital at 142 on quarterly rests as
usual. The interest to the Government of Pakistan will be paid semi-annually
on June 30 and December 31.
39.*    Security Documentation.  Subloans will be secured against
securities7margins as specified by SBP under Small Loan Scheme considering
the proposal on case to case basis. However, branches will ensure that
subloans will be disbursed only after obtaining the charge documents and
completing all the formalities regarding security.
40.     Operational Procedures - Obtention of Refinance. In terms of the
operational policies and procedures laid down under World Bank Loan, the SSID
of each bank will obtain funds from Government of Pakistan through Pakistan
Banking Council and show it as borrowing under the Vorld Bank Loan. Each
participating bank will maintain a credit register which will contain details
of the refinance obtained from Government of Pakiscan through the Pakistan
Banking Council such as: date of availment, due date of payment of
instalments, due date of payment of interest, and the date of repayment of
the subloan.
41.     Reporting Requirements.  The Pakistan Banking Council, as
administrator of the credit, will monitor the progress of the credit and its
impact on the economy. For this purpose, the participating banks will submit
periodical progress reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and
arrears under the project to PBC at such intervals as would be fixed by it
which, in turn, will consolidate the report for transmittal to the World
Bank. The participating banks will also provide relevant information as per
forms listed below: (a) half yearly report by subborrower (Form PB-1); (b)
half yearly statement showing cumulative position of loan applications (Form
PB-2); (c) half yearly statement of loans approved/disbursed (Form PB-3); (d)
half yearly statement showing the position of loans disbursed (Form PB-4);
(e) half yearly statement showing cumulative position of approvals, disburse-
ments and outstandings (Form PB-5); (f) half yearly statement showing the
collections (Form PB-6); and (g) half yearly statement showing arrearages
(Form PB-7).
42.     Accounts and Audits.  The participating banks will maintain proper
accounts for subloans and documentation on procurement decisions,
disbursements, performance and repayment records. These accounts will be
audited annually according to current practices.
43.     Project Supervision.  The end-use supervision of subprojects financed
under the Loan shall be made by the participating banks. The progress and
operations of the project shall be monitored by the banks through visits
and/or collection of relevant data at regular intervals. In case of failure
or problems faced by the financed projects, the Zonal/Regional Office of the
bank responsible for supervising the subproject shall adopt remedial measures
in consultation with its Read Office.



-58-
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
44.     Mandatory Credit Target and the Credit Ceiling
(a) The refinance obtained by the banks from GOP would be counted as
liability of the bank for purposes of maintenance of statutory cash
reserve and liquid assets.
(b) All subloans to be extended under World Bank Loan for small
industries will be counted towards the credit ceiling, which will
be effected from the date of the grant of the subloan till the date
the banks get reimbursement from the Government of Pakistan.
(c) All subloans extended under the World Bank Loan will be counted
towards the achievement of mandatory credit targets fixed by the SBP.
VIII. SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT OF THE PCIs
45.     The SSI Departments at Head Offices of the participating banks will
hove the following minimum staff:
1.  Head of the Department/Division                   One
2.  Manager SSID-IDA                                  One
3,  Credit Analyst                                    One
4.  In-charge End-Use                                 One
5.  Engineer                                          One
6,  Economist                                         One
7.  Administrative Officer                            One
S.  Others                                            One
The S8I Cell at the Circle Offices will have the following strength of staff
to cope with the work.
1.  Financial Analyst                                 One
2.  Engineer                                          One
46.     Training.  PBC will organize training for the officers of pa:ticipat-
ing banks in SSI project appraisal and supervision methodology. The training
will be conducted locally with the assistance of local training institutions.
In case of senior officers, the training will take the form of overseas
on-the-job training with leading development financial institutions, etc.
The costs of such training will be financed by the World Bank, but local
costs will be borne by the participating banks.
IX.   COORDINATION WITH THE PROVINCIAL SMALL INDUSTRIES CORPORATIONS/BOARD (SIC)
47.     The provincial small industries corporations/board provide technical
assistance to SSI in terms of project identification and promotion, project
preparation, training and extension services.  The participating credit
institutions should take steps to coordinate their $8SI lending activities
with the SICs with a view to assisting their clients who are in need of the
SIC services. At the national level, close coordination between the SICs and
the PCIs would be maintained under the auspices of PBC through regular meet-
ings and exchange of information.



-59-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Draft Policy and Strategy Statement for the Technical Assistance Fund of EPB
Introduction
1.      Pakistan's export sector is highly fragmented with a multitude of
small export companies and high concentration in a few product areas. As a
result, Pakistan's exports have been constrained by an inability to exploit
economies of scale in foreign marketing. Poor marketing practices and inade-
quate commitment to long-term export development have characterized most
export activities. The successful experience of East Asian countries in
developing export houses suggests that a similar strategy, adapted to
Pakistan conditions, can serve as a catalyst in rationalizing and generally
upgrading the export sector. In reference to the Korean Model, for example,
significant differences in the current export environment of both countries
can be identified: (i) Korea exports a wide range of products through a fewer
number of well organized companies; (ii) Korea demonstrates a high degree of
interaction between public and private sectors for export promotion and
between large and small firms through supply and subcontracting arrangements;
and (ii) the Korean private sector is supported by effective and extensive
overseas trade representation by government. Under the Export Development
Loan, the Bank is addressing policy issues related to the export incentive
system and providing assistance in improving the administration of the
government export program. Under the Third Small Industries Project, this TA
component for the promotion of export houses intends to complement these
initiatives on the policy and administrative fronts with efforts to develop
the marketing infrastructure.
Objectives
2.      As a TA component of the Third Small Industries Project, the Bank
would provide a Technical Assistance (TA) Fund for Export Houses in the
amount of US$l million. This would be passed on by GOP to EPB and the par-
ticipating export houses as a grant. The fund wi.l be used by the par-
ticipating export houses for the following purposes:
(a) to train export house executives in effective management and opera-
tions of an export house;
(b) to assist the export houses in market research and promotional
activities aimed at target markets; and
(c) to provide advisory services from successful foreign export houses
for the development of Pakistan's export houses under this scheme.
Technical Assistance Program
3.      Participants.  The Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) will be responsible
for the administration and monitoring of the TA Fund. Both the EPB and the
export houses under the project will require foreign consultancy services to:



-60-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
(i) establish the monitoring system and to train staff of EPB in promoting
export houses and monitoring their performance, including their suppliers;
and (ii) assist the export houses in planning, organization and initial
operations. The TA Funds would ae allocated under the following guidelines:
Amount (USQ)   Consultants
(a) Export Promotion Bureau              60,000      6 months at
US$10,000/month
(b) Export Houses Training              300,000      About 6
and Management Development                     man-months per
export house
(c) Market Research, Market Planning,  300,000       On a project to
project basis
(d) Promotional Activities in           340,000      Project basis
Target Markets
TOTAL                             1,000,000
4.      Training:  The training component would include provisions for con-
sultants (up to a six-month period) for training Pakistani management in the
organization and mar.agement of a trade house, the development and installa-
tion of a corporate plan, and a short training program, where necessary, in a
medium-size foreign general trading company.
5.      Market Research.  Each export house would be assisted in undertaking
market r'search in target markets, developing the correct approach to selling
and providing a basis for new product development and changes in market
demand specification.
6.      Promotional Activities.  These include marketing activities required
by the export companies in their effort to penetrate the U.S. market includ-
ing the costs of trade fair participation, sales literature, advertisement
and public relations.
Procedures
7.      Applications.  All participating export houses are eligible for the
technical assistance. An export house should plan its developmental require-
ments over a three-year period in the form of training, market research and
promotional activities; these plans would be the basis for their application
to EPB for the TA fund.
8.      Appraisal.  The EPB, with the assistance of its project consultant,
would evaluate the proposal submitted by each export house, particularly with
reapect to the feasibility of the firm's development program over a three-
year period and the availability of the counterpart funds of the export house
to cover 50Z of costs. The time frame and the order of magnitude would vary
depending on the export products and the marketing strategy.
9.      Approval.  Applications approved by EPB should be submitted to the
Bank for final authorization. Upon approval by the Bank, a formal letter of



-61-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
approval including the terms of approval and tthe procedure for disbursement
will be issued to the applicant by EPB.
10.     Disbursement.  The disbursement will be administered by EPB.  The
designated disbursement officer of EPB would maintain a separate file for
each export house. Claims for payment against a particular approval will be
made under the signature of the General Manager of an export house and will
be accompanied by supporting documents.
11.     Monitoring.  The project consultant to the EPB would design the
monitoring system, by which the EPB would monitor the performance of each
export house and the TA Fund disbursement. The monitoring system would cover
the following elements: (i) disbursements approved, (ii) disbursements
actually made to each export house, and (iii) export performance and overseas
marketing activities of each export house.  The  PB8's report containing an
analysis of the information generated by the monitoring system would be sent
to the Bank for review, semi-annually.



\K '*-62-
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
DriftE  licy and Strategy Statement for the Technology & Productivity Fund
'' Sckground.  It is generally accepted that the most important
meshdaresJfor improving the technical capabilities of industrial enterprises
in Pakistan are matters of policy. Reduction of protection from external and
ioternal competition is a central policy measure; this would encourage
industrial enterprises to improve technology and productivity to be competi-
tive in product quality and price. Industrial policy reform is being pursued
by GOP with Bank assistance under industrial sector and export development
projects. Complementing policy reform, the purpose of the Technology and
Productivity Fund (TPF) is to develop institutional arrangements which could
support the technical development of industrial enterprises, particularly of
small and medium scale enterprises.
2.      There are two main sources of technology for the industrial sector in
Pakistan: foreign companies outside the country and technical institutions
within the country. While larger firms have access to the technology of
foreign companies, smaller enterprises as a group, find it more difficult and
have to depend on intermediaries, i.e., machinery suppliers and local techni-
cal institutions, to acquire technology. By and large, the marketing of
machinery and equipment (hardware) in the country is reasonably efficient
with the existence of many indentors and agents representing a variety of
foreign suppliers. The weakness lies in the provision of technical services
(software) required to enable industry to master, adapt and improve upon
technology supplied by the hardware.
3.      In Pakistan there are several public sector technical institutions
which are supposed to provide private industry with software for technology
and productivity improvements. The quality of these institutions, however,
is suspect, since they have had little contact with private industry, have
become largely "academic" and supply-oriented and have a poor image among
private industrialists. Moreover, due to permanent constraints in staffing
and funding, many of them have little to offer private industry in terms of
technology updating.
4.      Objective.  To develop alternative sources of technical services in
the private sector and to generate demand-oriented technology and produc-
tivity upgrading proposals, the TPF would provide through the three largest
development finance institutions (DFI), namely NDFC, PICIC and IDBP, partial
grants to private industry for the financing of eligible and viable "technol-
ogy subprojects" such as technical consulting services, technical training
programs and technical collaboration packaging which either introduces new
technology or improves an existing one in private industry.
5.      Elgibility Criteria.  Firms eligible for assistance would be manufac-
turing enterprises which are existing clients of the DFI concerned.  Priority
would be given to firms with past export performance and to companies engaged
in the manufacture of machinery and equipment whether for the local or export
market. Focusing assistance on these enterprises would improve export com-



-63-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
petitiveness of exporting enterprises and would have a broad technology
improvement impact on user industries of the capital goods manufacturers.
6.      Eligible Activities.  Activities which would be eligible for cost
sharing under the TPF would include:
(a) Productivity Consultants and Technicians to assist in analyzing and
implementing: i} cost reduction and quality improvement moves which
firms could make with or without additional fixed investment but
which would increase sales volume with a focus on improving material
handling, processing methods and tooling to increase production
efficiency and achieve consistent quality; (ii) choice of
process/product technology which would be compatible with a sig-
nificant expansion in exports to more demanding markets; (iii) set-
ting up of Productivity Cells with specific work plans and with
measurable achievements on projected yields and quality of
production; or (iv) shared R and D effort to increase production
efficiency.
(b) Supervisor Training. Trainers and materials to develop and implement
supervisor training in formal sessions and on the shop floor to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of supervisory functions,
and enable needed improvements in productivity and technology.
(c)  Design and Product Adaptation.  Consultancy and small material or
capital expenditures to undertake design and product adaptation in
response to identified market opportunities at unit level or through
group cooperation and action.
(d)  Exposure to plants in competing countries and to other factories
operated with foreign collaborators to tap the strong capabilities
among Pakistani manufacturers to adapt appropriate production prac-
tices of others.
(e) Workshops, seminars and firm level work by potential collaborators or
institutions which see potential for expanding under exports, with
such exercises directed at productivity and technology improvement.
(f) Expenditure not exceeding US$25,000 incurred on: (i) acquiring
design/process know-how; (ii) R&D, especially of developmental nature
with a view to adapting product to export demand; (iii) prototype
import; and (iv) jigs, fixtures and tools.
7.       Eligible Expenditures.  Eligible expenditures would be for 50% of
costs of consultancy services, training, productivity studies and small
equipment and materials. The other 50% would have to be contributed by the
applicant enterprise or group of enterprises. Initially, the subprojects
would emphasize assignments which deal with simple and practical technology
and productivity improvements that can be implemented with little or no
investment outlay by clients. Recommendations should be easily implementable
and their benefits and impact readily quantifiable and realizable in the
short term. As experience under the Fund grows, more complex assignments can
be considered.



-64-                               ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
8.      Implementing Arrangements.  The three largest DFIs in Pakistan,
namely NDFC, PICIC and IDBP, would be the implementing agencies for this
component. A technology and productivity fund of US$0.5 million will be
placed in each of the DFIs. The DFIs would be responsible for promoting the
fund, soliciting proposals from private industry, appraising the eligibility
and viability of each subproject, submitting approved proposals for Bank
approval, disbursing the funds and supervising the subprojects. The National
Center for Technology Transfer (NCTT) a government agency under the Ministry
of Science and Technology, would be responsible for a semi-annual operations
audit of the fund, documentation of the experience and a detailed cost and
benefit study at the completion of the project.
9.      Funding.  The Bank would provide US$1.5 million for the technology
and productivity fund. Normally, Bank financing would cover 50% of sub-
project costs with the balance to be paid by the sponsoring private
enterprise. It is estimated that these subprojects would involve about 100
person-months of foreign consultancy at US$10,000 p.m. an,' another 100
person-months of local consultancy at US$5,000 p.m., respectively. However,
cost sharing would be treated initially on a case by case basis and would be
reviewed after some experience has been gained. Out of the US$1.5 million,
the Bank would also provide NCTT with funds to cover its monitoring costs for
three years, estimated to be US$45,000.



-65-
ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Semi Annually      Cumulative
1988   July-December                             2.2                2.2
January-June                             3.8                 6.0
1989   July-December                             5.3                11.3
January-June                             7.1                18.4
1990   July-December                            6.4                24.8
January-June                             5.4                30.2
1991   July-December                            4.4                34.6
January-June                             3.7                38.3
1992   July-December                             3.3               41.6
January-June                             3.2                44.8
1993   July-December                            2.7                47.5
January-June                             2.2                49.7
1994   July-December                             1.6               51.3
January-June                             1.6                52.9
1995   July-December                             1.1               54.0
a/ Assuming Board presentation in June 1987.



-66-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A.  General
1. Feasibility Studies Based on the Agricultural and Mineral Resources
of Baluchistan, IACP, 21 volumes.
2. Study on Small Scale Industries, GOPA Consultants, 11 volumes.
3. Industrial Policy Statement, Ministry of Industry, June 1984.
4. Investment Incentives and Opportunities in Pakistan, Ministry of
Industry, November 1985.
5. National Accounts of Pakistan (Product and Expenditure), PBS,
Nay 1985.
B.  Subloan Component
1. An Analysis of Banks Balance Sheets, Grindlays Bank, 1984.
2. Annual Report, State Bank of Pakistan, 1984-85.
3.  Annual Report, ABL, 1985
4. 38th Annual Report and Accounts, MCB, 1985.
5.  Annual Report, HBL, 1985.
6.  Annual Report, NBP, 1985.
7. Annual Report, UBL, 1985.
8. Annual Report, IDBP, 1985.
9. Government-Sponsored Corporations, Ministry of Finance, 1983-84.
10.  Some Thoughts on Non-Interest Banking in Pakistan - Concepts,
Practices and Possibilities, by Abdul Jabbar Khan, President NBP,
Nay 1985.
11. Growth of Pakistani Banking, MCB, June 20, 1982.
12. Charter for Improving the Performance of Nationalized Commercial
Banks, PBC, unpublished report.
C. Promotion of Export Houses
1. Plans and Performance. Export Promotion Bureau. January 1983 -
June 1985.
2. Pakistan's Export of Principal Commodities for the Year (July-June
1984-85). Export Promotion Bureau, 1986.
3. Import and Export Policy, 1985-86, (Vol. II), Ministry of Commerce,
1985.
5. Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Annual
Report, 1983-84, FPCCI, 1985.
D. Technology Transfer Program
1. National Centre for Technology Transfer, undated.
2. Pakistan Industrial Technical Assistance Centre, undated.
3. Institutional Infrastructure Building of National Centre for
Technology Transfer, NCTT, February 1986.
4. Annual Report 1984-85, PCSIR.



-67-
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
5.  Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, February 1986.
6. PCSIR Processes in Commercial Production, PCSIR, February 5, 1985.
E. Improvement of SSI Sector Statistics
1. Census of Manufacturing Industries, 1980-81. Federal Bureau of
Statistics, January 1984.
2. Survey of Small and Household Manufacturing Industries, 1976-77.
Federal Bureau of Statistics, March 1982.
3. An Informal Note of the Need for Technical Assistance. Federal
Bureau of Statistics. March 20, 1986.



