Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16663
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2839-PAK)
June 2, 1997
Private Sector Development and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
(annual average)
Rs. Per US $ 1.00   US $ Per Rs.1.00
1987               17.399              0.0574
1988               18.003              0.0555
1989              20.541               0.0486
1990               21.707              0.0460
1991               23.801              0.0420
1992               25.083              0.0390
1993              28.107               0.0355
1994              30.567               0.0327
1995               31.643              0.0316
1996               36.079              0.0277
ABBREVIATIONS
ABL          Allied Bank Limited
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CLA          Corporate Law Authority
DFI          Development Finance Institution
FBS          Federal Bureau of Statistics
FSAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSDIP        Financial Sector Deepening & Intermediation Project
GON          Government of Netherlands
GOP          Government of Pakistan
HBL          Habib Bank Limited
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDBP         Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
L/C          Letter of Credit
LMM          Locally Manufactured Machinery
MCB          Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP          National Bank of Pakistan
NCB          Nationalized Commercial Bank
NDFC         National Development Finance Corporation
PBC          Pakistan Banking Council
PCI          Participating Credit Institution
PFI          Participating Financial Institution
PICIC        Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation.
SBP          State Bank of Pakistan
TA           Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEARS
GOP                                      - July I to June 30
HBL, ABL, UBL, NBP, MCB, PICIC           - January 1 to December 31
IDBP and NDFC                            - July 1 to June 30
Vice President           Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director          Fakhruddin Ahrned
Division Chief           Marilou Uy
Task Manager       :     Shideh Hadian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2839-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................i
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................... ......................I
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .I
B.  Achievement Of Objectives                                 .3
C.   Major Factors Affecting The Project                          .6
D.  Project Sustainability                                 .8
E. IBRD's Perforance                                       .8
F.  Borrower's Performance                                   .9
G.  Assessment of Outcome .10
H.  Follow-Up/Future Operations .10
I. Lessons Learned .11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I Summary Of Assessments .12
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3 Project Timetable .14
Table 4   Loan/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual .14
Table 5   Key Indicators For Project Implementation .15
Table 6 Key Indicators For Project Operation .16
Table 7   Studies Included in Project ..................                         16
Table 8A Project Costs ...........................................               16
Table 8B Project Financing ............................................ 17
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits ............      ............................... 17
Table 10  Status of Main Legal Covenants ...........................................  17
Table 11  Compliance With Operational Manual Statements ....................................  17
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............     .............................. 1 8
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................   18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I      Sub-Loan Approvals, Disbursement & Refinanice .................................. 19
Annex II     Sub-Project Characteristics .......................................... 20
Annex III    Sub-Project Geographical & Sub-sectoral Distribution ........................... 21
Annex IV    Analysis of Data by Type of Business, Sub-Loan terms,
Sub-Loan Amount, Value of Total Assets & Fixed Assets ................. 22
Annex V      Employment Analysis .......................................... 23
Annex VI    Sub-Projects Financed Under Teclhnology
and Productivity Fund (TPF) ..................... 24
Annex VII   PCIs Staff Training.............I                              ....... 25
APPENDIX
Appendix A Aide-Memoire .26
Appendix B  Project Review From Borrowers Perspective .31
Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2839-PAK)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Small Scale
Industries Project (Ln. 2839) in the amount of US$54 million IBRD Loan and Netherlands
Guilders (NLG) 25 million Grant from the Netherlands Government for sub-projects and
technical assistance approved on June 16, 1987 and made effective on March 8,1988. The
Dutch Grant was subsequently reduced by canceling NLG 12.88 million from the sub-loan
component of the Grant, as the progress of utilization was slow and funds were otherwise
available under the Loan. The project closed as originally scheduled on December 31, 1995.
Final transaction under the Loan took place on May 6, 1996 with total disbursement of
US$21.47 million at which time a balance of US$32.53 million was canceled. Final
transaction under the Grant took place on August 27, 1996, with total disbursement of NLG
6.21 million at which time a balance of about NLG 6.0 million was canceled.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Ainul Hassan Qureshi, Projects Advisor, Resident Mission
in Pakistan and reviewed by Ms. Marilou Uy (Division Chief) and Mr. Fakhruddin Ahmed
(Project Adviser). The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendix to the
ICR.
3.    Preparation of this ICR was begun after the Bank's final supervision an completion
mission, December 1995/January 1996 by collecting data from the concerned institutions.
Writing of the report started in July, 1996 due to late receipt of the data and other
engagements. The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement,
Supervision Reports and other material in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by preparing the data on different components of the project,
preparing own evaluation and commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2839-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARYl
Introduction
1.           Four Bank Loans and two IDA Credits totaling US$ 278 million had been approved for the
development of small, medium and large scale industries in Pakistan during five years preceding this project
(Table 2). These Loans and Credits provided term loans to manufacturing industries and, through technical
assistance, supported the Government's policy reform programs, and aimed at strengthening and improving
the sector as a whole.
Project Objectives
2.           The Third Small Scale Industry Project (SSI-Ill) aimed at supporting the Government's
efforts to increase the contribution of SSIs to employment, production and exports. The project shifted
financing from IDA to IBRD in the SSI sector, while continuing to provide a line of credit through the
Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) as the Participating Credit Inistitutions (PCIs) with the assistance of
the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) as the apex institution (para. 8). At the time of project
appraisal, the Bank's choice in selecting the PCIs was limited to the NCBs (para. 34). The project also
delivered technical assistance to strengthen the institutions whichi were providing financial and managerial
assistance to the sector. Specifically, the project aimed at: (a) increasing lending to SSIs; (b) strengthening
the financial institutions involved through technical assistance, training and improvement of operating
systems and procedures; (c) developing a strong export marketing infrastructure through promotion of
export houses; (d) improving efficiency of industrial units through technology upgrading programs; and (e)
improving the accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics for policy and development strategy formulation.
The Technical Assistance (TA) components included training for NCB staff; financing of a sector study to
evaluate the impact of various interventions, including the first two Bank-finaniced SSI projects; a
Technology and Productivity Fund (TPF) to upgrade the SSIs' efficiency and quality; and improving the
accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics for future policy and strategy formulation.
3.           SSl-III complemented the Bank's previous industrial sector operations and was in line with
the priority objectives of the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
The project objectives and timing were right for the GOP's policy reforms and development priorities in
Pakistan's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1988-93). The amount of the Loan was realistic when the project was
designed, based on the possible resource gap for SSIs (para. 5). However, contrary to the experience of
rapid disbursement under the first two projects, a seven-year implementationi period was allowed, based on
international experience for similar projects.
4.           The Government of the Netherlands (GON) provided NLG 25 million (about US$12.5
million) as grant under the same project, of which NLG 10 million was for TA and the remainder for
subloans. The TA part of the grant was allocated to: (a) TPF for disbursement on a matching grant basis to
Provides cross-references to paragraphs from Part I of fCR.



- ii-
eligible private industrial units for approved technology and productivity subprojects; (b) training of PCI
staff and consultancy; (c) promotion of export houses; and (d) improvinig small industry statistics through
assistance to the Federal Bureau of Statistics and a sector study. Thus. with thle Bank Loan of US$ 54
million, the total amount available under the project was US$66.5 million. However, after disbursement of
NLG 2.1 million under the Dutch grant, GON canceled the remaininlg NLG 12.9 millioni under the subloan
component due to slow implementation and because other funds were available under the Bank Loan. The
allocation for the TA remained unaffected.
Implementation Experience
5.            SSI-III project became effective before SSI-11 Credit had been fully utilized. Therefore,
SSI-III funds were not utilized until 1991 due to availability of funds uLnder the Second SS1 credit line.
Disbursements under SSI-II had also slowed because of competition from the Government's subsidized
credit programs (e.g., locally manufactured machinery) and adverse economic conditionls (paras. IS and 16).
6.           In late 1980s, a combination of adverse domestic and external factors resulted in a decline
in Pakistan's growth rate to about 4 % and led to sluggish industrial investment activities, in particular in
the textile industry. Adverse weather conditions and a viral attack on the cotton crop resulted in decline in
wheat harvest and cotton crop failure. Bad cotton crops for three consecutive years (1992-1994) resulted in
a critical shortage of cotton, more than 100 percent increase in prices, and slow down activities in the textile
industry. Economic recession in major markets for Pakistani exports and intenisified competition from its
trading competitors were added to the country's domestic problems. The political turbulence in 1993 and
later the law and order situation in Sind Province, particularly Karachi, adversely affected economic
activities in general and the performance of the industrial sector in particular. Most of the industrial units,
and particularly those in the textile sector, faced liquidity problems and suffered losses, and many closed
down. Implementation of all the project components, therefore, proceeded slowly (para. 29).
7.            Due to slow progress, the project was restructured in 1992/93 and its implementation
commernced in September 1993. The delay of about two years was due to GOP's extended review of
elements of restructuring, particularly, increase in the on-lending rate to the sub-borrower and the lengthy
procedure for amending Loan Agreement (paras. 18 and 46). The revised allocation of funds and changes in
the terms and conditions were: (a) US$4 million of Bank fuLnds for export house development subprojects
was reallocated to the subloan component, increasing it to US$54 million; (b) the rate of interest from GOP
to the PCIs was increased from 9.25 percent to 12 percent, based on the Treasury Bill rate, and the interest
rate applicable to on-lending by the PCIs to sub-borrowers was increased to a minimum of 16 percent and a
maximum of 18 percent; (c) the maximum subloan amount was increased to US$600,000, denominated in
dollars instead of Rupees, but 50 percent of the subloans were to have been less than US$300,000; (d) the
maximum percentage of a subloan which could be used for buildings was 25 percent except for hospitals,
clinics, hotels etc., which had a maximum of 50 percent; (e) amortization periods were set at a minimum 5
years and maximum 10 years, including a maximum of 2 years grace; (f) subloans which lhad been approved
but remained entirely initialized for 12 months from the date of sanctioni would automatically be canceled;
(g) PCIs could use the State Bank of Pakistan's credit line for locally manufactured machinlery for co-
financing, instead of using their own funds; and (h) the maximum investmenit per job was doubled to PRs
400,000 (para. 18).
8.            Four main issues impaired project implementation: (a) the chanige of the apex institution
from Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) to IDBP due to inability of the forner to handle project funds under
its charter (revised under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)); (b) the low subloan recovery rates
and high level of infection of the NCB's portfolio of arrears; (c) competition from cheaper and simpler credit
lines from State Bank of Pakistan (SBP); and (d) competition from an Asian Development Bank (ADB)



- II -
credit line which had similar terms but greater flexibility in application. Due to unsatisfactory performance
of IDBP as the apex agency, the Bank agreed to the appointment of a consulting firm finianced under the
project to help IDBP in its apex functions. This firm worked for two years, ulltil the project closed, and its
performance was mixed. While they did some useful work on project promotion, their record keeping of
subproject processing at the PCIs could have been better. The NCBs did not properly appraise and monitor
the SSI sub-loans and therefore had recovery problems. The Bank took actions to address the problem of
non-performing loans. It suspended further commitments to four of the five NCBs under the SSI-IlI Project
because of low recovery rates for subloans provided under SSI-II and SSI-I. The suspension of the NCBs'
participation, which happened during implementation of SSI-III forced some of the PFIs to improve their
recovery rates somewhat. However, only Allied Bank succeeded in regaining participation after being
suspended for about two years (paras. 25 and 26). Muslim Commercial Bank withdrew from the Project
after privatization (para. 38).
9.            The Bank received annual audit and quarterly project progress reports only after
considerable delay. Although the NCBs complied with the auditing and accounting covenants defined under
the Loan Agreement, their financial statements were never audited in accordance with internationally
accepted auditing standards. Therefore, the accounts did not truly reflect weaknesses in the NCBs' financial
performance. The Bank introduced prudential regulations through SBP under FSAL (paras. 7 and 15).
However, under FSAL, the NCBs were not bound to issuinlg their formal anllual reports in accordance with
these regulations. Likewise, IDBP did not forward the audit reports of the Statements of Expenditures
within the time limits specified in the Loan Agreement (para. 24).
Results and Performance
10.          The Loan was only 40 percent utilized by the closing date of December 31, 1995. The
project closed with an undisbursed balance of US$32.53 million whichi was canceled. Compared to
quantitative lending objectives set at appraisal, the project may be viewed as unsuccessful. However, the
development objectives were met to some extent and the NCBs were relatively successful in committing and
disbursing the funds to SSIs. Thus, there was improved access to institutional credit by SSIs, employment
generation, capital formation, and improved SSI statistics. Many of the SSIs improved their technology
through access to the Dutch Grant (para. 22). The reduced investmenit amount (about US$85 million actual
vs. US$170 million planned) created about 15,000 jobs throughi 267 sub-projects against 28,000 estimated at
appraisal. Twenty-four percent of the subprojects were in the textile sector, accounltilng for 32 percent of
total investment. Average investment size over the 267 subprojects finaniced was PRs 9 million, and 78
percent of the subprojects were new. The NCBs performed poorly in terms of loan recovery rates. The
failure rate increased as 60 percent of the subprojects had gone into arrears, excludinig 4 percent of those
which had been closed down. Apart from the general situation outside the control of the PCIs and the
sponsors, interviews of sub-borrowers indicated an inadequate level of permanienit working capital due to the
NCBs' inappropriate appraisal standards, lack of monitoring and follow-up supervision from NCBs, delays
in subloan approvals, lengthy and complicated subloan appraisal procedures and lack of support services
(para. 26). Due to the above mentioned implementation performance, project outcome is considered as
marginally unsatisfactory (para. 39).
Performance under the Technical Assistance Component
11.           Technology and Productivity Fund (TPF): Start of disbursements was delayed by about
three years, and commitments were slow in the beginninlg. The main reason for delay was that the eligibility
criteria for technology subprojects were not understood by potential beneficiaries and the financial
intermediaries. The Bank spent a lot of time explaining and had to be particularly careful to avoid misuse of
the grant funds. Only IDBP channeled the TPF grant to the SSI firms. The other PCIs did not take



- iv -
sufficient interest because most of their clients were large industries. A consultant was appointed to assist
the DFIs in identification of eligible subprojects for TPF scheme (para. 22). Althouglh, only about NLG 1.0
million was utilized for 40 subprojects under TPF, the scheme is considered a great success and the
methodology which has been developed can be replicated.
12.           About 550 of the PCIs' middle and senior managers and branc1h officers were trained. The
training consisted of a basic program for staff new to project financing and an advanced program for more
senior staff. However, the training programs were more on an ad lhoc basis and not in line with the overall
objective of the institutions' human resources development needs (para. 20).
13.           SSI Statistics: The sector study analyzed the impact of various interventions in the SSI
sector, including the first two SSI projects, in terms of employment, output, exports and other economic
objectives, assessed whether credit access for small industries had improved and identified remaining
problem areas which required adjustments in policy and strategy. The findings of the study indicate that the
growth rate for the sector over the period needs to be revised to 4.7 percent from 8.4 percent estimated by
the Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS). Labor productivity in the large industry sector was 6 times greater
than in small and microenterprises and the contribution of the latter was less thani one percent to government
revenues. Access of small and microenterpreneurs to formal credit did not improve, nor were the
Government's policies perceived as any more supportive. Lastly, the FBS moved slowly in implementing
the cornponent involving the hardware (cartographic equipment) for statistical analysis (para. 21). The
component was, however, completed satisfactorily along with trainin1g of FBS staff in Singapore.
Bank and Borrower Performance
14.           Performance of the Bank and GOP was satisfactory in identification, design, and
preparation of the project. However, the borrower's implementation performance is not considered
satisfactory due to 60% of the project funds remaining undisbursed; PCIs poor performance in loan
recovery; and deficiencies in GOP's macroeconomic policies (paras. 15 and 38). The Bank's supervision is
considered marginally satisfactory. Bank should have supervised the project more frequently during the
difficult period covering the restructuring process (paras. 33 and 34).
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
15.           Essential conditions for success of this type of operation are:
*  Efficient and stable financial intermediaries and Governmenit commitmelnt to a sound
macroeconomics policy (based on a stable political system) and providing a supportive environment
for industrial development (para. 44).
*  Financial intermediaries to be selected carefully to ensure that they are finanicially viable and are
professionally managed without outside interference. In case of SSI-Ill, the Bank's choice was
limited to the NCBs when the project was appraised (para. 44).
*  Selection of an apex agency to be done with great care to ensure that it has an efficient
organizational set up (para. 43). A reputable private sector organizationi is more suited as it can
support implementation with an adequate incentive and accountability system. Performance criteria
to be clearly defined (as experience with the apex consultinig firm unlder the project has been
mixed).



v -
*  The Bank to provide technical assistance and increase its supervision intenisity wheni problems arise
during project implementation and ensure allocation of greater resources for supervision (para. 45).
*  The need for project restructuring to be identified as early as possible and implemented
expeditiously. In the case of SSI-III, the process of restructuring took about two years, although
actions for restructuring were initiated soon after problems were identified (para. 46).
*  GOP and the Bank to review the relevant procedures for amending Loan Agreements in order to
streamline them (paras. 18 and 46).
*  Finally, the Bank may wish to consider the possibility of identifying a project based on the
experience gained from the success of the Technology and Productivity Fund. Pakistan's industry,
and the SSIs in particular, should upgrade efficiency and the quality of their products in order to
survive in an environment of international competition. A project could be based on the
replicability of the pilot implemented under SSI-III (para. 42).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2839-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement / Evaluation Of Objectives
1.          Project Objectives. The Third Small Scale Industries Project (SSI-III) was designed to
build on the success of the first two projects and continue supporting the Government of Pakistan's
(GOP's) strategy for SSI development. Although it focused on the efficient delivery of financial
resources, project scope was expanded to include upgrading of the prevailing backward technology and
low quality and improving export marketing services. Specifically, the project was aimed at: (a)
encouraging increased lending to SSIs; (b) strengthening the financial institutions involved through
technical assistance, training and improvement of operating systems and procedures; (c) developing a
strong export marketing infrastructure through promotion of export houses; (d) improving the efficiency
of industrial units through technology upgrading programs; and (e) improving the accuracy and
reliability of SSI statistics for policy and development strategy formulation.
2.          Project Description. The project consisted of: (a) a US$57.5 million line of credit to the
five Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) to finance subloans for fixed investment and permanent
working capital; (b) technical assistance (TA) of US$2 million for training and staff development for
participating financial institutions; (c) TA of US$5 million for the establishment of export houses; (d)
TA of US$1.5 million for upgrading technology and productivity of SSIs; (e) TA of US$0.5 million to
the Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS) to improve SSI data collection, processing and analysis; and (f) a
sector study to analyze the impact of the first two projects and other interventionis in the sector. The
Government of the Netherlands (GON) provided a NLG 25 million grant to support all the TA
components and portion of the subloan component over and above US$ 54 million IBRD Loan.
3.          Evaluation of Objectives. Policy Context. In 1986, at the time of project appraisal, GOP
was continuing to attach priority to the SSI sector not only because of its importance in supporting
industrial development objectives, but also because of its beneficial impact on social objectives.
Generally, small firms had been found to be less affected by economic and political changes due to their
greater flexibility with regard to labor employment, production and compliance with Government
regulations. SSIs were contributing 4.7 percent of Gross Domestic Products, 27 percent of industrial
value added and 30 percent of manufactured exports, and employed about 2 million workers in over
100,000 establishments. They specialized in processing local raw materials such as cotton, construction
materials and food. They were also active in exports such as carpets, ready-made garments, sporting
goods, cutlery and surgical instruments. The SSIs were, however, characterized by low productivity and
quality as they concentrated on producing for the rural market. Techlnical and marketing services were
found to be deficient, particularly for exports. Only direct exporters were entitled to export incentives.
Very small companies were trying to export despite lack of expertise and marketing institutions. They
were generally labor intensive, with average capital output ratio of about 0.8 (versus 1.0-1.5 for large
industry) and an investment per job of about US$1,800. These and other characteristics suggested that
there was considerable scope for improving labor productivity without sacrificing labor intensity.



- 2 -
4.          At the time of project appraisal, the Government defined small industry units as enterprises
with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of PRs 10 million or less. This was revised to PRs 20
million in 1992. GOP allowed SSIs to be set up and operated with little regulation. Except for
perrnission for location in accordance with zoning regulations, licensing was not required. GOP arrived
at a policy decision that credit to SSIs should be provided at interest rates which were positive in real
terms and market-based. The interest rate for industry was minimum of 14 percent p.a. for term lending.
5.          Sector Development Objectives: The project was to dovetail with GOP's strategy for the
sector in making fixed asset loans (including loans for permanent working capital) more readily available
to small industries, thus reducing their dependence on the informal sector financing. The credit was to
fill a significant portion of the resource gap for SSI lending. The SSI growth rate was estimated at 10
percent (GOP estimated 12 percent) and credit requirements were estimated at PRs 2.8 billion for
FY88-90, of which the Bank Loan of US$54 million was designed to cover 30 percent, approximately
equivalent to the foreign costs. The project gave 7 years for disbursements based on intemational
experience with similar loans for SSIs. In order to encourage the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
to become independent in SSI financing, the cofinancing for the NCBs was increased from 20 percent
under SSI-I and 30 percent under SSI-II to 40 percent under SSI-I11 to enhance commercial bank
financing to the SSI sector.
6.          It was expected that the project would serve agroindustries, light engineering, textile
prodlucts and food processing. Substantial capacity expansion was expected in rice and flour milling, oil
extraction, and ice and cold storage for the fishing, poultry and cash crop sectors. Project opportunities
were also identified in handling, storage and processing of fruits and vegetables for domestic and export
markets. Growth was expected in the power loom industry, which accounted for 15 percent of past SSI
investments, and garment manufacturing for export using both local cotton and imported blend fabrics.
7.          The Bank's Industrial Strategy: The Bank's strategy was to support the industrial sector,
mostly through credit projects and related institutional development in support of the private sector. The
strategy for the SSI sector developed over time. A series of industrial sector projects were approved by
the WSorld Bank starting early 1980s in order to provide investment credit through commercial banks and
development finance institutions to small, medium and large scale industries (Table 2). These projects
also aimed at improving the institutional capacity of channeling credit institutionis, developing and
strengthening the institutional framework and expanding the efficiency of the SSI sector. In 1988, GOP
and the Bank started a review of the financial sector, whichl eventually led to the Finanicial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL) in 1989. This project aimed at strengtlhenling the banking system and
introducing prudential regulation through SBP. Since then, the Bank's strategy has included financial
and industrial policy reforms as part of credit line projects.
8.          Project Design: The project was designed to move away from subsidized lending to the
SSI sector, based on IDA financing in the case of the first two SSI projects. IBRD financing was to be
onlent to the sub-borrowers at market rates, fixed at 14 percent at appraisal with a provision for revision
on a yearly basis to remain market based. The Pakistan Bankinig Council (PBC) was selected to be the
apex agency for the project instead of the Industrial Develop-ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) as in the case
of the first two projects. The PCIs were to continue to be primarily responsible for appraisal, supervision
and collection of subloans and the apex agency was to help the PCIs to improve their appraisal and
supervision of subprojects and arranging the staff training. Additional tasks of disbursements and
collection and progress reporting were assigned to the apex institutioni.



- 3 -
9.          Onlending terms and conditions for subloans. The interest rate was raised from 14 percent
to 16-18 percent after restructuring of the project in 1993 (para. 1 8). The subloanis were repayable over a
maximum of 10 years including a maximum of two years of grace. Not more thani 20 percent of the
subloan amount under a subproject could be spent on buildings, except in case of hiotels, hospitals and
clinics where the limit was 50 percent. Subprojects were to be labor intenisive with a maximum
investment per job created of PRs 200,000 initially (revised to PRs 400,000 after restructuring).
Subproject maximum debt/equity ratio was 70/30.
10.         Organization of Export Houses. This componenit supported organizatioin of five medium-
scale export houses, provision of training, establishment of overseas offices and promotional activities,
and provision of permanent working capital loans on a long-tern basis. The Export Promotion Bureau
(EPB) was designated to prescreen applicants for the export houses based on1 criteria laid down in the
project, and the NCBs were to appraise the subloan proposals and submit them to the Bank for clearance.
11.         Technical Assistance. Technology and Productivity Fund (TPF): Under the project,
efforts were made to address some of the needs of the SSIs whichl became apparent from the experience
under the first two projects. Thus, a component was added under which a Fund was created to provide
partial grants (50 percent cost sharing) through the three largest Development Finance Institutes (DFIs)
to private industry to finance viable technology subprojects. The scheme included technical consulting
services/training programs, and dies and small R&D projects whicih either introduced new technology or
improved an existing one in private industry. This scheme was done on a pilot basis with responsibility
for developing detailed procedures for utilization of the fund being with the DFIs. The National Center
for Technology Transfer (NCTT) was designated to monitor performance and conduct a detailed study
on cost and benefit analysis. Detailed analysis of TPF performance could not be undertaken by NCTT as
the institution was abolished by the Government of Pakistan. However, a summary review was carried
out by another consultant. He found that the beneficiaries had used the funds under TPF satisfactorily
and their performance had improved generally in accordance with the TPF subproject projections.
12.         Improvement of SSI Statistics. The Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS) was using an
average growth rate between FY77 and FY81 and compounding it by a fixed rate of 7.3 percent to arrive
at annual growth rates. This methodology was, as expected, found to be providing inaccurate
information and was thus unreliable. Under the project, a component was designed to support FBS's
plan to conduct a first-ever census of all large, small, and household establishmenits in both urban and
rural areas. Such census would be repeated every five years, while durinig the interveniing years sample
surveys would be conducted of only small and household manufacturing industries. This approach was
to provide a database and generate more reliable annual statistics. Funds were provided for hardware,
software and training to strengthen FBS's ability in statistical and economic analysis.
13.         Training Programfor PCIs. Under past SSI projects, the Bank had provided funds to PBC
and the PCIs to assist them in building capability for project finanicing througlh staff training and systems
improvement, and in developing a healthy project pipeline througlh subsector analysis. Under this
project, training programs on project appraisal and supervision for branch officers dealing with industrial
finance, particularly SSIs, were to be prepared by PBC in consultationi with the NCBs.
B. Achievement Of Objectives
14.         Project Implementation and Results. The overall implementationi of the SSI-111 project
was not fully satisfactory in achieving its main objectives and in utilizationi of the funlds. A number of
factors contributed to the deficient implementation of this project.



- 4 -
15.         Changes in the Environment: Project implementationi was spread over about eight years.
This period witnessed far reaching changes in the macroeconomics field, the political arena, industrial
policy and also the financial sector. These resulted in deregulation, privatization, reduction of subsidies
and reduction in duties and taxes. Two of the participating NCBs were privatized, the Muslim
Commercial Bank (MCB) in 1992 and Allied Bank in 1993. Import duties were reduced from an average
of about 200 percent to about 100 percent. State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) introduced prudential
regulations for the commercial banks, as recommended uinder the FSAL. However, many of the legal
reforms for improving loan recovery were not implemented. GOP forcefully implemented its targeted
credit policy and subsidized loan programs through a set of incenitives and sanctionis. In a further effort
to encourage new lending programs for the industrial sector, the financing of locally manufactured
machinery (LMM) scheme was introduced in 1986. This program, with subsidized lending rate,
appeared to undermine the gains towards a more market oriented interest rate regime and negatively
affected project disbursements. This potential risk was clearly identified in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Therefore, at negotiations, GOP had assured the Bank that these schemes would involve small amounts
and would be phased out. In practice these rates were gradually increased to 13 percent over the period
of the Loan. Lastly, inflation during the period remained mostly above 10 percent and the rupee was
devalued from about PRs 16 to PRs 32 per US Dollar.
16.         Slow Project Implementation. After appraisal in July 1986, furtlher project processing was
slow due to structural changes over the first two credits. The major chaniges comprised the shift from
IDA to IBRD lending, an increase in PCI cofinancing and an increase in the interest rate. These changes
were introduced in order to move towards market rates and improve sustainability. Thus, project
negotiations were held nearly a year after the appraisal and the Loan became effective nine months after
Board approval (Table 3: Project Timetable). Furthermore, SSI-III project became effective before SSI-
II credit had been fully utilized. Therefore, SSI-111 funds were not utilized until 1991 due to availability
of funds under the Second SSI credit line.
17.         PBC advised that it would not be able to perform the apex role as it, not being a bank, was
not legally authorized to handle funds under the project. This resulted from PBC's charter being
amended under FSAL. It took 15 months to agree and theni formalize nominiationl of IDBP as the new
apex a,gency. The delay was due to GOP reviewing the consequences of a chanige and then agreeing on
an adequate service charge to be paid to IDBP and finally, amendinig the Loan Agreement accordingly.
The delay in shifting the apex role was considered instrumental in losing the momentum that was created
at the time of appraisal. Furthermore, IDBP's ineffectiveness in refinancinig and monitoring the PCIs
further exacerbated the slow utilization of the Loan. This, along with transfer of early disbursements to
the Second SSI project (being still ongoing), were the main reasons for the delays in disbursements under
the project until 1991. In 1992, utilization of the funds tapered off due to a slowdown in investment
resulting from recession. Soon thereafter, the textile industry started facing a crisis caused by an
enormous rise in the price of local cotton. Disbursements reached only US$10 million by 1992 and
remained mostly unchanged for the next year. Around this time, the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
also came out with a project for US$50 million for the SSIs based on largely similar terms and
conditions. Their project also remained unutilized for the same reasons for some time. However, ADB
restructured their project quickly and, with some flexibility in application, the project was fully
committed by about 1993. Lastly, various supervision missions visited the EPB to seek their
involvement in implementation of the export house component. Initially, they appeared interested.
However, no actions were taken to define the criteria for selection of sponsors for export houses. In
1992, the Bank missions found it difficult to even meet the concerned officials. Further efforts in this
regard were therefore abandoned.



- 5 -
18.         Project Restructuring: As project implementation was slow, the Bank proposed
cancellation of the project during the March 1991 Country Implementation Review. The Government,
however, requested that the Bank review the project one more time and assess whether the project could
be redesigned. As a result, the Bank commissioned two local consultants to carry out a detailed study,
surveying a sample of sub-borrowers as well as the operations of each intermediary. The consultant's
report and the November 1991 supervision mission's findings confirmed that there was a great need for
the SSI fund but the intermediary institutions were not able to deliver the fund efficiently. The Bank
suspended non-performing PCIs, declared the project a problem project and decided to review the project
implementation performance periodically within one more year. As the desired outcome was not
achieved during the interim period, the Bank proposed cancellationi of the project. However, after
discussion with the GOP, the Bank decided to restructure the project to bring it in line with the realities
as many changes had taken place since the project was appraised in 1986. The elements of the
restructuring were prepared in December 1992 which were discussed with GOP by a mission in early
1993 and agreement reached. Thereafter, the draft amendment to the Loan Agreement was sent to GOP
in April 1993 and signed by the GOP in September 1993. The major changes under restructuring
comprised: (a) raising the interest rate to the sub-borrower from l 4 percent to 16-18 percent; (b)
increasing eligibility of subprojects with regard to labor intensity froimn investment of PRs 200,000 to PRs
400,000 per job; (c) allowing financing under LMM scheme as part of PCI cofinancing; (d) amortization
period of subloans to be minimum of five years; (e) subloan size was increased to a maximum of
US$600,000; and (f) appointment of private sector apex consultant to assist IDBP. The restructuring
became effective in September 1993 and funds were reallocated accordingly. The allocation for the
export houses was canceled and the entire amount was reallocated to the subloan component. Under the
Dutch Grant, after utilization of NLG 2.12 million for subloans, the remaining allocation of NLG 12.88
million was canceled by the Netherlands Government due to slow utilizationi. The allocation for the
Technology Fund was raised from US$1.5 million equivalent to US$2.5 million equivalent. Other
allocations remained the same.
19.         The credit component financed 267 SSI units. The total investmenit made was US$85
million against US$170 million planned, of which IBRD contributed US$21.5 millioni (US$50 million
planned). Based on estimates at the time of subproject appraisal, the investments yielded approximately
15,200 jobs or just over half the 28,000 expected at the time of project design. The average subloan size
was PRs 3.9 million (US$100,000) and the average fixed cost per job was PRs 160,000 (US$4,000).
Financing mainly went to textile sector (33 percent), light enginieerinig ( I 0 percent), ice and cold storage
(9 percent), grain milling (6 percent); and printing, publishinig and packing, food processing and dairy
farming (4 percent each). About 208 of the subprojects were new; the remainder was balancing,
modernization, replacement and expansion. Geographic distributioll of workers employed indicates 62
percent in Punjab, 31 percent in Sind, 6 percent in Northwest Frontier Province and only 0.6 percent in
Baluchistan. Disbursements were generally in the same proportion (details are provided in the Annexes).
20.         Technical Assistance Components. Training qf/Credit officers: The objective of
improving the appraisal and supervision capacities of the NCBs was partially achieved. Training was
used on1 an ad hoc basis, usually to reward senior employees or managemenit. The misuse of the training
funds resulted in the low quality of subproject appraisal. About 550 officers of the banks were trained by
arrangements made by Pakistan Banking Council. This has helped improve the capacity of the PCIs to
extend finance to industry and, particularly, the small sector.
21.         SSIStatistics: A sector study was carried out to determine clhanges in the sector due to the
impact of the first two projects and other interventions by GOP. Care is needed in interpreting the data



- 6 -
as the definition of microenterprises and small-scale industry used in the study is different from the basis
used for the SSI projects. Nevertheless, one of the results of the improvements in statistical data has
been the reconsideration of the growth rate which the national planninlg committees use for the sector.
The study reports that the Committee on National Accounts has now agreed to change the official growth
rate from 8.4 percent per year to 4.7 percent per year. This revision has serious consequences which
touchi upon all statistical data for the sector, much of which was based on extrapolations of the growth
data. While the sector has gradually increased the number of jobs (from approximately 34.6 percent of
total employment in 1981 to 38.3 percent in 1991), its contribution to GDP has only increased from 41.5
percent to 42.7 percent in the same period. Extending the analysis to capital productivity and
capital/labor ratios, the study shows that labor productivity in the large-scale sector is 6.5 times higher
than in the microenterprise and small-scale industry sector. For 1989/90, on average, one worker
generated PRs 114,000 value added a year in large-scale industry as compared to PRs 18,000 in
microenterprises and small-scale industry. Due to the significantly lower capital investments in
microenterprises and small-scale industries, capital productivity was found to be almost identical.
Lastly, the study found that infrastructure support for the sector is mixed; while over 80 percent do
benefit from electricity, a more in-depth analysis shows that access to telephone services is difficult.
Only 6.5 percent of micro and small enterprises are able to get financial services, of which only 17
percent obtained credit from Pakistan's commercial banks, and an additional 0.4 percent received funds
from Provincial Government programs.
22.         Technology and Productivity Fund (TPF): Utilization was initially slow. The DFIs did
not take sufficient interest because they did not know how to handle grant funds and there was nothing in
this scheme to benefit them. Nevertheless, IDBP cooperated extensively, being familiar with small
indusitry for which purpose it was initially founded. Documentation to satisfy eligibility criteria and
procedures for approval and execution were introduced. To help the DFIs identify potential
beneficiaries, a private sector consultant was employed. A substanitial breakthrough was seen in 1994 as
the eligibility criteria under the TPF grant were better understood by the participating institutions
(particularly IDBP) and the potential beneficiaries. About US$0.8 million were committed for fifty six
TPF subprojects. However, only US$0.6 million for 40 subprojects could be disbursed as the project
closed on December 31, 1995. All the disbursements have been througlh IDBP.
C. Major factors Affecting The Project
23.         The Factors Generally Under the Implementing Ageencies' Control. The Apex Institution.
Experience with IDBP as the apex institution was not entirely satisfactory. IDBP neither kept
appropriate records of amounts disbursed and subprojects refinaniced, nor perforned follow-up audits
and professional scrutiny of subproject appraisals. IDBP did not effectively and efficiently perform its
role because of lack of adequate and competent staff and frequenit chaniges at the top management.
IDBIE, with the Bank's clearance, engaged a private sector consultinig firn (Finanicial and Management
Services (FMS)) to perform the apex functions under their supervision. FMS came onl board from
January 1994 and their contract ended with the project closing. FMS maniaged to improve the
performance of the apex only partially. Their performance regarding record keeping was better than
IDBI"s but they did not provide the Bank much analysis of implementationi progress. FMS did not have
much success with improving the PCIs' loan recovery.
24.         Poor project management by IDBP was also reflected in noni-complianice with the
reporting and auditing requirements. The Bank seldom received audited anlual reports and quarterly
project progress reports on time. The NCBs submitted their audited finanlcial statements with
considerable delays. The NCBs, however, complied with the auditing requirements as agreed under the



- 7 -
Loan Agreement. They were not required to furnish long-forn audits. Althoughi the external auditors
never qualified the NCBs' financial statements, their accounts were not audited according to international
auditing standards and guidelines.
25.         Low Recovery Ratio. The major problem encouLntered was the low recovery rates of
subloans by the NCBs and high level of infection of their portfolios by arrears. As of March 1993, about
216 projects had been closed down and another 137 projects were not servicing their debts. Four of the
five NCBs were suspended from making new commitments under the project because they were
recovering less than 75 percent of SSI-I and II subloans. IDA could not suspend the NCBs under SSI-I1
earlier because of the lack of covenant. The suspension of the NCBs under SS-I-ll resulted in greater
efforts to improve collection performance ratios, althouglh, with limited success. One of the suspended
PCIs (Allied Bank) was reinstated for meeting the recovery ratio requirement again after two years.
During this period, only one PCI remained eligible. Loan recovery has been a serious problem in
Pakistan's banking system (which has one of the lowest recovery rates in Asia).
26.         The high level of PCIs non-performing loans can be traced back to political interference,
weak management, lack of accountability, and absence of professional motivation. An analysis of the
NCBs' low recovery rates revealed the following problems faced by the entrepreneurs: (a) inadequate
investment amount; (b) delays in subloan approval resulting in higher project cost and corresponding
increase in the sub-loan amount not being made available to theem; (c) poor finanicial and marketing
planning and poor financial control, leading to cost overruns and caslh shortages; and (d) inadequate
subproject monitoring and supervision by the NCBs. Investmenit amounts were inadequate because the
NCBs arbitrarily cut down subloan size (by about 25 percent) based on the assumption that sub-
borrowers had inflated investment costs (reflected their experience witlh over-invoicing in big projects
such as sugar mills). Sub-borrowers used funds earmarked for working capital to finance investments in
fixed assets as the loan amounts approved by NCBs were not adequate to sustain viable subprojects. The
second issue mentioned above relates to cost increases. Subproject cost estimates were derived from
feasibility studies that were one or two years out of date and were not revised during or after the delays
in subloan approval. The NCBs' inspections were limited to rare visits during initial stages of the
subprojects and lacked assessments on current or projected finanicial and operational performance.
27.         Shortfall in Loan Utilization: The agreed decentralizationi of appraisal and supervision
functions did not take place and additional branches for SSI lending were never designated. In retrospect
and based on data obtained, it emerges that failure of the NCBs to effectively decentralize their approval
procedures negatively affected project implementation and reduced the NCBs' interest in successfully
providing long-term resources to SSIs. Habib Bank decentralized part of its operations which resulted in
a reduction of approval time to a maximum of 2-3 months after loan application and an improvement in
the quality of appraisal. Other reasons were that: (a) the NCB branclhes were not familiar with SSI
lending procedures and to avoid making mistakes, the branchles simply did not process subloan
applications; (b) subloan appraisal procedures were lengthy and complicated; and (c) there were no
proper technical personnel within the NCBs to adequately appraise subloan applications.
28.         Frequently changing government policies made investmenit planninig and project financing
difficult for the business community in Pakistan. Profitability of some subprojects was adversely
affected by changes in government policies which were not foreseen in the subprojects' feasibility
studies and financial planning. Several other factors also affected PCI financial performance and loan
recovery rates, including: (a) political interference in managerial appointments and lending decisions; (b)
absence of transparent and consistent accounting and auditing standards which would have provided
lenders with reliable and timely information on the borrower's creditworthiiness; (c) lack of effective



- 8 -
subproject appraisal and supervision; and (d) lack of an effective legal framework to ensure speedy and
impartial settlement of claims.
29.         Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. The economy of Pakistan
generally remained in recession, with the exception of short bursts of improvement in 1989 and 1991.
The country's growth rate on average was about 4 percent per annium and could not achieve the structural
transformation needed. This was mainly due to a sharp decline in agricultural output. Adverse weather
conditions and viral attacks on the cotton crop resulted in a decline in the wheat harvest and cotton crop
failure. Bad cotton crops during 1992-1994 resulted in critical shortages of cottoIn, imore than 100
percent increase in prices, and a slow down of activities in the textile industry. Economic recession in
major markets for Pakistan's exports and intensified competition from its trading competitors were added
to the domestic problems. In the early 1990s, political turbulence in the country and later the law and
order situation in Sind Province adversely affected economic activities, particularly the performance of
the industrial sector. Most industrial units, in particular those in the textile sector, faced liquidity
problenns and had losses, and many closed down.
D. Project Sustainability
30.         Enterprises. The project contributed to the expansion of the SSI sector. The SSI
manufacturing sector's share of value-added increased from 27 percent at the time of project appraisal to
nearly 33 percent in 1992. However, several enterprises have faced problems (about 40 percent have
gone into arrears and 10 percent have been closed down). Thus, the project sustainability is uncertain.
The technology subprojects have been highly successful and the feedback from them has been that they
benefited from the assistance provided under the Dutch Grant and improved their profitability and
exportability. In fact, the pilot could now be replicated on a larger scale.
31.         Participating Financial Institutions. The project only partially succeeded in improving the
appraisal and supervision capacities of the NCBs which have based their lendinig decisions on collateral
they can seldom realize, rather than subproject viability and cash flow. However, the project clearly
contributed to increasing the access of SSIs to the formal financial sector. The NCBs are now lending
their own long-term funds to the SSI sector. According to information provided by SBP, credit extended
to the SSI sector (measured as the increase in the outstanding amount) by commercial banks increased
from about PRs 1.7 billion to PRs 4.5 billion from FY 87 to FY95. This includes financing from foreign
credit lines. Even in dollar terms it is significantly positive.
32.         The NCBs' and DFIs' portfolios of both small and large loans have generally been
deteriorating (paras. 25 and 26). This has been mainly due to internal operational deficiency of these
institutions and weaknesses of the financial system as a whole. This is a cause for concern and the main
impediment in achieving sustainable and efficient market-based credit allocation through the financial
system to the growth sectors.
E. IBRD's Performance
33.    The Bank's performance could have been better. The capacity of the apex agency's consultant
was overestimated. Their contract should have been on yearly basis, renewable on good performance
rather than for two years up to the closing date. SSI-III was intenided to build a strong foothold for the
SSIs in the NCBs' domestic lending, which could have been fully achieved with a strong, efficient and
effective apex agency. The Bank should have worked more closely with the NCBs to design and
supervise implementation of the training for credit officers and provide follow-up supervision and



- 9 -
guidance to assist credit officers in applying their knowledge. However, only after 1994 did the Bank
maintain good lines of communication among IDBP and the NCBs.
34.    The Bank's supervision missions for SSI-III were combined with otlher operations in the financial
sector and inadequate time was allocated to the project. The supervision missions should have devoted
more time to reviewing the overall financial situation of the NCBs and assessing the impact of non-
financial constraints on the development of SSIs. It is recommended that the Bank focus on the financial
viability of institutions and be very selective initially (the Bank did not have much choice when the
project was appraised as all the banks were in the public sector), as well as devote more attention to
financial sector policy reforms which would not only strengthen institutions but also allow them to
operate in a more efficient and effective financial framework.
35.         The project closed as scheduled, although the utilization rate hiad improved. The main
reason for not acceding to GOP's request for extension was that only one PCI remained eligible.
However, the grant, which was also being utilized rapidly, could have been extended if it had not been
tied entirely to the Loan Agreement. An arrangement similar to the Industrial Investment Credit (IIC-III)
project, where TA under IDA had a different closing date, could have been more beneficial.
F. Borrower's Performance
36.         During Appraisal, GOP correctly analyzed the sector's need for credit and certain policy
impediments such as protection through high import duties. Unfortuniately, during implementation the
Government decided to take a different route than that agreed during appraisal because it believed that
the problem was more related to the level of interest rates than access to credit. The introduction of
heavily subsidized credit schemes undermined this loan and represented a departure from the objectives
of establishing market-based interest rates. This was corrected very slowly. Furthermore, GOP could
have been more prudent in sequencing credit lines from other sources (e.g. ADB) for the same target
group, unless it was done on cofinancing basis.
37.         During project implementation, the Government started to reforn the financial sector by
introducing prudential regulations and moving to a more market-based structure (para. 40). Furthermore,
the Government's commitment to the SSI sector helped in partial success of the project. However, the
tardiness of IDBP and the NCBs in sending reports and complying with the rules and regulations, as
agreed in negotiations and laid down in the Loan Agreement have adversely affected the project
implementation performance.
38.         Participating Institutions 'Performance: The PCIs' interest in this project was noticeably
lower as compared with the first two projects, mainly due to the increased 40 percent cofinancing
requirement from their own resources. Since their cofinancing was counted within the credit ceilings of
the banks, they preferred extending short term working capital finance over long term fixed investment
project finance. The reasons included higher margins and lower risks associated with short-term
financing. This was one of the reasons that the PCIs did not concenltrate sufficiently on simplifying their
loan sanctioning procedures for term lending. Recovery ratios under the first two projects also started to
deteriorate. Four of the PCIs, therefore, had to be suspended in 1991, with only Habib Bank remaining
eligible. Efforts at improving recoveries remained only partially successful as only Allied Bank
managed to improve to the extent that it became eligible again in 1994. MCB, which was privatized in
1992, decided to withdraw from the project advising that after privatization they would be concentrating
on recoveries from the bigger industries. In addition to the factors mentionied above, several other



- 10-
factors (as mentioned in para. 28) adversely affected the PCIs' financial performance and their loan
recovery rate. Lastly, the Apex and the PCIs were continuously late in submitting audit reports.
G. Assessment of Outcome
39.         Development objectives of this project were achieved in some areas (increased SSI
investments and capital formation in various SSI subsectors, increased access to institutional credit by
SSIs through the banking system and employment generation in the sector). However, the overall
implementation of the project was somewhat deficient due to several factors: (a) low utilization of the
credit funds; (b) weaknesses in the financial sector and regulatory environmenit in which the PCIs
operate; (c) lack of autonomy and accountability in the NCBs; (d) poor financial performance of the
PCIs, in particular their low loan recovery rate; (e) changing apex institutionis and poor project
monitoring and management by the apex agencies; and (f) uncertainity about the project's sustainability.
H. Follow-Up/Future Operations
40.         The broader issues affecting the financial sector were addressed under the FSAL which
was approved, soon after the SSI-III project, in 1989. The reforms supported by FSAL included:
improvement in government debt management, reduction of segmentation by raising concessional
interest rates and limiting directed credit schemes, strengthening of the banking system by strengthening
prudential regulations and institution building, and development of capital markets. In order to continue
and expand the reform process started under FSAL and support the GOP's strategy for macroeconomics
and financial sector reforms, the Board approved three more projects following SSI-III. In January 1989,
the Board approved the IIC-III project to assist the GOP in meeting its objectives of further increasing
the role of the private sector and accelerating the growth of capital markets. In April 1991, the Bank
approved a microenterprise project with the objective of further supporting the Government in its
continued efforts to strengthen Pakistan's financial system and link it to the productive sectors of the
economy. The main objective of the project was to increase productivity, growth, and employment in the
microenterprise sector by providing credit investment througlh bank and noni-banik finanicial institutions
and linking them with larger businesses.
41.         In November 1994, the Board approved the Finanicial Sector Deepening and
Intermediation Project (FSDIP). This project was built oni experience gained unlder previous Loans and
Credits, and focuses on: (a) maintaining the momentum for improving and deepeninlg the financial
system and promoting new financial instruments; (b) strengtlheninlg the institutionial, regulatory and legal
framework; and (c) completing key reforms in privatization. GOP is committed to continuing reform of
the financial and industrial policy under this project. The medium-term Bank Group assistance strategy
includles, among other things, establishing a more competitive environmenit for private sector investment
and accelerated growth. To this end, the Bank Group will contilnue to help Pakistan to further broaden
financial instruments available to private businesses, to provide insurance coverage for private financial
institutions, and to improve financial intermediation for micro and small-scale enterprises through a
microcredit operation.
42.         Under the SSI-111 project, the TA program was well conceived and designed. The
objectlives were largely achieved. The TPF component was also implemented successfully, although the
funds available could not be fully utilized. It can be replicated on1 a larger scale. Therefore, based on the
experience gained, the Bank may consider a project for improving industrial efficiency and quality of
products for Pakistan. This would provide some of the needed inputs to help Pakistan face the
challenges and be able to compete in international markets. As a first step, a detailed study may be



- 11 -
carried out of the impact of the technology subprojects on the beneficiaries whiclh may form the basis for
a future operation.
I. Lessons Learned
43.          Selection of the PCIs is very important. They should be interested and be good financial
performers. An efficient and effective apex institution is crucial to the success of this type of project.
When designing projects, the Bank should agree on performance criteria and sanctions in case of non-
performance and during project implementation, it should provide adequate technical assistance to
potentially weak apex institutions and continually supervise and monitor their work. Furthermore, when
defining the project's covenants, the Bank should take into account that financial markets and policies
may change, particularly when it is pressing for financial reforms. It should not confine its evaluation
and supervision to the narrow window of its own loans but look at the financial viability of
intermediaries.
44.          The success and sustainability of Bank financial/industrial intermediation operations both
in term lending and institutional development depend to a large extent on the Government's
implementation of elements of a prudent financial sector policy and on the establishment and
enforcement of proper institutional, regulatory, and incentive frameworks for the financial institutions
and the private sector. The financial viability of the credit institutions and their internal operating
efficiency such as strong management, effective loan recovery, and systematic appraisal and timely
supervision of financed subprojects should be given due attention (under this project financial
intermediaries had to be selected from the NCBs as banks in the private sector at the time did not exist).
In Pakistan, the quality of the NCBs' portfolios deteriorated partly due to political interference and
frequent changes in their top management. As long as the risk of government intervention in the internal
operations of financial institutions exists, the Bank should not channel its intermediation loans through
the government-owned financial institutions, and should insist on financially sound capital structure of
subprojects, their profitability and satisfactory rates of return.
45.          Effective and timely monitoring and supervision of the project by both the Bank and the
borrower is integral to the success of projects. Considering the shortcomings of the financial system and
the prevailing political and economic difficulties in the country, the Bank should have supervised the
project more closely and provided adequate staffing for close monitoring of the participating credit
institutions and the financed subprojects. Until 1994, supervision of this project was combined with that
of other projects, resulting in inadequate attention and time allocation to the SSI-III project even though
it was a problem project.
46.          The experience under SSI-III project shows that the Bank's procedure for formalizing and
implementing restructuring through amendment in the Loan Agreement is lengthy. There is, therefore, a
need to review this procedure and explore possibilities of simplifying it.



- 12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial         Negligible          Not applicable
Macroeconomics policies            ()              ()                ()                   (1)
Sector Policies                    ()              ()               (/)                   ()
Capital Market Policies            ()              ()                ()                   (/)
Financial Objectives               ()             (/)                ()                   ()
Institutional Development          ()             (/)                ()                   ()
Physical Objectives                ()              ()                ()                   (1
Poverty Reduction                  ()              ()                ()                   (/
Gender Concerns                    ( )             ( )               ()                   (v)
Other Social Objectives            ()              ()                ()                   (/)
Environmental objectives           ()              ()                ()                   (1)
Public sector management           ()              ()                ()                   (/
Private sector development         ()             (/)                ()                   ()
Other - Employment                 ()             ()((
Generation
B.    Project Sustainability            Likely                  Unlikely                    Uncertain
()                      ()                           (ii)
C.    Bank Performance                  Highly                Satisfactory                   Deflcient
Satisfactory            Stsatr                          &kn
Identification                     ()                      (/)                           ()
Preparation assistance             ()                      (/
Appraisal                          ()                      (i)                           ()
Supervision                        ()                 Marginally (V)                     ()
D.    Borrower performance              Highly                Satisfactory                   Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                        ()                      (/)                           ()
Implementation                     ()                      ()                           (/)
Covenant Compliance                ()               with some delay (/)                  ()
Operation (if applicable)          ()                      ()                            ()
E.    Assessment of outcome             Highly        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactoy         Highly Un-
satisfactorv                                            satisfactory
( )             ( )          marginallyV)               ()



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                        Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding Operations    To promote access of credit to the small industry    3/81   Closed
1. First Small Scale    sector by improving the capacity of the nationalized        on
Industry Project    commercial banks.                                            12/31/85
(SSI-I) Credit 1130-                                                             1
Pak
2. First Industrial     To help GOP improve the credit delivery system  2/84        Closed
Investment Credit    and focus on the institutional restructuring of PICIC       on
(IIC-I) Loan 2830/    and IDBP.                                                  12/31/90
Credit 1439-Pak)
3. Second Industrial    To assist GOP develop the capital market, improve    1/86   Closed
Investment Credit    credit delivery for industrial finance and continue        on
(IIC-II) Loan 2648/   institution building for PFIs.                             12/31/92
Credit 1646-PAK)
4. Second Small Scale   To promote investments in promising SSI sub-   6/84         Closed
Industry Project    sectors and improve productivity of existing SSI             on
(SSI-II) Credit 1499-  units.                                                    6/30/92
Pak
Following Operations    To assist in meeting the objectives of increasing the   1/89  Closed
1. Third Industrial    role of private sector and accelerating the growth of        on
Investment Project    capital markets, through institution building and          6/30/95
(IIC-III) Loan      policy changes                                            _           l
2. Financial Sector     To assist the GOP in financial sector reforms:  3/89        Closed
Adjustment Loan      gearing credit allocation to market signals,                on
(FSAL) Loan 3029-   improving health and efficiency of banking system,           6/30/92
Pak                  and creating more efficient Government debt
system.
3. Microenterprise      To provide funds to the microenterprises; to   4/91         Closing
Project. Loan 3318-   strengthen the capacity of the PCIs; to catalyze           date is
PAK                 NGOs' financial and technical support services for           6/30/98
microenterprises; to provide TA to microenterprises;
and to help develop businesses owned by women.
4. Financial Sector     To provide term finance for all economic activities;   11/94  Closing
Deepening and       to continue and expand the reform process started            date is
Intermediation       under FSAL; and to support GOP's strategy for               12/31/99
Project (FSDIP)      macroeconomic and financial sector reform.
Loan 3808-PAK



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                                      1985
Preparation                                                         1985
Appraisal                                   April 1986              April 1986
Negotiations                                October 1986            May 1, 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)  NA                    NA
Board presentation                          December 1986           June 16, 1987
Signing                                     August 1987             September 10, 1987
Effectiveness                               December 1987           March 8, 1988
First tranche release (if applicable)       NA                      NA
Midtenm review (if applicable)              NA                      NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if      NA                      NA
applicable)
Project completion                          June 30, 1993           December 31, 1995
Loan/C'redit closing                        December 31, 1995       December 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
US$ Million
FY89    FY90    FY91        FY92      FY93    FY94        FY95      FY96
Appraisal       6.0       18.4    30.2       38.3      44.8    49.7        52.9      54.0
estimate 1/
Actual "        0.04     0.1      5.1        9.8       10.0    18.3       21.3       21.5
Actual as % of   0.70    0.5       17.0      25.6      22.3    36.8       40.3       39.8
estimate
Grant-Actual 2'   0.0    0.0      0.0        1.3       2.0      3.1        3.3       3.4
" Loan component.
2v Netherlands Grant component. Disbursements were not estimated at Appraisal.
Date of final disbursement: For Loan: May 6, 1996
For Grant: August 7, 1996



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in
SAR/President's Report              Estimated                      Actual
1. Sub-project financing; and    1. Utilization of a total of  40%/o of the Loan was
Disbursements.               US$57.5 million for          disbursed (see table 4);
increasing capital and       employment impact was
employment in the private    significant with 15000 jobs
sector. Employment           created.
generation was estimated at
28000.
2. PCI, financial perforrnance    2. Human resource        2. The objective was partially
in credit lending and        development; improving the   achieved; however, PCI's
compliance with the project's    credit lending and loan  arrears rose in 1993-94; their
eligibility criteria including  portfolio of the PFIs;    financial performance
collection performance.      compliance with the financial  weakened; PCIs' loan
covenants (Min. required     recovery rate dropped below
recovery rate was 75%).      75%, particularly of three out
of the five.
3. Sub-projects performance  3. Satisfactory repayment of  3. Unsatisfactorily achieved.
loans.                       PCI's were able to recover
only about 65-70% of the
sub-loans.
II. Modified indicators      NA                           NA
]m. Other indicators (if     NA                            NA
applicable)             l



- 16 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in      Estimated                       Actual
SAR/President's Report
1. PFIs lending procedures                            1. Only limited implementation.
simplification
2. PFIs' Institutional        2. Training of PFI staff.  2. About 550 staff were trained.
LDevelopment                                         However, had limited impact
II. Modified indicators (if   NA                      NA
applicable)
m. Modified indicators for    NA                      NA
future operation (if
IL-applicable).
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
1.    SSI Sector Study: This was completed satisfactorily.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Item             Local       Foreign                  Local     Foreign
costs        Costs       Total      Costs       Costs       Total
1. Sub-projects         116.0         55.0        171.0       62.1       22.6        84.7
Investment
2. Technical               5.5         3.5          9.0                   2.3         2.3
Assistance
TOTAL                    121.5         58.5        180.0      62.1        24.9        87.0
Note: Actual Rupee costs converted to US$ based on average exchange rate during the utilization period.



- 17-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Source                           Local        Foreign                   Local       Foreign
Costs         Costs         Total      Costs        Costs        Total
IBRD Loan                         5.0           49.0          54.0                    21.5        21.5
Netherlands Govt.                 3.0            9.5          12.5                    3.4          3.4
PCI                              42.0                         42.0       14.7                      14.7
Private Sector                   70.5                         70.5       47.4                     47.4
GOP                               1.0                          1.0
TOTAL                            121.5          58.5         180.0       62.1         24.9         87.0
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
Expost data regarding FRR and ERR are not available for the sub-projects
Table 10: Status of Main Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section    Covenant   Present   Original      Revised       Description of covenant    Comments
ment                type       status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date                                              l
Loan    4.01(a)   Accounting   C        throughout               PCI, and IDBP to maintain
the project             procedures and records adequate
life                    to monitor the operations and
expenditures of the project
Loan    4.01(b)   Accounting   CD       6 months                 PFIs to have the records of   There were
Audit                 after each              financial statements and that for   delays
FY                      special account in accordance
with sound accounting practice
applied by independent auditors;
submitted to the Bank within 6
months after each FY
Loan    4.02     Financial     CD       Annually                 Government to review and      Implement
adjust if necessary, the interest   ed with
rates for sub-borrower to remain  delay
consistent with market rates.
C = Complied with      CD = Complied with after delay   CP = Complied with partially
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements



- 18-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project cycle               Planned                       Revised                         Actual
l______________________    Weeks                US$            Weeks            US$           Weeks        US$ (000)
Through appraisal                                                                              90.6          218.6
Appraisal through Board                                                                         6.2           15.4
Approval
Board approval through                                                                         NA             NA
effectiveness
Supervision                                                                                   131.1          251.8
Completion                                                                                     15.5           28.4
Total                                                                                         243.4          514.2
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions"1
Stages of      Month/    No. of    Days       Specialized                                            Types of
Project Cycle     Year    Persons       in       staff skills             Performance                  Problems
Field    represented                                                         l
Implementation     Development
Status            Impact                       l
Through appraisal    10/85                                       Project brief
l ____________     _________  __________                         prepared
Appraisal through    04/86          5       20  Financial,       Project Appraised   NA               Nil
Board approval                                   Economist,
Technology
l ____________     _________   __________  ________   Specialist                                                      l
Board approval       10/87          2        5
through
effectiveness                                                                                                         l
Supervision          11/87          2        5                   Problem Project in    The            Recession in
07l88         2        17                  1991. Restructured    development     economy,
07/88         2        17                  in 1993.            objectives met    competing credit
03/90         3        16                  Implementation      significantly    lines not
10/91         4        12                 improved end 1994                     envisaged at
l  10/91      4        12                                                       Appraisal, PCIs
01/92         4         8                                                        lack of adequate
interest and
01/93         4        17                                                       deterioration in
05/95         2        15                                                        PCIs collection
performance
__________      ~10 /95        2       10   _  _ _ _ _ _    _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _    _ _ _ _  _  _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Completion           12/95          2       10  Marginally       Satisfactory
satisfactory
The SSI-I],I missions were, in general, combined with those of other Bank's intermediation operations at that time. No record is
available as how the time/number of staff was split between the projects. Therefore, time for supervision missions, spent on the
SSI-III w;as less than time indicated above.



-19-
ANNEX I
SUB-LOAN APPROVALS, DISBURSEMENT AND REFINANCE
(Rs. in million and %)
No. of
Sub-Loan Approvals         Cases           %      Amount                 %
Allied Bank of Pakistan Ltd.        29        10.1%          179           14.7%
Habib Bank Limited          149       51.9%          751           61.8%
Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd.            13        4.5%           46            3.8%
National Bank Oo Pakistan          31        10.8%           69            5.7%
United Bank Limited          65        22.6%          169           13.9%
Total         287        100.0      1,214.9          100.0%
No. of
Sub-Loan Disbursements         Cases           'C/O    Amount                %
Allied Bank of Pakistan Ltd.        23         8.6%        140.8           13.7%
Habib Bank Limited          135       50.6%         607.6          59.1%
Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd.            13        4.9%          44.1           4,3%
National Bank of Pakistan         31        11.6%         66.8            6.5%
United Bank Limited          65        24.3%        168.9           16.4%
Total         267      100.0%       1,028.2          100.0%
No. of 
IBRD Refinance         Cases           %      Amount                0
Allied Bank of Pakistan Ltd.        23         8.6%       87.950           14.5%
Habib Bank Limited          135       50.6%      354.160           58.4%
Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd.            13        4.9%       26.000            4.3%
National Bank of Pakistan         31        11.6%       37.3 10           6.1%
United Bank Limited          65        24.3%      101.320           16.7%
Total         267      100.0%      606.740           100.0%



- 20 -
ANNEX II
SUB-PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS: Consolidated
Actual Rupees
Particulars                     Numbers                   (Million)
Total No. of Sub-Projects Financed             267
Total Investment                                         2,413.726
Total Amount Advanced by PCIs                                           1,035.028
Funded by the Bank                                            608.647
Average Size of Sub-ProjectProject                                            9.040
Average Size of Sub-Loan                                              3.877
No. of Jobs Created           15,216
Avg. No. of Jobs per Project              57
Investment per Job                                             0.159
Projects in Arrears (excl. closed)           145                         282.128
Closed Projects               I i                         29.444
Total in Arrears             160                          311.572
New Projects financed              208                              745
Existing Projects financed             31                              128
Geographical Disribution of Jobs
|                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Employmientl
|               ~~~~~~Number of Worksers in     Generaited                      Percentage|
Balochistan               98                             0.6%
N.W.F.P.               998                             6.6%
Punjab             9.373                           61.6%
Sindh             4,747                           31.2%
Totall           15.2 16                         100.0%|
Sub-Sectoral Distribution
Disbursemielti
Sector         No. of Projects                Amount in Rs.
Textile                    65                            33 1
Leather Goods. Tannerv                     9                             28
Sports Goods                      I                             10
Light Engineering                    26                             95
Oil Extraction                    13                            15
Cotton Ginning                     2 1                            31
Ice and Cold Storage                    9                              17
Marble Processing                      1                             4
Printing Publishing and Packing                   12                             39
Poultrv Farm and Feed                     4                              3
Soap and Detergent                      1                             2
Fruit, Vegetable, Food Processing                                                  8
Dairy Farming and Bakery                     19                             41
Hotel                      9                            40
Rice, Flour and Dal Milling                  20                              67
Miscellaneous                    55                            298
Totall                  267                           1,028



ANNEIX III
SU13-lPROJECT GOGIRAPH-IICALAND ANI) SUB-SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION
(lRs. nililioll)
PuIinj a b Lou ns                   Sinll il ..Loans                  N%VFP Loan s                 B|: Bc ii ist:hu Loan s                 Total Loan s
Ap)proved         i Disb u rsed    Aplprovedi         Disbursed       Approvedl    Disbursed          Approved         Disbtirse(i       Approved            Disbtirsed
Consolidatted Sector  No.   Amouint No.  Amouinit No.  Amount  No.  Amokint No. Amouint  No. Amounit No. Amount No. Amount No.    Amount  No.    Amount
'I'extile
Weaving    10       4-t.804   10      43.504    10      59.176    1()    58.013                                                                     20       103.980   20        101.517
Fillishing                                       1       6.300      1      3.978                                                                      1         6.300     1        3.978
Ready-Made Garments       3       16.186    2      13.544    6       15.115     6      15.1 I                                                                     9        31.301     8        28.659
Specialized'I'extilcs    29     0.196   26       0.161    10      38.288    10      36.088                                                                     39      234.375    36        197.286
Sub-lotal    42       0.257   38        0.218   27      118.879   27    113.194                                                                      69       375.956   65        331.440
I.eather Goods, Tannerv    6      21 522    6       20.896    2        2.752     2       2.752    1      3.878     1    3.878                                      9        28.152     9        27.526
Sports Goods      I       9.970     1      9.970                                                                                                          1        9.970      1        9.970
I.ight Engineering
Stcel [U:-toltiwl{/   5      Ij.430    5       15.430                                                                                                         5        15.430     5        15.430
,avam>lr3g
Flectrical    1       1.600    1        1.600    2       1 6.650    1       1. 55(                                                                    3        18.250    2          2.150
Workshop      4       11.286    4      11.286     1       0.700     1       (0.700                                                                     5        11.986     5       11.986
Nuitsand IBolts   1       2.252     1       2.252                                                                                                          1        2.252      1        2.252       t
W\ires and cables    2       7.51)0    2      7.50(1     1       1.183     1       1.183                                                                     3         8.683     3         8.683
Agriculti mal Impleniclits  I       L.j()()    I      I.5()()    1     2.1511     1      2 1511                                                                     2         3.65j(    2        3.651)
Auto ';arts    IS    -17.318   Ij      47.318    7       35-103     6       19.3(03    I    8.0-13    I    8.043                                      23        90.764    22        74.664
Sobl-Totals   I11     48.21 1    6      4X.218    7       35.0(13    6      1).3(03           8.(-I3   1    8.11043                                   24        ')1.664    23       75.564
Oil FmIracltioi    1-1   2-1 935   13      15.319                                                                                                        t 4       2-1.931    13       15.3-19
Cottion  ilinin    I')    25.21-1  19       25.156     1       4.0()0)   I       -1 1)1101                                                                21)       29.214   21)        2').156
Ic an1d Cold Sjora'eC  1)      18.7021    9     16.714    3       13.373                                                                                      13        32.0)75    9        16.714
Mlalbe P'rocessing     I      3.853     1       3.853                                                                                                          I        3.853      I        3.853
I'riiiliig l'bl)IislVjjgwand    I1  39.913   11   37.958     I       (1.9511   I       11.9'91                                                                   12       410.863    12       38.9(1O
I'otiltrv Farm and Fecd   1           10.0)20                 1      2.51()    3       2.i.10                                                                     4        12.560     3         2.540
Soap and Deltergent                                        I       1.60()    I       I .(()0                                                                   1         1.600     1         1.600
Fral. Vegetoble. 1Food                                       I       4.5411     1      *J.264    1     3.490     1    3.490)                                      2        8.0)30    2         7.754
rocessing,
Dairy Farming and Ilakery    4        9.987    4       9.066    14      31.646    14      3 1.598    1     0.600     1    0.600                                      19       42.233    19        41.264
I lotel   9      40.7(05    9     40.370                                                                                                          9        40.705     9       40.370
Rice Folor and Dlal NMlitIng    12   25.686   I 1     22.60)2    8      3-1.9'1()    8    3-1.940)    1    9.1t)()   1    9.1()()                                    2 1      69.720   20         66.642
Nliscaellaneolus    38   159.235   35      134.645   21      171.859    17    119.382    7    52.811      6    46.076    2    19.415    2       19.415   68        403.320    60.     319.518
Total   18-1    6950.37  173    60)3.()-13   89    33-1.523    81    33.1523   12    77.922    il    71.187    2    19.415    2        19A.415  287     1.214.856  267    1.028.168



- 22 -
ANNEX IV
ANALYSIS OF DATA BY TYPE OF BUSINESS, SUB-LOAN TERMS,
SUB-LOAN AMOUNT, VALUE OF TOTAL ASSETS AND FIXED ASSETS
No. of|
E          ~~Analysis of Data                        Sub-Projects               Percentage         |
Type of Business Entity
Public Limited Company                                                     1                      0.4%
Private Limited Company                                                  128                     47.9%
Partnership                                                               87                     32.6%
Sole Proprietorship                                                       51                     19.1%
Total                       267                    100.0%
Maturity Date of Sub-Loans
Maturity Date <= 5 Years                                                   3                      1.1%
Maturity Date > 5 and <= 6 Years                                          25                      9.4%
Maturity Date > 6 and <= 7 Years                                          34                     12.7%
Maturity Date > 7 and <= 8 Years                                          60                     22.5%
Maturity Date > 8 and <= 9 Years                                          38                     14.2%
Maturity Date > 9 Years                                                  107                     40.1%
Total                       267                    100.0%
Valtue of Sub-Loans
Total Loan <= 200,000                                                      4                      1.5%
TotaLl Loan = 200,001 - 500,000                                           14                      5.2%
Totail Loan = 500,001 - 1,000,000                                         35                     13.1%
Totcl Loan = 1,000,001 - 1,500,000                                        36                     13.5%
Total Loan = 1,500,001 - 3,000,000                                        61                     22.8%
Total Loan > 3,000,000                                                   117                     43.8%
Total                       267                    100.0%
Value of Total Assets
Total Assets <= 200,000                                                    1                      0.4%
Total Assets = 200,001 - 1,000,000                                         6                      2.2%
Total Assets = 1,000,001 - 1,500,000                                      21                      7.9%
Total Assets = 1,500,001 - 3000,000                                       36                     13.5%
Total Assets = 3,000,001 - 4,000,000                                      54                     20.2%
Total Assets > 4,000,000                                                 149                     55.8%
Total                       267                    100.0%
Value of Fixed assets
Total Assets <= 200,000                                                    0                      0.0%
Total Assets = 200,001 - 1,000,000                                         8                      3.0%
Total Assets = 1,000,001 - 1,500,000                                      12                      4.5%
Total Assets = 1,500,001 - 3,000,000                                      37                     13.9%
Total Assets =,3,000,001 - 4,000,000                                      34                     12.7%
Total Assets > 4,000,000                                                 176                     65.9%
Total                       267                    100.0%



-23 -
ANNEX V
EMPLOYMENT ANALYSIS
No. of Sub-              Amount              % of Total
Employees                           Projects             (Rs million)              Loan
Consolidated
Up to 20 Workers                                          42                     42                   4.1%
20 to 50 Workers                                          107                    288                 27.7%
51 to 100 Workers                                         84                     461                 44.43
Over 100 Workers                                          34                     247                 23.8%
Sub-Total                                                 267                  1,038                 100.0%
Allied Bank Ltd.
Up to 20 Workers                                           4                    3.750                 2.5%
20 to 50 Workers                                           4                   13.600                 9.2%
51 to 100 Workers            -                            11                   88.568                60.0%
Over 100 Workers                                           4                   41.768                28.3%
Sub-Total                                                 23                  147.686                100.0%
Habib Bank Ltd.
Jp to 20 Workers                                          17                   i7.677                 2.93
20 to 50 Workers                                          51                  157.041                25.8%
51 to 100 Workers                                         47                  279.366                46.0%
Over 100 Workers                                          20                  1'3.524                25.3%
Sub-Total                                                 135                 607.608                100.0%
Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd.
Up to 20 Workers                                           1                   0.890                  2.0%
20 to 50 Workers                                           5                   16.289                37.03
51 to 100 Workers                                          5                   !3.253                41.4%
5ver 100 Workers                                           2                   8.614                  19.63
Sub-Total                                                 13                   44.051                100.0%
National Bank of Pakistan
'o to 20 Workers                                           45496                                      7.9
20 to 50 Workers                                          22                   50.453                72.7%
51 to 100 Workers                                          5                   13.445                19.43
Dver 100 Workers                                                                                      0.0%
Sub-Total                                                 31                   69.394                100.0%
United Bank Ltd
Uo to 20 Workers                                          16                   14.541                 9.6%
20 to 50 Workers                                          25                   53.217                29.7%
51 to 100 Workers                                         16                   61;124                36.2%
Over 100 Workers                                           8                   43.CC5                25.53
Sub-Total                                                 65                  168.887                100.0%



- 24 -
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT (LOAN 2839-PAK)                                               ANNEX VI
SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER
TECHNOLOGY ANlD PRODUCTIVITY 8IUN  (TPF)
(US Dollars)
Serial No.                     Name of Project                      Approval No.             Amount Disbursed
1        International Polymer (Pvt) Ltd.                        TD-ID-01                   22.229.00
2        Mark Corporabon                                         TD-ID-06                    4,648.22
3        Siddicci Fashions                                       TD-ID-02                   22,061.12
4        Maqi Chemical Ind.                                      TD-ID-04                   22,208.14
5        Syed Machinery (Pvt) Ltd.                               TO-ID-05                   18,389.72
6        B.M.W. Industries (Pvt) Ltd.                            TD-ID-15                    4,230.27
7        Sigma Industries (Pvt) Ltd.                             TO-ID-13                  39,409.70
8        B.F. Sajjad Brothers                                    TD-ID-11                   10,379.80
9        Plastech Autosafe                                       TD-ID-14                   25,000.00
10       Providence Engg.                                        TD-ID-12                    21,732.71
11       Asia Classic                                            TD-ID-18                    9,082.33
12       B.M. Hoeopathic Pharmacy                                TD-ID-29                    20,262.45
13       Nazia Plastic                                           TD-ID-21                    11,555.00
14       Federal Engg.                                           TD-ID-09                    14,497.94
15       Hira Fuse Collar                                        TO-ID-15                    5,944.24
16       Motor Palace                                            TD-10-26                    4,020.73
17       Studio 9                                                 TD-ID-                     2,814.51
16       Shalimar Engineering Works                              TD-ID-27                    6,664.30
19       Sangeen Enterprises (Pvt) Ltd.                          TD-ID-25                    9,023.13
20        Mian Brothers Engg.                                    TD-1D-28                    8,141.96
21       Chughtai & Co.                                          TD-1D-23                    21,017.85
22        Myco Paint (Pvt) Ltd.                                  TD-ID-33                    19,831.42
23       Industrial Engg. Services                               TD-ID-36                    24,357.13
24        Bio Sabarkx                                            TO-ID-39                    22,504.22
25       Glassic Malamine Corporation                            TO-10-41                    14,393.93
26       Ahmed Brother Rubber                                    TD-ID-42                    10,024.62
27        Spectrum Chemicals                                     TD-ID-54                    20,822.99
28        Dynamic Sports (Pvt) Ltd.                              TD-ID-46                    5,187.66
29        FBM Engg.                                              TD-ID-26                    14.978.46
30        Estand Tobacco (Pvt) Ltd.                              TD-10-06                    1,187.78
31       Tahir Engg. Industries                                  TD-10-07                    3.935.02
32       Sira Engg (Pvt) Ltd.                                    TD-ID-53                    22,650.36
33       Continental Air System                                  TD-ID-35                    20,290.33
34       General Water and Engg.                                 TD-ID-37                    8,532.61
35        Brothers Paper (Pvt) Ltd.                              TD-10-40                    21,877.54
36       Accutech Ltd.                                           TD-10-038                   22,382.46
37       Medican Hospital                                        TD-ID-047                   5,562.42
38        Plastech Autosafe                                      TD-10-055                   16,597.59
39        Cast Master Co.                                        TD-10-051                   10,882.40
40        Danish Food (Pvt) Ltd.                                 TD-ID-017                   7,383.11
Total                                   577,000.00



- 25 -                         ANNEX -VII
PCIs STAFF TRAINING
PCI                              Staff Trained
ABL                                  106
MCB                                  61
NBP                                   91
UBL                                  126
IDBP                                  1 6
PICIC                                 1 8
NDFC                                  9
PBC                                   5
HBL                                  113
Total        545



- 26 -
APPENDIX - A
12 February 1996
PAKISTAN
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT (LOAN 2839-PAK)
The World Bank's Supervision and Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) Mission
Aidle-memoire
1.    A World Bank mission comprising A.H. Qureshi, Projects Adviser visited Karachi, Lahore
and Peshawar during end November and December, 1995 to supervise and start ICR preparation
concerning the Small Scale Industries III (SSI-III) project.
2.    While the mission concentrated mainly on the performance of the two remaining pre-
qualified PCIs namely, Habib Bank Limited (HBL) and Allied Bank Limited (ABL), meetings
were, also, held with the management of National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) and United Bank
Limited (UBL), which had earlier been suspended for not maintaining their eligibility criteria. As
the project closed on December 31, 1995, the mission held detailed discussions with the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) - the Apex Agency, their consultant - Financial and
Man-agement Services (FMS) and the PCIs (including MCB which had withdrawn from the project
after suspension) on the problems faced during project implementation and the lessons learnt to be
included in the ICR, in addition to any remaining issues which needed to be addressed before the
closing date.
3.    The mission visited 5 sub-projects in Lahore and one in Peshawar. In Karachi, sub-projects
were not visited due to the unsatisfactory law and order situation. The mission would like to place
on record its appreciation for the co-operation and assistance extended to it by all the institutions
visited. This aide-memoire, the last on the project is brief as the reasons for slow disbursement were
reviewed extensively during the previous mission (June 1995) and the same issues still existed and,
therefore, not being repeated here keeping in view the project closing on December 31, 1995.
Nevertheless, for easy reference these are included as Annexure- 1.
BACKGROUND
4.    The SSI-III Project, comprising US $ 54 million was approved by the Bank on June 16,
198,7, and became effective on March 8, 1988. The Government of Netherlands (GON) co-financed
Nlg 25 million (about US$ 12.5 million) as grant under the same project, of which Nlg 10 million
was for technical assistance and the remainder for sub-loans. Thus, total funds available under the
Project were $ 66.5 million. However, concerning the allocation for sub-loans under the Dutch
Grant, after disbursement of Nlg 2.122 million, remaining Nlg 12.878 million were canceled by the
Netherlands Government due to slow implementation and, also, funds being available under the
Bank's Loan. The allocation for the TA remained unaffected.
5.    Disbursements were slow for several reasons (see Annex- 1), and as a result the project was
restructured in February, 1993. Its implementation was, however, delayed till September 1993 due
to delay in reaching full agreement with GOP on the revised interest rates for the sub-borrowers. It
was further modified based on the recommendations of the October 1994 supervision mission.
Utilization improved beginning late 1994 after ADB's credit line had been fully utilized and the
restructuring measures became effective.



- 27 -
RECENT PERFORMANCE
6.    The Bank has disbursed US $ 21.27 million as of December 6, 1995, while total
commitments amount to about US $ 27 million. The PCIs approvals and disbursements under the
project amount to Rs 1,307 million and Rs 1,029 million respectively and the details are shown in
Table-I below:
Table -1
PCIs approvals and disbursements as of May 20. 1995
(Rupees Million)
Approvals                 Disbursement
PCI         Subprojects  Amount MRsO   Subprojects  Amount (Rs)
HIBL                     150         762.96          135         601.17
ABL                       32         250.28           23         150.15
NBP                       31          69.39           31          65.47
MCP                       13          44.05           13          44.05
UBL                       66         178.25           66         168.93
TOTAL                    292        1307.22          268        1029.00
7.    Outlook for utilization of the project funds: About $ 18 million have been disbursed so far
by IDBP for sub-project refinance to the PCIs. IDBP is arranging refinance of another $ 3 million.
Discussions with the PCIs indicate that about 12-15 sub-projects may not be fully disbursed as they
are unlikely to be completed by the closing date. Thus, total disbursement under the project is
unlikely to exceed $ 25 million. The PCIs suggested that final phases of construction of the sub-
projects under implementation be allowed to be completed upto March 1996 to be finally disbursed
upto April 30, 1996. They, also, suggested that delivery of equipment by March 31, 1996 against
L/Cs established before the closing date should be considered as eligible expenditure and
reimbursement be allowed to the PCIs upto April 30, 1996. The mission clarified that this is not
permissible under the rules and that such financing would need to be provided by the PCIs.
8.    Recoveries: The recoveries as of June 30, 1995 reported by the PCIs still eligible follow in
table-3 below:
Table-3
Recoveries of the PCIs%
Project      Habib Bank    Allied Bank
SSI-I                81            97
SSI-II              78             72
SSI-III             55             73
Average            71.3           80.7



- 28 -
The mission was concerned to note that HBL's recovery perfonnance had not improved
despite their management's assurances during the previous mission. The main reasons indicated
included Karachi situation and economic recession in the country, particularly in the textile sector
which accounts for more than half of the industry in Pakistan, while the legal system for recovery
of over due loans remained ineffective.
9.     An analysis of an FMS report indicates that HBL has the largest share at 59%  of the
disbursements. Regional share indicates Punjab at 54.4 %, Sind at 30.25 %, NWFP at 1 1.1 % and
Baluchistan at 4.2 %. Sub-loan size distribution indicates that 77.9 % were for above Rs 3 million
and 0.7 % for sub-loans up to Rs 0.5 million. As usual, textile sector led with 33.5 %, followed by
services and miscellaneous with 21.3 % share in the funding. Please refer to Annexure-II for furtlher
details.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
10.    The Dutch Grant (Nlg 10 million): The Bank has disbursed NIg 6 million (including
Special Account) for TA. While, IDBP is still working oni some of the details, estimates of
cc'mmitments and disbursements are shown in Table-4 below:
Table-4
Dutch Grant Technical Assistance commitments and disbursements
US $ million
Commitment   Disbursement
Technology & Productivity Fund (TPF)             825,000         390,000
Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS)
Training & Consultancy:
a) Apex consultant (FMS)                      260,000         228,000
b) TPF consultant                              40,000          38,000
c) Sector study                               237,000         138,000
d) Training                                   248,000         321,000
Total                        2,237,000       1,465,000
11.    Federal Bureau of Statistics: After extensive delay, The Director General, FBS advised
that an agreement has been reached with the supplier of the cartographic equipment for payment of
the difference resulting from the exchange rate fluctuation amounting to US $ 77,300. This amount
will be in addition to US $ 350,000 already disbursed and will be considered as part of their
alllocation of US $ 0.5 million. Arrangements have been made for payment of this amount. The
cartographic equipment imported earlier has now been unpacked and commissioned.
1.2.    Training: PCIs staff training had been discontinued earlier as the staff trained was generally
not being posted in positions where they could apply the skills learnt. Training courses during
second half of 1995 were restarted at the National Institute of Bankinig and Finance, Islamabad
which has high class facilities available and assurances had been received from the PCIs that they



- 29 -
which has high class facilities available and assurances had been received from the PCIs that they
will utilize the staff after training in the relevant fields. 552 officers of the banks were trained by
Pakistan Banking Council and National Institute of Banking and Finance. This has helped in
improving capacity of the PCIs in extending finance to industry and, particularly, the small sector.
For more details, please refer to annexure-III.
13.    Sector study: ISSAS have completed the study for improving SSI statistics and submitted
their report. Arrangements are being made for final payment.
14.    Technology and productivity fund (TPF): A substantial further breakthrough has taken
place as the eligibility criteria under the TPF grant are better understood by the participating
institutions (particularly IDBP) and the potential beneficiaries. 56 TPF sub-projects for US $ 0.82
million have been committed and are mostly under implementation. About US $ 0.4 million have
been disbursed. All the sub-projects disbursed so far have been through IDBP for which they need
to be congratulated. TPF consultant, Mr. Ghulam Kibria, whose contribution was found
commendable, has actively helped IDBP in identifying eligible sponsors. Other eligible institutions,
particularly, PICIC and NDFC have not disbursed to any sub-project, although, two sub-projects of
NDFC were approved by the Bank. The PCIS (banks), which were made eligible over two years
ago have, also, not contributed anything to this component of the project. The mission estimated
that about $ 0.7 million is likely to be disbursed against TPF allocation of $ 2.5 million.
ICR PREPARATION
15.    The Ministry of Finance is requested to prepare Part-II for the ICR providing the
Borrower's review of the project performance by end of January 1996 for incorporation in the ICR.
??? while, the mission requested IDBP anid the participating institutions to provide detailed
information on sub-project characteristics including size of sub-loans, sub-sectors, employment
generated, export performance where applicable, geographical distribution, new project or BMR,
commercial performance and loan repayments. The information requested is expected to be
received in February 1996.
CONCLUSIONS
16.    Out of $ 54 million available under the project, not more than about $ 25 million are likely
to be disbursed. From the Dutch Grant of NIg 10 million for technical assistance, not more than
about Nlg 5 million are likely to be utilized. Thus, funds utilization under the project is unlikely to
exceed 50% of the total available. However, many of the development objectives under the project
have been achieved through improving access of small industry to institutional finance. A detailed
review of the project's performance will be presented in the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) around the middle of the current year. GOP is requested to forward its own review of the
project performance for incorporation in the ICR as Part-LI by end of February, 1996.
17.   At the wrap up meeting held on January 11, 1996 the Ministry of Finance proposed that the
Bank consider extending the last date for disbursement of April 31, 1996 to allow for delayed
deliveries against letters of credits established before the closing date. The Mission clarified that
this is not possible under the rules, however, any specific cases may be referred to the Bank for
review.



- 30 -
Aide-Memoire
Annexure-l
The PCIs, potential sub-borrowers and others concerned indicated following reasons for
slow disbursements:
i)       Competition from cheaper funding e.g., State Bank of Pakistan's facility for
Locally Manufactured Machinery (LMM) at 13% (having been gradually raised
from 3% in the eighties).
ii)      Competition from lines of credit simpler to apply for and involving less sub-
project conditionalities and procedures e.g., Asian Development Bank's parallel
credit line and Opec Fund credit.
iii)     Cumbersome application formats and appraisal and approval procedures
followed by the PCIs.
iv)      Lack of adequate marketing effort by the PCIs in term financing generally.
v)       Lack of a conducive industrial environment obtaining in the Country. Among
these may be listed such factors as: (a) Over involvement of GOP departments
and functionaries, (b) Inconsistent GOP policies applicable to trade and
industry, (c) Increasing competition from imports due to reduction in tariffs,
and (d) the general lack of sponsor interest in industry due to disturbed
conditions in Karachi.
vi)      Increased collateral requirement of the PCIs due to the high default rate of
repayment by sub-borrowers.
vii)      Slump in the cotton textile industry, which has been one of the major areas of
industrial growth.
viii)    Low maximum fixed cost per job allowed under sub-project eligibility even
though it was raised to Rs. 400,000 under the restructuring.



-31 -
APPENDIX- B
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
SSI-III had the following specific objectives:
1.    Promote the development of SSI units preferably those which are export oriented and/or
are efficient in import substitution by providing finances for long term requirement.
2.    Increase the availability of development credit for SSI units.
3.    Identify and assist those sub-sectors which have indicated growth potential.
4.    Promote development of SSI units based on local raw materials.
5.    Suggest policy reform in order to encourage greater efficiency in SSI sector.
6.    Provide special assistance in promoting S51 projects in under-developed areas.
7.    Provide finance to SSI sub-projects with high financial and economic
8.    Strengthen the financial institutions involved in SSI lending through technical assistance
training and improvement of operating systems and procedures.
9.    promote a financial environment which encourages the financial institutions to expand
their SSI lending by allowing them to mobilize appropriate resources and operate
profitably on their SSI portfolio.
10.   Establish a stronger export marketing infrastructure through the promotion of export
houses.
11.   Improve efficiency of Industrial Units through a program of technology transfer and
12.   Improve the accuracy and reliability of SSI statistics for policy and development strategy
formulation.
2.    The credit of US $ 54 million extended by IBRD for the development of SSI sector
through the network of Banks (PCIs) at the rate of 14% per annum was approved by World Bank
on June 16,1987 and became effective on March 8, 1988 with the credit termination date of
December 31, 1995. However, due to slow utilization, the loan was restructured by the World
Bank which was finally approved by GOP on September 27, 1993. The total amount of
refinance paid to PFIs as on December 31, 1995 was 20.61 million while commitments were
more than US $ 27 million. However, the total amount of utilization as on April 30, 1996, the
account closing date, was US$ 21.164 million which comes to 39.19% of the total amount of
credit line (project loan).
3.    Besides the second portion of this credit was Dutch Grant. Dutch Government extended
a grant of DFL 25 million equivalent to US $ 12.5 million through World Bank out of which US
$ 7.5 million was earmarked for project financing and remaining US $ 5.00 million was
earmarked as Technology Assistance component for consultancy services. Technology and
Productivity Fund and improvement in statistical data of Federal Bureau of Statistics
Government of Pakistan . Out of US $ 7.5 million technical assistance component, only US $ 1.
099 million was utilized by 14 projects and the remaining US $ 6.401 million was suspended by
World Bank on February 22, 1994. However, out of technology assistance component of US $ 5
million, the total utilization was 3.171 million which comes to 63.40%. since the date of initial
loan agreement to the terminal date, the credit line remained problematic due to the following
reasons:
a)    The onlending interest rate of World Bank loan was enhanced from 14% to 18%.
Therefore, clients opted for general advance to avoid cumbersome procedure of
World Bank credit line.
b)    The credit was in US dollars while its utilization was in Pak Rupees. The rupee
has depreciated by over .56% since the effectiveness of the credit line (Rs 17.5
$1 to Rs 34.5 $1). As such the amount of rupee loans required to be approved
and disbursed is continuously increasing restricting the blending and limit.



- 32 -
c)    Availability of cheaper line of credit to PCIs from the SBP for LMM and
availability of ADB credit No.902-Pak on softer terms and conditions.
d)    Delay of nearly one and a half years in the finalization of changes related to
terms and conditions pertaining to sub-projects and sub-loan sizes and the rate of
interest etc. and blending of LMM loan etc.
e)    A large number of cases involving substantial amount. sanctioned under World
Bank loan were transferred to ADB credit as these cases exceeded eligibility
criteria and the World Bank had not enhanced the size of the loan.
f)    The major impediments which made the prospective borrowers to abandon the
loan proposals was lengthy and cumbersome loan application forms prescribed
earlier.
g)    Eligibility of only two PCIs as others were debarred in Nov., 1991.
h)    Cost per job was restricted to Rs 0.20 million which was enhanced in late 1994
to
i)    Despite best efforts by GOP/lDBP, World Bank had not allowed extension in the
terminal date by which many cases which were approved by the World Bank just
before the terminal date could not get financed under this credit due to shortage
of time.
j)     The T.A. component of Dutch grant was passed on to the sub-projects as a grant,
however, GOP insisted on its repayment with interest. This issue was resolved
after a long period which delayed the utilization of T.A. component.
10. For the improvement in the utilization of credit line following measures were taken:
a)    Revised and more simplified formats of Preliminary Detailed Loan Application
Forms prepared by FMS approved by PCIs were printed and supplied by PCIs to
all their field offices for supply to their clients.
b)    Systems of loan approvals and documentation leading to quicker disbursement
of loan proceeds were also improved
c)    PCI's Head Offices issued comprehensive instructions to their delegated
offices/branches efforts to build a pipeline of projects which could be appraised
speedily and loans; approved and disbursed. In this context, certain indicative
targets were also given by PCIs to their Phase/field offices
d)    Publicity campaign was also launched elaborately to attract prospective clients
through print and electronic media (TV).
e)    Respective Chambers of Commerce and Industry were also contacted by senior
executive of PCIs to obtain their cooperation for early utilization of the credit
line.
f)    M/S Financial & Management Service (Pvt) Ltd., (FMS) a renowned consultant
were also engaged. FMS set up arrangements with HBO and ABLE under which
implementation of previous decisions and progress under each head were
reviewed by the Policy Adviser and Team Leader of FMS with the Presidents
and Senior Executives at least once a month.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16248R4
64                                    68                                  T A J I K I S T A Nj:
CHI NA
PAKISTAN                                                    .*  ,/
-36                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           c          r
a     CITIES AND TOWNS                                              I.
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND  SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
+     AIRPORTS                                                        Chosodpprome ine of Control
-   -    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                        IVN  shemo
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        (-  -        l       ,rad
RIVERS                                                                      Rocwlpnd   JAMMU and KASHMIR
32-                                                                                                               dha                       32
-28-                                                     K         JXc         ,        //2
R EPU BL IC  OF  '-*Pj                                     I          W     DP     '  
,J        Wi                     { \              '<                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50    100    150    200    250
(  N/  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~terc infonr,t.owoshoh i,nLE
24                                                                                                         00 77is ~nog, do  not
AFGlEB o1 NISaAN  o4
Dhe porldpan- ro
7~~~~~~~~~2
lot~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAY19



