Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1950 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%); Law and justice 
(20%); Central government administration (20%); Other social 
services (20%) 
Project ID 
P090875 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 10, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 3, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
January 16, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Cape Verde is a volcanic archipelago, west of Senegal.  Its economy has been dominated in turn by 
agriculture, fisheries, and services.  Agriculture frequently suffers from drought, leading to high 
emigration from rural areas t
o
cities or abroad.  Half of the archipelago’s population of 470,000 lives in 
rural areas across the islands.  Recent economic trends have been positive.  Real economic growth
 
in 
Cape Verde has been strong (5 percent p.a.) on average over the past seven years ending in 2002.  Much 
of this success is due to strong growth in services, part of which has been supported by high FDI in the 
context of the privatization of utilities, and the expansion of the tourism sector.  However, the poor 
performance of agriculture has limited its attractiveness to new investors, including banks.  The poor in 
Cape Verde are concentrated in remote rural areas, while some of them feed the strong rural-urban 
migration.  Moreover, Cape Verde’s status as a small open economy, and its high dependence on 
imports makes it vulnerable to external shocks, this in turn affects the Government’s expenditure plans. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The PRSC would provide support to the Government to achieve key PRSP objectives.  By providing the 
necessary external financing, it would support the Government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic 
framework, an essential underpinning for achieving the economy’s growth potential and reducing 
poverty as targeted under the PRSP.  Beyond supporting macroeconomic stability, the second PRSC will 
focus on a few core sectors for which the Bank has been providing advice in the context of the PRSP, 
and of PRSC1, and that have emerged as critical to rapid poverty relief.  Specific actions to consolidate 
state reform will focus on decentralization, civil service reform, and the modernization of the state.  
Their implications for budget management will lead to support for specific actions for budget 
preparation, execution (including procurement) and reporting (including audits).  Sector-specific 
interventions aim at supporting human development, in health (improve the health information system to 
better inform policy choices, and help select public interventions within a limited envelope); education 
(improve quality, and manage the transition to secondary education of primary school graduates); and 
social protection (redesign schemes to target the poor, rationalize non-contributory pensions, and pilot 
flexible community-based schemes). 
 
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
With its second PRSC, the Bank proposes to continue to support PRSP implementation.  The 
preparation of PRSC 1 led to the adoption of a three-year matrix, and the PRSC 2 will continue to assist 
the Government in implementing key reform issues identified under PRSC 1.  
 
4. Financing 
 
US$10 million equivalent at standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a ten-year grace period.   
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The PRSC is overseen by the country GPRSP Steering Committee.  Under the umbrella of the Ministry 
of Finances, all ministries involved in the three GPRSP pillars supported by the PRSC are involved in 
PRSC design, implementation and monitoring (i.e., Public Administration and Civil Service, Justice, 
Education, Health, Labor and Solidarity).  Public financial management has been improving steadily in 
line with government commitment to reform, and dialogue between the Government and donors has 
been constructive.  The public financial management system is reasonably adequate to support the 
PRSC. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
In terms of benefits, the value added of the PRSC lies in both the nature of the instrument and the results 
that are expected: (i) improved functioning of national budget systems, (ii) reduced transaction costs and 
distortions due to international assistance, (iii) better linkages between sectors and cross-cutting issues, 
(iv) improved service delivery for the poor, and (v) improved well-being of the population. 
 
The main risks associated with PRSC-2 are: (i) macroeconomic shocks could undermine stability and 
growth; (ii) the forthcoming national elections could bring about fiscal slippages and stall 
implementation of the more sensitive policy reforms, and possibly delays in general Government’s 
strategy implementation. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Given the overall thrust of the PRSC series, no negative impacts on vulnerable groups are envisaged.  
To the contrary, all the measures considered will result either in improved overall well-being because of 
better governance and more efficient and equitable government services, or in specific gains for the 
poorest and most vulnerable members of society because of efforts to reach those with difficult access to 
basic services, including social protection and safety nets.  In particular, gender issues are mainstreamed 
throughout the PRSC, and gender disaggregated performance indicators will be tracked in all relevant 
sectors.  Also, the Government has gone to considerable lengths to ensure that its actions are the true 
expression of the collective will, and has consistently and actively involved specific stakeholders and 
citizens at large throughout the process leading to and accompanying the PRSC series.  No negative 
environmental impacts are expected from this operation.   
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Maurizia Tovo 
Title: Sr. Social Protection Specialist 
Page  3
Tel: (202) 473-7579 
Fax: (202) 473-8216 
Email: Mtovo@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
