Docun=t Of
The World Bank
FOx OmCIAL USE ONLY
LA) - 2qsl5- pE
Repwt No_ P-3839-PE
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION
OF THiE
PRESIDENr OF THE
INrEItATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTwCTION AND DEVELOPmEN
TO 'IE
EXECUTIVE DIRTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$82.5  lLLION
TO THE
REPUJBLIC OF PERU
F OR IRE
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJET
June 1, 1984
Thi doeente  w a resticted distribution ad my be used by reiit maly in the jefuane Of
their otida dutieds Its coutents maY not othrwise be dissd witho_ World Buk auboriuatio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily, roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1983 and as of May 15, 1984 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (SJ.)
1983 Average                     !!ay 15. 1984
US$1              S/. 1,629                        S/. 3,02.5
S/. 1             US$0.0006                        US$0.0003
S/. 1,000         US$0.61                         US$0.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CmC         -  Comision Multisectorial Coordinadora
(Multisectoral Coordinating Commission)
ESMLL       -  Empresa de Servicios Municipales de Limpieza de Lima
(Municipal Solid Waste Corporation)
E.NMSA      -  Empresa de Mercados Mayoristas S.A.
(Wholesale Market Corporation)
GTZ         -  Gesellschaft fiur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance Agency)
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
INVEUMET    -  Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones en Fideicomiso
(Metropolitan Investment Fund)
MUL         - Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana
(Municipality of Metropolitan Lima)
MTC         - Ministry of Transport and Communications
OxTU        -  Oficina Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos
(MXetropolitan Urban Transport Office)
OPDM        -  Oficina del Plan de Desarrollo Metropolitano
(Metropolitan Development Planning Office)
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
USAID       - United States Agency for Interaational Development



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELuPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru
*         Beneficiaries:       Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MLM) and Wholesale
Market Corporation (EMMSA).
Amount:              US$82.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Termi;               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    For the market subproject, the Borrower would on-lend
US$22.4 million equivalent for 17 years including six
years of grace with the same interest rate as the Bank
Loan. EMMSA would bear the dollar-sol exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would support (a) the progressive
transfer of urban administration from national to local
government, and specifically, more efficient metropolitan
management in Lima, the capital of Peru, as well as (b)
improvements in high priority infrastructure and services
in the areas of urban transport, solid waste and whole-
sale marketing. About 53 percent of benefits from the
infrastructure and services improvements would accrue to
low-income residents. Principal subprojects would be:
(i) traffic management improvements throughout the city,
paviug of about 100 km of streets in low-income areas and
road rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) construction of
a new wholesale market; (iii) provision of vehicles,
equipment and transfer station capacity and development
of two landfill sites to meet dhe needs of the city's
solid waste agency and the city districts; and (iv)
institutional strengthening through studies, technical
assistance and training of the agencies charged with each
of the above activities as well as improvements in city
planning, municipal finance and coordination of urban
ir.vestments and project administration.
Special Risks:       Risk of local funding difficulties during a period of na-
tional austerity would be addressed by relying mainly on
local funding from an earmarked source (gasoline tax re-
venues). Risk of inadequate professional staff within
the Municipality would be mitigated by requiring con-
tracting of implementation advisors initially for the
largest subproject, transport, and by providing training
for municipal staff. Any problems of coordination
between national and municipal agencies would be eased by
the Multisectoral Coordinating Commission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs *                                 Local     Foreign   Total
~~ - US$ million
(a)  Urban Transport                         26.6       33.6      60.2
(b)  Wholesale Market                        15.4        9.3      24.7
{c)  Solid Waste                              2.0        7.4       9.4
(d)  Urban Management and Project             2.2        4.2       6.4
Administration
(e)  Project Preparation Facility             0.0        1.0       1.0
Base Cost                          46.2       55.5    101.7
Contingencies: Physical             5.1        4.7      9.8
Price               9.2       12.1     21.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           60.5       72.3    132.8
Interest during construction of market        0.2        2.7       2.9
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                    0.0        0.2       0.2
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                     60.7       75.2    135.9
Financing Plan                                    Local     Foreipn   Total
i-US$ million -
World Bank                                    13.3      69.2      82.5
Government, EMMSA and INVERMET               47.4        0.0      47.4
GTZ                                            0.0       1.0       1.0
Suppliers Credits                             0.0        5.0       5.0
TOTAL                                        60.7       75.2    135.9
Estimated Disbursements
bank FY             1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
US$ million
Annual              16.7   27.1   22.5    7.5    3.U    2.0    3.3    0.4
Cumulative          16.7   43.8   66.3   73.8   76.8   78.8   82.1   82.5
*1 Project costs include USS9.0 million in identifiable taxes and duties.



- iii -
Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return is estimated at around
70 percent for those parts of the project with
directly quantifiable benefits. These represent 78
percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4781-PE, dated May Z9, 1984.
.
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMHENDATION OF ThE PRESiDEN1 OF TIE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$82.5 million to help finance
the Lima Metropolitan Development Project. The proposed loan would have a
term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. For the market construction, the borrower would on-lend
US$22.4 million to the Wholesale Market Corporation for a term of 17 years,
including six years of grace, at the same interest rate as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled  Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations- (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the findings of that report,
on that of an economic mission to Peru in July/August 1982 and of follow-up
missions in February and September 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Anaex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
acdivity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popu-
lation; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). Thne country's rugged topography limits trade among the three re-
gions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals-par-
ticularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc-located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa, and substantial petroleum resources in the Selva and off-
shore, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major
natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although
the catch is subject to sharp fluctuations. Only a small portion of Peru's
total land area is arable, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agri-
culture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is ex-
pected to remain the major energy source through the rest of this century.
After discovery of oil in the Selva, Peru's domestic oil production more than
doubled between 1977 and 1982 to over 195,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it
became a net exporter of about 62,00U bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net
petroleum exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated
secondary recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of



rational pricing policies to contain demand growth. Prices for domestically
consumed petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In
addition, new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to do-
mestic and foreign investors.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 19bOs, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urban-
ization process and improved education. But with declining death rates,
population has continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and
1951 to 17 million. Preliminary 1981 census information indicates that fer-
tility declined by 20 percent during the past decade and the current rate of
population growth has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also indicates
that the reduction in population growth is most marked among the 65 percent
of the population living in urban areas. The Government is quite popula-
tion-conscious and is now supporting a family planning program.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at premoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern of asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization of pro-
duction and distribution activities, and through a sweeping land reform.
however, many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an ex.cessive cost,
and their implementation was inefficient. In particular, expansionary fiscal
and credit policies between 1968 and 1977 produced strong inflationary pres-
sures and expanded external borrowing, raising Peru's external debt to almost
US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness); about two-third's of
GDP. By mid-1978, the country was in the midst of a severe financial crisis;
inflation had accelerated to an annual rate of about 100 percent and the
banking system's net international reserves dropped to a negative level of
USS1 billion. Peru was no longer able to service its foreign obligations.
8.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of tb- stabilization program, and carried
out major debt-relief operations, postponing repayment of about US$1 billion
due in 1979/80 to the 1982-1986 period. The Government then adopted a com-
plementary Economic Recovery Program, which included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system, and
generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation in the private and
public sectors.  These policy changes-together with a declining domestic
market because of the recession-resulted in a large increase in the value of
manufactured exports, from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81. The Government also drew up a public se^tor in-
vestment program emphasizing projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. To support the program, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in Mlay 1979.
9.        The Government's stabilizarion-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. The
overall public sector deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to



- 3 -
1.7 percent in 1979, and the more careful management of public finances had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in
petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of Peru's terms of trade gen-
erated a surplus in the current account of the balance of payments in 1979
and equilibrium in 1980. At year end 1980, the net reserve position had im-
proved to about US$1.3 billion. Growing incomes as a result of good external
sector performance and, in 1980, a reacceleration of public sector expendi-
tures, resulted in renewed growth of GDP, at an average rate of 3.9 percent
in 1979-1980. However, the public sector deficit increased again to six per-
cent of GDP in 1980, and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
*         10.       After a new constitution was written by a popularly elected con-
stituent assembly, elections were held in May 1980, and the winner, President
Fernando Belaunde, was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. lis Government faced a
challenging situation with severe structural weaknesses which had been only
temporarily attenuated by the improvements in the terms of trade and the re-
sumption of growth. The new Government was committed to structural transfor-
mation based on opening up the economy; encouragement of private sector ini-
tiative and reduced public sector participation in economic activities; and
improved efficiency in the remaining public sector activities. Its reliance
on, and promotion of, private initiative, in particular, distinguish the pre-
sent Government's philosophy and economic program from that of its immediate
predecessors.
11.       The Government was successful in accelerating import liberalization
by eliminating non-tariff barriers and lowering tariffs, and in streamlining
export incentives. At the same time, new legislation was enacted for the
agricultural, mining and petroleum sectors, offering greater incentives to
investors. Substantial changes were made in the financial sector, through
upward adjustments of the interest rate, and reduction of legal reserve re-
quirements. The Government also made progress in correcting major price dis-
tortions by reducing food subsidies, eliminating some price controls and ad-
justing periodically public utility and petroleum product prices. Finally,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing-
--an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative Group meeting
in May 1981-and initiated actions to strengthen public sector institutions.
Recent Developments and Outlook
12.       Unfortunately, the 1981-83 world recession made Peru's adjustment
difficult. In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, the world
demand for Peru's main exports declined, interest rates on the country's ex-
ternal debt increased to an all-time high, and the terms of trade fell by 10
percent as a result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of
these external events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at US$740
million. A substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate
of almost 12 percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly
public) allowed GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial output
stagnated, mining fell by four percent, the public sector deficit increased
to about eight percent of GDP and the current account of the balance of pay-
ments closed with a deficit of US$1.7 billion.
13.       By 19J2, economic activity was slowing down, world commodity prices
continued to fall, and the public sector deficit had also increased. The
G(verament adopted an austerity program designed to reduce the public sector



- 4 -
deficit and regain external equilibrium. Peru's mini-devaluations were
accelerated and exceeded domestic inflation by a wide margin, thus restoring
part of the competitiveness lost in previous years. In June 1982, the IMF
approved an SDK 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support
Peru's stabilization ano structural adjustment efforts. The current account
deficit in the balance of payments was reduced slightly (to USS1.6 billion)
in 1982, in spite of lower export prices, but GDP growth slowed to less than
one percent, industrial output fell more than two percent, the public sector
deficit rose to 8.8 percent of GDP, and inflation continued at more than 70
percent.
14.       The still sizeable public sector and current account deficits, com-
bined with the reduced availability of external loans from international com-
mercial banks, encouraged the Government to try to accelerate the adjustment
process in 1983. The new measures included a large cut in public investment,
acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied goods and services,
and faster reduction of food subsidies. Also, the Government followed a
resttictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations from January to August
1983 again exceeded domestic inflation.
15.       Peru's economic difficulties, ho-ever, were compounded by natural
disasters suffered during the first half of 1983. Heavy rains flooded the
northern part o: the country; there was also a severe drought in the south,
massive landslides in the central area, and a reduction in the fish catch.
Most of these were linked to a change in El Nino, a current in the Pacific
Ocean off the Peruvian coast, which also affected weather in other parts of
the world. These disasters were costly; replacing the damaged infrastructure
may require over US$500 million (about 40 percent of the 1983 public invest-
ment budget). Output losses were also substantial. Agricultural production
was particularly hard hit in the north of Peru where cotton crops were de-
stroyed. Flooding of the Talara oil fields and damage to the trans-Andean
pipeline caused a 12 percent drop in oil produc:ion (to an average of 172,000
bpd), and a ten percent fall in petroleum exports.
16.       The combined impact of the natural disasters, low commodity prices,
limited access to external borrowing and the high debt burden produced a
severe economic recession in 1983; GDP fell by about 1U percent, with all
sectors showing a decline in output. At the same time, inflation accelerated
to 125 percent, partly because of the natural disasters but also because of
inflationary expectations fueled by the mini-devaluations. The current
account deficit in the balance of payments was further reduced, but only
because of much lower imports. Financing of even this reduced deficit re-
quired a renegotiation of the commercial bank debt (in March 1983) and of the
debt to Paris Club member countries (in July 1983). The commercial bank debt
was rescheduled in the context of a "jumbo  loan that also provided -or
US$450 million of tresh money. Public sector revenues also declined sub-
stantially in 1983 because of the recession, and the public sector deficit
(about 10 percent of GDP) far exceeded the Government's programmed target.
17.       By the eiidl or i983, it was clear to the Government that its EFF
program could not be placed on track, so it negotiated with the IMF an 18-
month standby to replace the final period of the EFF. The standby arrange-
ment was approved by ,:he IMF Board in April 1984. As part of ics new pro-
gram, the Government authorized advanced interest payments on deposits to



- 5 -
allow effective rates to become positive in real terms. It also raised
electricity and water rates in real terms and confirmed its tight monetary
program. On the strength of the negotiated standby, Peru's commercial
creditor banks agreed to a rescheduling of US$1.5 billion amortizatioa due
them between January 1984 and July 1985. The standby also lays the ground
for a Paris Club meeting, expected in early June, to reschedule 1984/85
maturities and interest payments. There of course, remains a continuing need
for official development assistance, including local cost financing. Peru's
economic recovery will depend greatly on recovery in the developed
countries-the chief market for its important mineral exports and
manufactured exports. Nevertheless, sound domestic policies are also
critical for this recovery. Provided the Government maintains its new
program, economic growth may resume after 1984. A medium-term growth of
about four-five percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation would then be possible, and Peru will remain creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
18.       The Bank has approved 56 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,559.4 million, net of cancellations. About 24 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports', 27
percent for agriculture, 21 percent for the energy sector, 11 percent for
mining and industry, about nine percent for education, health and urban
development, seven percent for a program loan in support of the Economy
Recovery Program in 1979, and one percent for a technical assistance oper-
ation.
19.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their dis-
bursement status as of !Sarch 31, 1984.  As of this date, US$732.8 million was
undisbursed; this figure reflects many recently approved loans (11 in 1982-
83). Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of coun-
terpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this period.
Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the Bank and
Government to correct the situation by: inter alia, (i) opening a Bank
resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving pro-
jects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and re-
solve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. Disburse-
ments on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5 million in
FY81, US$75.8 million in FY82 and US$85.7 million in FY83. This compares
with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in:
(i) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors, i.e., petroleum,
agriculture and mining; (ii) the strengthening, through technical assistance
loans and regular operations, of public sector management, including more
effective economic policies; (iii) the creation of the physical infrastruc-
ture needed to sustain and foster economic development; and (iv) the improve-
ment of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank
lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power



sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields--petroleum, agriculture, mining, and industry-to help Peru
to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also
grown and will be stepped up further in the future. The proposed project
addresses both the objectives of strengthening of public sector management
and the improvement in living conditions of the urban poor. In addition,
Peru has been approved as eligible for the Bank's Special Action Program
(SAP) and seven projects are receiving support under that program. Future
operations are being prepared in industry, education, water and power.
21.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.0 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1983, and ab-
sorbed about nine percent of the country's public external debt service in
1983 (taking into account the effects of the rescheduling of 1983 principal
and interest payments). Although Peru is expected to continue to seek long-
term bilateral and multilateral aid, the Bank's share in the country's out-
standing public foreign debt by 1985 should remain about six percent, with
its share of debt-service around 4.5 percent, assuming the relatively modest
Bank lending program expected over the next two years.
22.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1984 were US$41.2 million (includ-
ing US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone
Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.1 million is held by the Corporation.
A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1984 is presented in
Annex II.
23.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1983
were US$1.4 billion and about US$400 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1982 were estimated at 1.7 percent and 0.9
percent, respectively. In its future operations, IDB is expected to empha-
size lending for agriculture, industry, energy, mining, roads, and small-
scale irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural and urban development
and health.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urbanization and the Primacy of Lima
24.       The population of the Lima Metropolitan area grew from 3.2 million
in 1972 to 5.1 million in 1983 and will probably reach at least eight million
by the end of the century. Nevertheless, its 1972-1981 annual growth rate
was under 3.8 percent compared to 6.1 percent between 1961 and 1972. Many
secondary cities in Peru are now growing faster than Lima, so that the trend
of the national urban system is toward greater balance. Still, Lima is more
than double the size of all secondary cities over 100,000 population
combined. It accounts for 28 percent of national population and 53 percent
of total urban population (i.e., in centers above 20,000). The metropolitan
area produces about half of GDP, including more than 90 percent of national
output of capital goods, two-thirds of consumer goods and almost all finan-
cial services.



- 7 -
25.       While Lima's size suggests that it should have first priority in
resource allocation, in the longer run, complementary public investments in
secondary cities are also justified on equity and regional economic grounds.
However, Lima, and the urban sector generally, have been deprived of public
investment since 1968 because of Governments' rural bias and, more recently,
budgetary constraints. This failure to invest in urban areas is now impair-
ing efficiency and adversely afiecting household welfare, already reduced by
falling real wages in recent years.
26.       The concentration of economic activity in the Lima area makes it
vital that the city be well managed and maintained, which is not presently
the case.  Furthermore, the capital's economic activity has not been associ-
ated with improved incomes of its population. About 54 percent of its house-
holds are absolutely poor (earning less than $167 per month in 1981 prices);
62 percent are relatively poor (with $225 per month). Over 60 percent live
in slums in the city center (tugurios) or periphery (pueblos jovenes). Popu-
lation is still growing faster than the expansion rate of public services.
National Urban Policy
27.       Various strategies have beeni proposed to discourage the growth of
Lima. The 1975-1980 Administration backed a plan to integrate Lima with
major towns in the country's Central Region. The present Government supports
a "decongestion corridor" to promote urban growth north and south of Lima,
but, except for a coastal highway and a new port, few actions have been taken
to achieve this objective. In any case, the industrial potential of these
poles is too limited to assure that such a strategy would have a real impact
on decongesting Lima. To invest in either area is a high-risk strategy,
because without a full range of incentives to draw the population away from
Lima, there would be a probability of underutilized infrastructure. Moreover
the spontaneous deceleration of Lima's growth makes strategies to disperse
economic activity and population of dubious merit. The Bank has been discus-
sing these issues with the country in the context of its sector dialogue.
28.       Peru has one of the most centralized systems of urban management in
Latin America. The local sector accounts for only two percent of consoli-
dated public sector expenditures. The need to revise this system by trans-
ferring responsibilities to local governments (devolution) was recognized in
the 1979 Constitution. The development of a sound urban management and in-
vestment strategy for Lima would be the core of a national devolution policy;
the proposed project is an important element in this strategy.
Lima Metropolitan Government
29.       Metropolitan Lima is a province and the provincial government
(Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana-MLM) is headed by an elected metropol-
itan council which sets policies for the metropolitan area ard has a munic-
ipal coordination assembly made up of the 41 district mayors. The chief
executive officer is the MLM Mayor, elected at three-year intervals. Because
of the continued high degree of district administrative independence,
however, coordination within MLM remains difficult.
3U.       MLM controls a Municipal Investment Fund (INVERMET) and a city
solid waste company (ESMLL) as well as 12 executive departments.  INVERMET is
MLM's trust fund set up to finance infrastructure improvements. Its main



- 8 -
source of income is an earmarked transfer of national gasoline tax revenues,
which totalled about US$7 million in 1983. Street maintenance is mainly a
responsibility of the districts, although the Transport Ministry maintains
some intercity roads. Retail markets are traditionally also a district res-
ponsibility but wholesale markets are managed by a national body, the Whole-
sale Market Corporation (DEMSA), under the Ministry of Agriculture with
little coordination until now with other metropolitan activities. ESYML is
responsible for transfer of solid waste and the landfills in the metropolitan
area. The collection of solid waste is mainly done by the municipal dis-
tricts; ESMLL collects only in the central business districts. National
corporations are also in charge of city electricity, water, sewerage and
telecommunications, and act independently. To handle the transfer of key
functions from central to municipal government as mandated by the 1979 Con-
stitution, a multisectoral commission was established. MIM has set up its
own planning office to replace the o-ae which operated in the National Housing
and Urban Development Ministry, and is also establishing a metropolitan urban
transport office.  They are thus in a position to assume responsibility for
the planning and transport functions, which have been transferred to the
local level.
31.       Historically, MLM has had few autonomous budgetary resources, yet
Ceentral Government transfers have been declining. Of MLM's total 1983 budget
of US$56 million (a low US$11.00 per capita), 15 percent was financed fzom
Central Government transfers compared to 22 percent in 1981. Most expendi-
tures cover operating costs; only 11 percent went for capital outlays in
1983. In the absence of increased financial resources and stronger financial
management, MLM's assumption of greater functional responsibilities is bound
to proceed slowly.
32.       Planning in Lima is presently limited to control of current devel-
opment, based on the land use expectations of an obsolete 1912 comprehensive
plan. Unanticipated growth of peripheral slums and the assumptions that an
urban rail system would be built (which never materialized) have altered pro-
posed patterns of land use and density. The need for a comprehensive strat-
egy to guide land use and transport development is urgent. With regard to
staffing, low municipal salary levels make it difficult to attract and retain
qualified senior staff and managers, and no systematic training presently
exists within MKM. The proposed project would provide training and technical
assistance to staff involved in project execution.
Urban Transport
33.       All transport in Lima is by road.  Traffic congestion, with resul-
tant delays for passengers and goods and excessive fuel use, is common.
Accident rates are high. The main cause of these problems is mismanagement
and inefficient use of roadways, including poor signing and channelization
and uncoordinated traffic signals. Provision of road and bus service has not
kept pace with demand, particularly for densely-populated low-income neigh-
borhoods in the city outskirts, where streets are generally unpaved. This is
worsened by the deterioration of the existing road network, as a result of
inadequate maintenance.
34.       Buses are the main transport mode for low-income groups, but
serious lack of capaci_y has caused excessive waiting times to travel on
overcrowded buses. Recently, in an effort to correct this, the Government



- 9 -
allowed importation of new buses; imports of 1,300 have been contracted so
far. Route structure has evolved into a system of winding routes all enter-
ing the central area. Fares have been control-Led and the leading private
operator is reporting losses.  While two sep.rate stud-es (1972 and 1982)
recommended mass transit systems for the city (ucderground or light rail),
available data do not permit proper evaluation of mass transit alternatives.
Therefore, it was agreed that a study of such alternatives would be financed
under the Bank's Public Sector Management Loan (2204-PE of December 16,
1982). The Government and MLM would furnish the bank an impact analysis of
any resulting proposal to undertake a transport investment of over US$10
million in the Lima area during project execution, and allow the Banic. an op-
*         portunity to comment.  Any such investment that would adversely affect the
transport subproject of the proposed project would be an event for suspension
of disbursements (Section 4.02 and 5.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Wholesale Markets
35.       Wholesale marketing of fruits and vegetables, managed by EMMSA, is
mainly carried out in two markets located within two miles of the city
center. The main market was built in the 1940s and subsequent growth of the
city has created serious congestion problems as well as inadequate handling
capacity for current consumption levels. Obsolete design also does not
permit introduction of modern handling and storage methods. In consequence,
trucks, retailers and wholesalers experience waiting times in excess of four
hours. Wastage and pilferage generate loss of value, while the market's
current location has generally led to public health hazards. A new market
site at Santa Anita, four miles east of the city center, was selected fol-
lowing a 1964 study and feasibility studies were prepared in 1972 and updated
in 1982. The old markets should be closed down for wholesale operations, as
modernization would be extremely costly (para. 43).
Solid Waste Management
36.       Refuse management throughout the city needs improvement.  In cen-
tral districts, trucks do not have efficient routes or schedules for ser-
vicing collection areas. The lack of transfer station capacity means many
collection vehicles have to deliver directly to landfills up to 40 km. away,
which limits them to one collection round per day. Lack of equipment has
prohibited adequate collection service in outer districts, while poor mainte-
nance results in less than 60 percent of the fleet being available at any one
time. Finally, most refuse is deposited in open, smoking, unsanitary dumps.
Previous Bank Operations
37.       In addition to the mass transit study mentioned above (para. 34),
the Bank made an Urban Development Loan (1283-PE of October 12, 1976 for
US$21.6 million) which focused on Lima and Arequipa. It included sites and
services, water supply, sewerage, electrical connections, health facilities
and industrial parks. After initial delays, the pace of execution picked up
and the project was completed in early 1984. Because of inflation, negative
real interest rates have developed -which will inhibit the achievement of the
project's cost recovery objectives; however, the project has demonstrated the
feasibility of low-cost shelter solutions. Discussions leading to a new
national housing project center on the importance of a revised system to



- 10 -
adjust interest rates for the sector.  Complementary to the Urban Development
Loan, the Bank is helping finance water and sewerage in Lima through Loan
2139-PE (of June 4, 1982 for US$40_6 million).  Inadequate water tariffs and
institutional weaknesses have kept this project from progressing at a satis-
factory pace. However, during the first semester of 1984, the Government
raised water tariffs 30 percent in real terms. It has also selected a
management consultant to assist it in institutional improvements. The Cen-
tral Government, rather than the Xunicipality of Lima, is responsible for the
water agencies and sector policies through its Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       This would be the second Bank-financed urban development project in
Peru. The project was prepared by the multisecroral commission (para. 30)
and by the Wholesale Market Corporation (EMMSA), in conjunction with the
various offices and agencies expected to participate in the project. The
Bank helped finance the feasibility study with funds provided under a Project
Preparation Facility. A Bank mission visited Peru to appraise the project
during April and May 1983. The appraisal mission's report entitled Staff
Appraisal Report, Lima Metropolitan Development Project  (No. 4871-FE, dated
May 29, 1984) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Annex III contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were
held in Washington from May 7 to 11, 1984 and the Peruvian Delegation was
headed by Mr. de Souza, the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce rep-re-
sentative on the Multisectoral Commnission. Lima's mayor also attended the
negotiations.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed project would support the shift of administrative and
financial responsibility for metropolitan management in Lima from national to
local government through institutional strengthening of MLM as well as phys-
ical improvements in the three critical sectors of transport, solid waste and
wholesale marketing. Emphasis has been placed on rehabilitation and effec-
tive utilization of existing transport and refuse systems, and on relocation
of wholesale market activities to a new site permitting greater volui-n and
ef'iciency.  The process of devolution of urban management is a long-term one
and the proposed project would represent a first stage in that process.
40.       Specific subprojects within the project are:
(a) improvements in "rban traffic management, paving of about 100
k1m. of unimproved streets in low-income areas, rehabilitation
of roads, and technical assistance, studies and training for
the Guardia Civil (police) traffic control unit, for MLM's
urban transport office (OMTU) and for INVERMET, which would
undertake procurement for inter alia the proposed transport
investments;
(b) construction of a new wholesale market to replace two existing
markets and the provision of technical assistance to EMMSA;



- 11 -
(c) provision of vehicles, equipment and transfer station capacity
for refuse collection and development of two landfill sites
for depositing solid wastes, plus technical assistance and
training for ESMLL, the city's solid waste agency. and the
districts' solid waste staff; and
(d)  technical assistance and training to HIM in metropolitan plan-
ning, municipal finance and coordination between different
government levels, and support for project administration.
41.       The urban transport subprojec. accounts for 59 percent of total
project costs (excluding contingencies).  This subproject would be executed
by HIM through INVERZIET and OMTU. Traffic management along nurthern and
southern corridors would be improved by the construction of segregated bu>-
ways or lanes, median strips, crosswalks, marking, sidewalks and pedestrian
signals. For downtown, a traffic circulation plan would be developed, a
traffic signal control system for some 500 intersections would be designed
and a principal avenue (Alfonso Ugarte) would be reconstructed to provide an
underpass and busways. Equipment would be installed for the Zirst stage (100
intersections) of the traffic control system designed under the project. Un-
improved streets (about 10O km.) in low-income neighborhoods would be paved,-
to integrate them with the corridor improvements mentioned above. Where
deferred maintenance has caused some deterioration in the existing road net-
work, patching would be financed to bring about 24 km. of streets back to the
condition where regular maintenance could be performed. Road rehabilitation
would be financed for about 26 km. where more major resurfacing and repair
are needed.
42.       A road maintenance study for MLM, to be undertaken by INVERMET,
would be funded to define equipment and manpower needs, standards, proce-
dures, programming and financing. The results of this study would be con-
veyed to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1985 (Section
2.U8(a) of the draft MLM Project Agreement). Prior to that, INVERMET would
develop a short-term plan for improving road maintenance activities in order
to resolve some of the more urgent problems. Equipment and technical assis-
tance needed to implement the maintenance program would be provided. A
transportation survey of Lima's downtown (central) area would be funded, as
could a route rationalization and tariff study for the public transport net-
work. These would be carried out by OMTU, the Municipal Transport Office
which would be established under the project.  Motorcycles, radios and other
equipment as well as technical assistance and training would also be provided
to MLM for the traffic control unit of the Guardia Civil, to improve traffic
enforcement and accident investigatiou and preveuticn.  Vehicles, office
machines, traffic counting and drafting equipment needed by OMTU and INVERMET
to implement the transport subproject would be financed under the project,
and these two offices would also receive technical assistance and training in
procurement, supervision, traffic engineering, planning and public transport.
43.       The wholesale market subproject would account for 24 percent of
total project base costs. The new facility to be constructed in Santa Anita
would provide a capacity for 1.7 million metric tons of fruits and vegetables
on about 30 hectares of land, with another 9.5 hectares for administration,
services and on-site access roads. An additional 43 hectares adjoining this
first phase of the market would be available for future expansion. The



- 12 -
design and construction of the market would be the responsibility of EHMSA
but eventual transfer of ownership and operation to MUM would be foreseen.
MLM and ENMSA would agree to cease operating the existing markets for whole-
sale activities by December 31, 1986 (i.e., once the Santa Anita site was
operating) (Section 2.12 of the draft MLM Project Agreement and 2.10 of the
draft EMMSA Project Agreement).  UH! would furnish the Bank with its recom-
mendations for alternative use of installations at the old market site by
October 31, 1985 (Section 2.08(c) of the draft MLM Project Agreement).
Experts would be hired and training provided under the project to assist
EMMSA in design, construction, supervision, market management and operation,
including accounting, and the relocation of 1,200 wholesalers to the new
site. Studies on long-term market location, alternative institutional
arrangements and modern packaging would also be financed. EMMSA is currently
just covering its operating costs, although it has quadrupled charges in
recent years. As it is unable to further raise tariffs at this time because
of binding contracts with wholesalers, it would provide a contribution to
capital outlays by sale or lease of land it does not need for marketing
,ctivities. Interest and other charges during construction would be
capitalized as a project cost.
44.       The solid waste management subproject would represent nine percent
of total project base costs. A central facility for ESMLL has already been
completed. The proposed project would provide office and maintenance equip-
ment, mobile repair vehicles, tow trucks and field supervision vehicles for
the agency, as well as new collection vehicles, overhaul of existing vehicles
and spare parts. A new transfer plant would be provided and the capacity of
an existing plant expanded. Land for the new plant has already been obtained
by the Housing and Urban Development Ministry. MIM would agree to obtain
title to this land no later than December 31, 1984 (Section 2.10 of the draft
MIM Project Agreement). Two sanitary landfills would be developed and
equipped on sites already owned by the city. These would have sufficient
capacity to receive Lima's solid waste for the next 20 years. The German
technical assistance agency, GTZ, has already begun technical assistance to
ESMLL. GTZ would continue this activity, and also provide assistance to the
municipal districts not included in ESMLL's jurisdiction--together with
training for local staff and pilot recycling projects-as a co-financed
element of the overall project.
45.       Urban Management and Project Administration (including project pre-
paration costs) would account for about eight percent of total project base
costs. A planning study, based on the 1972 comprehensive Lima development
plan, would be undertaken to produce strategies to guide long-term urban
development, particularly for land use and transport in Lima and Callao (the
adjoining port). Technical assistance and training to strengthen MLM's plan-
ning office, OPDM, is also included. A major effort to establish city-wide
cadastral data and to assess cadaster and tax administration capacity is
being financed under a separate French contract. The proposed project would
provide funds for experts to help MLM complement the work under the French
contract effectively and to develop MLM data management capability for cadas-
tral work. Parallel efforts to establish guidelines for a betterment tax
(legislated in 1981) and to review local taxation within the national system
are being carried out with funding from the Bank's Public Sector Management
Loan (2204-PE). Financing would be provided under the proposed project to
carry out recommendations of these studies. MLM's existing consolidated
financial planning system would be reviewed under the project in view of



- 13 -
expanding investment responsibilities. Another study on measures to achieve
municipal financial autonomy and a plan of action related to this would also
be prepared and presented to the Bank (para. 59). Finally, funds would also
be included (to supplement municipal funds on a transitional basis) to
support hiring of incremental professional and support staff in MLM needed
for project implementation.
46.       Technical assistance, training and studies financed under the pro-
ject would include 1,391 months of consultant services.  All consultants
financed under the loan would have qualifications acceptable to the Bank and
would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines under terms and conditions
*        acceptable to the Bank (Section 2.02 cf the draft MIM and -EMISA Project
Agreements).
Project Cost and Financing
47.       Total project cost including US$1 million for refinancing two Pro-
ject Preparation Facilities, is estimated at US$132.8 million (in June 1984
prices). Provision would be made for exemption from duties on equipment
imported under the project. Other identifiable taxes and duties, totalling
US$9 million, are included in this total project cost. The foreign exchange
component of the project is estimated at US$72.3 million or about 54 percent
of total project costs. A total of US$9.8 million has been included for
physical contingencies, reflecting an average of fifteen percent of cost of
civil works for the project. Price contingencies are calculated on US dollar
base values on the assumption that variations in the exchange rate would
approximately compensate for the difference between local and international
inflation. Contingencies are estimated at three and a half percent for 1984,
eight percent in 1985, nine percent in 1986 through 1988, seven and a half
percent in 1989 and six percent thereafter.
48.       Total financing required for the project (US$135.9 million) in
cludes a US$206,000 front-end fee and US$2.9 million for interest during
construction of the wholesale market. The proposed Bank loan of US$82.5
million equivalentwould represent about 65 percent of the estimated net-of-
tax financial requirements for the project, including US$69.2 million in
foreign costs, and US$13.3 million in local costs. Bank financing of local
costs is justified by: (i) the importance of the projei, in improving the
efficiency of municipal financial management, infrastructure and services;
(ii) the need to improve social conditions in the city; and (iii) the current
fiscal and balance of payments difficulties faced by Fee-i (psara. 17).
49.       GTZ would provide the equivalent of US$1 million in technical
assistance for the solid waste subproject. Road maintenance and traffic
signal equipment (about US$5 million) would be financed through suppliers
credits. The remaining US$47.4 million equivalent in project costs would be
provided by the Government, EMMSA and MLM through INVERMET. The MLM would
agree to contribute from INVERMET funds up to US$4 million p.a. during the
period 1984 to 1990 up to a total of US$20.2 million (Section 3.01(b) (ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement and 2.01(a) of the draft MIM Project Agreement)
while the Government would provide any amounts in excess of INVERMET's US$4
million p.a. (Section 3.01(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). EMMSA would
contribute US$2 million to the capital costs of the market. The Government's



- 14 -
financial contribution is estimated at US419.4 million, with an additional
US$5.8 million in-kind contribution in the form of the land for the market.
Any shortfalls in financing from suppliers credits or EMHSA would be picked
up by the Government under its general commitment to provide necessary funds
for the project (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution and Coordination
50.       The Republic of Peru would be the Borrower and would transfer funds
to the M1M on a grant basis (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement)
and would on-lend US$22.4 million (through a US$ denominated subsidiary loan)
to EMMSA at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, repayable in 17 years
with six years of grace (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Satisfactory subsidiary agreements between the Ministry of Economy and
Finance ou the one hand and MIM and ENHSA on the other would provide for the
transfer of resources. Drafts of these agreements were reviewed at nego-
tiations and their signature would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Sec-
tion 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The MIM would execute the urban transport subproject through
INVEWLMET and OMTU, the solid waste subproject through ESMLL, and the urban
management subproject directly through its cadaster, revenues, planning and
budget offices. EMHSA would undertake construction of the wholesale market
and arrange for the assumption of its operation. The establisbment of OMTU,
including the definition of general policy guidelines, would be a condition
for loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). A
Municipal Subproject Coordinator, satisfactory to the Bank, has been named to
coordinate the urban transport, solid waste and urban management subpro-
jects. He would report to the Mayor through the Municipal Director's
office.  Subproject directors for INVERMET and EMMSA hlave also been selec-
ted. The appointment of a solid waste (ESMLL) project director would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Appointment of four implementation advisors (in road mLintenance, highway
design and procurement) for INVERMET would be a conditicn of disbursement for
the municipal subprojects (para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). MLM and the Guardia Civil would agree to appoint a subproject
director and that equipment under the project would be owned by MLM for use
by the traffic safety unit of the Guardia Civil only for traffic management
and safety (Section 2.11 of the draft MIM Project Agreement).  For the urban
management subproject, the coordination of the planning study would be under-
taken through a steering committee comprising representatives from MLM, the
Ministries of Transport, Finance, Interior and Agriculture, the Province of
Callao, and the bus companies. This steering committee, to be set up by
December 31, 1984, would be a working group of and responsible to the Multi-
sectoral Coordinating Commission (para. 52) (Section 3:02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
52.       Coordination of the overall project would be the task of the Multi-
sectoral Coordinating Commission (CMC), set up to help with the process of
devolution. The CMC has representatives of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (from which the head of the Commission is drawn), the Public Credit
Department of that Ministry, MIM, and the Ministries of Transport and Agri-
culture (the latter because of its role in wholesale marketing). The CMC
itself would retain an oversight function to assure smooth project execution



- 15 -
and financing and would prepare regular reports on project progress, based on
reporting from the Municipal Subproject Coordinator and EMMSA. The Borrower
would agree to maintain CIC for these functions during the period of project
execution (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Loan funds would
finance incremental staff salaries of CKC during that period.
53.       Preliminary designs have been prepared for all physical components
of the project. Final designs for the first year's program of paving, road
rehabilitation and deferred maintenance programs have been completed as have
final designs for the first year work on the market. Outline terms of refer-
ence for technical assistance, training and studies have also been prepared.
Disbursements and Procurement
54.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over 7-1/2 years against the
following eligible expenditures: (i) 60 percent initially and then 31 per-
cent of expenditures on civil works for municipal subprojects and 84 percent
of civil works for the market subproject; (ii) 100 percent of foreign and 85
percent of local expenditures for equipment and supplies; (iii) 100 percent
of expenditures for consultant services and training; and (iv) a declining
share (from 100 percent to 20 percent) of salaries of incremental staff.
Interest and other charges during construction of the market, accrued through
March 14, 1987 for up to US$2.7 million, would be financed. Costs of final
designs some equipment and technical assistance incurred after January 1,
1984 would be financed retroactively, up to a total of US$1.1 million. For
contracts under US$500,000 and local purchases under US$10,000, disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditures.
55.       Procurement would be in accordance with the following table:
Procurement Method
ICB       LCB       Other      Total
u$ss millions)
Civil works              49.5      35.7        -         85.2
Equipment                11.8       2.6        -         14.4
Consultants              15.6       6.3       2.6        24.5
56.       Government agencies in Peru have sometimes had difficulty in exe-
cuting Bank projects in the past because they have not had the funds needed
to pay contractors promptly while waiting to be reimbursed by the Bank. In
order to permit more rapid provision of funds for the project, two dollar-
denominated special accounts would be established, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, in the Banco de la Nacion into which funds from the
proposed Bank loan would be advanced, one for municipal subprojects and one
for the market (Section 2.02(d) and (e) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). These accounts are expected to contain an amount equal to an
estimated three months of disbursements from the Bank loan at any given
time.  EMMSA and MLM would also establish two revolving funds-in the Banco
de la Nacion and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank--which
wo- ld be used to pay the local contribution to project expenses. These



- 16 -
revolving funds would consist of not less than two months estimated payment
needs (initially USS400,000 in each case) and would be replenished by EMMSA
and ML (through INVERMET) each time a payment was made (Section 2.01(b) of
the draft MLM Project Agreement and 2.01(c) of the draft EIMSA Project Agree-
ment). The Bank's initial deposit into the Special Accounts would not take
place until EMHSA and M1M had established their respective revolving funds
and deposited their advances (Schedule 5, para. 3 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Financial Analysis
57.       Extensive review of local revenue administration is to be under-
taken in the context of the proposed project, particularly with regard to
property taxes, which now represent only 15 percent of the operating budget.
It is expected that significant improvements in revenues would occur as a
result of better billing and enforcement of property taxes already underway
and a revised cadaster being prepared under the French contract. Other cur-
rent actions on municipal finance include an increase in rental tees for
retail markets and better collection of charges to districts for use of the
solid waste transfer plant.
58.       ESMLL service charges for solid waste collection covered only about
27 percent of service costs in 1981. These charges were raised 25 percent in
1984. Further improvements are anticipated following installation of better
service costing systems in ESMLL. This would be based on a review of the
financial performance of ESMLL and solid waste activities of municipal dis-
tricts. MIM would agree to (i) complete this review by December 31, 1984,
(ii) prepare recommendations for strengthening ESMLL's operational efficiency
and self-financing capacity, including a timetable, to be furnished to the
Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1985, and (iii) carry out such
recommendations (Section 2.08(e) and 2.09 of draft MLM Project Agreement).
MIM would also furnish the Bank for review, by March 30 of each year, ESMLL's
draft operating budget, and that of municipal districts, related to solid
waste activities for that year to assure adequate cost recovery during pro-
ject execution (Section 2.08(d) of the draft MIM Project Agreement).
59.       Finally, MLM would prepare an assessment of measures proposed to
improve municipal financial autonomy and would furnish this to the Bank for
review and comment by December 31, 1984 (Section 2.08(f) (i) of the draft MLM
Project Agreement). Fiscal autonomy here implies an increase in municipal
revenues so that (a) real increases in operational Central Government trans-
fers (in excess of 1984 transfers) are not required to fund recurrent munici-
pal expenditures and (b) resources of INVERMET will be sufficient without
further Central Government budget allocations, to cover any increase in the
Municipality's investment program and debt service requirements. A plan of
action and a consolidated timetable for achieving such financial autonomy
would be formulated, endorsed by Government and furnished to the Bank by
December 31, 1985 (Section 2.08(f) (ii) of the draft MLM Project Agreement).
MLM would agree to carry out these recommendations (Section 2.09 of the draft
MLM Project Agreement). Results of an MIM review to identify and implement
system improvements in financial and investment planning would be furnished
to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1986 (Section 2.08(g) of
the draft MLM Project Agreement).



- 17 -
60.       The new wholesale market would dominate EMKMSA's operations through
the late 1980s. Once the Santa Anita market is operational in 1987, EMMSA
would agree to increase user charges from existing levels in real terms so as
to achieve rates of return on net fixed assets in operation of 8 percent by
1989 and 12 percent thereafter (Section 4.06 of the draft EMMSA Project
Agreement). These new user charges are also expected to yield rates of
return of six percent for the first two years of market operation. EMMSA
would agree not to incur any debt unless estimated net revenues would be at
least 1.1 times the estimated debt service requirements for the current
fiscal year (Section 4.03 of the draft EMMSA Project Agreement). EMKSA owns
the site for the Santa Anita market. The portion to be used for the first
phase of the market (financed under this proposed project) is valued at
US$5.8 million. Since the La Victoria district owns the existing market
sites, MIM would present to the Bank by October 31, 1985 for review and com-
ment, the plans for use of these sites after they were closed to wholesale
marketing (Section 2.08(c) of the draft Ml* Project Agreement). EMMSA would
establish a reserve fund to cover major periodic maintenance costs, com-
mencing January 31, 1988, for on-site access roads and parking at the new
market (Section 4.04 of the draft EMMSA Project Agreement), and would not
undertake new capital investment in excess of US$1 million equivalent in any
one fiscal year without prior consultation with the Bank (Section 4.05 of the
draft EMMSA Project Agreement).  Financial proje-tions indicate that on these
bases, EMMSA would be able to recover investment costs (including land at its
current value) and to repay its subloan to the Government, although it would
require an extra two years of grace (making a total of six years) before
revenues from the Santa Anita market would permit amortization. EMMSA would
appoint a qualified financial executive by March 3U, 1985, to advise it on
financial policies (Section 2.01(b) (ii) of the draft EMMSA Project Agree-
ment).
Project Benefits
61.       The overall rate of return on project costs with quantifiable bene-
fits (78 percent of total costs) is estimated at about 70 percent. The main
quantifiable benefits which would occur as a result of the project are des-
cribed in para. 62. Sensitivity analysis shows that if project costs were
increased by 25 percent and project completion were delayed by up to three
years, the economic rate of return would still exceed 23 percent.
62.       The project would have a substantial influence on the efficiency of
Lima's economy through infrastructure and service developments and the
strengthening of metropolitan planning and management. The urban transport
subproject would reduce vehicle operating costs and generate time savings.
The solid waste subproject would allow transfer of loads from small trucks to
large trucks at strategic points, causing substantial savings in travel costs
to sanitary landfills. The market benefits would include reduced handling
costs, lower wastage and reduced waiting time by truckers, wholesalers and
retailers, as well as the release of valuable land at the existing market
site. These savings would thus permit most beneficiaries to afford the in-
creased market charges, although truckers might have to pass on some of the
higher charges to the sellers.
63.       Benefits would accrue to all income levels of the city's popula-
tion. hiowever, about 53 percent of project benefits and 56 percent of pro-
ject costs would accrue to the relatively poor (those households with monthly



- 18 -
income under US$225 in 1981 prices). Moreover, road paving and improvements
in the northern and southern corridors and expanded refuse collection ser-
vices would serve directly the lower-income neighborhoods. The market would
benefit some two-thirds of the low-income population of the metropolitan
area. Improved metropolitan management would benefit all residents. The
environmental impact on the city would be positive through cleaner streets
and the closing of unsanitary existing markets.
Project Risks
64.       Because the project involves both Central Government Ministries and
the MLM, coordination has been carefully provided for. The CMC's coordi-
nating role has proven effective during the final stages of project prepa-
ration and it should continue to provide the necessary liaison with all
entities involved. The currently severe fiscal constraints of the Central
Government and the weak revenue system of the MIM could mean a risk of inade-
quate local fiuancial contributions. By basing local funding heavily on the
earmarked revenues of INVERMET, this risk should be reduced considerably.
Furthermore, for the municipal works, Bank loan disbursements have been
front-loaded to minimize financial requirements from the Central Government
during initial years, when resource constraints will continue to be severe.
Finally, the possible difficulties in recruiting and maintaining adequate
professional staff in the MLM should be kept to a minimum by providing
substantial technical assistance and training, as well as support for the
salaries of incremental staff through the proposed project. For the largest
subproject--urban transport-additional assurances of execution capability
would be provided through the contracting of advisors to OM4TU and INVERMET.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The following documents (i) draft Loan Agreement between the
Republic of Peru and the Bank; (ii) the draft Project Agreements between the
Bank and the Municipality and the Bank and EMMSA; and (iii) the Report of the
Committee previded for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special features of the project are referred to in the text of this
report and in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be (i)
the signing of the subsidiary agreements between the Borrower on the one hand
and MLM and EMSA, on the other; (ii) appointment of the ESMLL project
director; (iii) establishment of OMTU, including preparation of satisfactory
operation guidelines, and (iv) registration of the Loan Agreement by the
Public Credit Department (a standard requirement in Peru). A special
condition of disbursement for the MLM subprojects would be the signing of
contracts for four implementation advisors for INVERMET.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - KCOMMkNDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washingtou, D.C.
June 1, 1984



- 20 -
ANNEX I
rA 1 I        3'                            Page  1  tf  6
PERU                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
rERU                                REFERENCE CROUOS (WEICGTED AVERAGES'. 7-
M1OST                    (MIST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb          bRECENT            MnDDLE I NCOME          MIDDLiE lNCQ-E
196t,__    19 70t ESTIETA -    tAT. MItERICA & CAR1            EUROPE
AREA (TOAID SQ0. KM)
TOTAL                            1285.2      1285.Z     1285.2
ACR[CIJLTrRAL                     306.1       299.3      305.2
CNP PER CAPITA (M55)                 330.0       540.0     1170.0             2088.2                  2453.6
RI3C  ODCM0PION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRANA  OF COAL EOUIVALEKT)   433.0       707.0      807.0             1407.6                  1580.8
pOPULATIOU ANI VITAL STATISTICS
PnpL'LATION.!I!D-YEAR (TNOUSANDS)   9665.0    12833.0    17031.0
URBAN YOPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)      46.3        59.5       65.9               65.9                    47.8
POPULATION PRO2ECTlONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2C00 (HILL)                          26.                  ,
STATIONARY POPULATION (M.LL)                            5O.,
YEAR SIATIURARY POP. REACIIED                           2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PFR SQ. EN.                       7.5        10.0       12.9               35.6                    82.0
PER SQ. I;!. ACRI. LAND          31.6        42.9       54.4               93.2                   157.2
POPIULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-16 Yqs                        43.6        44.3       '2.4               40.1                    31.u
15-64 YRS                        52.0        51.S       54.1               55.8                    b0.'
65 A.ND ABOVE                     4.4         3.9        3.5                6.1                     7.
POPUL.ATION GROWTH RATE f:)
TOTAL                             2.5         2.8        2.6                Z.3                     1.6
URIAN                             5.2         5.3        3.5                I..7                    3.4
CRUDE RIRTH RATF (PER TNOUS)       45.5        61.5       36.3               31.5                    25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIOUS)       18.3        14.6       11.1                8.1                     9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.0        2.5                2.0                     1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSl)         ..          ..
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMDE)         ..          ..
YOtD AaD WNRITIOI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71.100)                      96.0       102.0       87.0              113.0                   108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REqUIROIENTS)    103.0       102.0       99.0              111.3                   129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMf PER DAY)         67.0        63.0       60.0               67.9                    92.3
OF WHICH ANnMAL AND PULSE       29.0        26.0       25.01c             34.1                    36-6
CHTLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        37.9        20.2        8.9                5.3                    10.f.
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YC.ARS)     47.5        53.4       57.9               64.6                    67.2
INFANT PORT. RATE (PER THC.S)     162.9       119.7       85.4               62.6                    71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                            14.6        35.0       48.3td             64.8
URBAN                            30.2        58.0       60.07d             77.8
RURAL                             0.8         8.0       25.07i             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRFTA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        36.0        34.01d            54.6
IRBAN                              ..        52.0       5t.o07d            69.8                      ..
RURAL                               -        16.0          ,,              29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIWN         1910.0      1820.0     1390.0             1776.0                  1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          2210.01f    720.0       690.01d           1012.2                   762.5
PoP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           400.0       450.0       520.0k           477.0                   334.0
URBAN                           260.0/e    520.0       400.d7             667.5                   216.0
RURAL                              ..      2800.0      5610. 07          1921.6                       .
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        19.0       23.01c             27.2                    20.0
INWSING
AVERAGF SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.9         4.8/
URBAN                             4.8         4            .        .        ..
RURAL                             4.9         4.67j        .                 ..                       .
AVERATE NO. OF PERSONSfROOM
rOTAL                             2.3         1.9/g
URBAN                             2.0         1.71i        ..
RURAL                             2.7         2.4...
ACCESS To ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            2b.0        32.0/         .
URBAN                            50.7        54.3...
RUtAL                             4.2         2...
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 21 -
ANNEX 
Page 2 of 6
PERU                  - SOCIAL INDICArUS DATA SPUMT
PERU                                RCFCRltNCE OUPS (ZIRTD AUVRURS) to
MOST                    (PST RICENT ESTIMATE) lb
b  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME          PEDDLE rItI E
1 b60b     1970-b ESTIMATb    LAT. AJIERICA a CAMlS             MCO
IDWUTICOIF
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRtIMARY:  TOTAL                 83.0       105.0      112.0             105.0                   t02.2
MALE                   95.0      113.0       116.0             106.3                   107.2
FEMALE                 71.0       97.0       108.0             103.6                    97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 15.0        30.0       56.0              40.0                    56.5
MALE                   18.0       35.0        60.0              38.6                    63.4
FUEALE                13.0        26.0        53.0              41.2                    48.9
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)        19.9        17.1       15.1/d            34.0                    22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          34.0        35.0       39.0              30.7                     24.7
SECONDARY                        12.0        17.0       29.0/d            16.7                    22.1
ADULT LITERACY RArE (C)            61.0        72.51S     80.0              79.5                    69.7
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAIID POP        8.2        18.0       19.4/c            65.6                    52.9
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP      113.8       141.7      165.6             228.2                   165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           3.4        30.6       51.2             108.3                   124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERIL
INTERESr) CIRCULAT1OR
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..       129.4       53.5/c            64.1                     96.3
C;NMU  ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     6.7          ..         ..               2.9                     2.9
LABS PtC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THQIS)        3025.0      3710.0     5076.0
FEUALE (PERCENT)                 21.2        20.0       23.4              24.8                    34.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            52.5        48.0       39.2              31.3                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               19.6        18.4       18.2              23.9                    23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEST)
TOTAL                            31.3        28.9       29.8               31.3                    42.0
!5ALE                            49.6        45.8       45.6              49.8                     55.2
FCMALR                           13.2        12.0       14.0              14.8                    29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RAlIO           1.5         1.7        1.5               1.4                     0.9
1INUS DISTRIRUr10
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEIOLDS         39.0
HIGHEST 202 oF HOUSEWLDS         66.4        61.04        .
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          2.5         1 .97j
LOWEST 402 OF HOUISEHLDS          8.0         7. OA
POVURT TAUT QROPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UIS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       235.Ofe           289.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      ioo.ofl           184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY lNCOME
LEVEL (U55 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              *            *      293.Olc            519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      200.07             372.1                  409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUlTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                               .     .    .        49.0/c
RURAL                              ..
NOT AVAILABLE
. OT APPLICABLE
N 5 T E S
/a The group averages for eoch Indicator are populautonwelghted arithmetic mans. Covermge of coattries innig tne
Indicators lepends on avaIlability of data and La not uniform.
lb Unless otherwlse noted, -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dat. for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for "float Recent Eatinste between 1979 and 1951.
/c  1977; /d 1978; Ie 1962; /f 1964; jA 1972; lh Personal Income within labor force.
May 1983



haflaC   0..l.1144M   W  *t0.:-w  'I-.-..                                        41i a~~~~~~..~a .... .f.. ---ia   *....4     9w aJa....
C-1-  sla) I--. ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       -.---     .aa9T.*~wi  ~. -                          .   .     
'ZIZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~9-   a..-                               *b--.   -1-    a   -4.   .a44-4Ta4
-Ij ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ..at.I     4.   4                      1al-
-a  ...4~-~..   *  ..fV.           49,-a-                                           4       4::.iaai4            4       -                4;...'-   -   4
**4'J              a-- a40a... **Z4-a-  l.lia;.- a
wi.i -~~~4  ma; palIaaa -I ~~~~~al-- --ii.;   *aia-i4~~~~~- l.44  -, a-.---:  ~~~~~  -. ........-..: . ..
.14a-..a...a...a-,                       :---l3-.a4-       Z-a :w;a. a
- li  am   -(wa4~aaCT14.) I..:a.-~:  4a..4i*1a--aa-an:.-~P'49a4-a44.    ..i..    .;.-  a-a:-aa---, ,*;-                                                -
Z         I             .;r.,.   4
-   i -. r    .i.-   *4TC._-                                                                                                                                      le. -.  -';-i'  --c4.nl  --~---t;T- 4
Ia..:al.Ialaacr-aa......tT..aae.   ;t       a    .                     '.4..t.a.t...T:  ,--.a--' .        ~       M'
.4;.4at-%I9lia   -*9149l  .    --,..:-aaTa  .4--~'-;a               ..*I  ...*.   a  *:.a   *..9-
9;***j C ~al- -'*4t1 94li.~ *-a ~a;*i '4Z91.,Z
- lao4-dlta~d- a:..aa-.    ~  u.-a-a -:;aa,.41    w~ ..n.a  ~ta                      .a..- a-  4-.;.   1 a.             .       .    .       t9.-;-   :4.
*                       ..-... ~~~--a~~a-3a.l..I11aaa.-ai-                   9.    ..    44a)4              .. 1                                                               '              .).                ;
T-a.. 1      at4ali-l,    -aa: i                   lt          4aid       ,.---    .   --                                        ..:.a-'.:-i-                     4        C      .
9.. aalt..  ana..;   .4.iw        a-q.- (..`-,4 *aTiliwI-  u; p.  i.....-  PL- j  -pa
-a'.,aaw~;a-   paUt.n.   -.*?4;iawl.;.~      7     lF        :.                    ~..I--    -   --i   -.  --ai-                                   .c    Z-,.~    -.j;-n
Jo l           ..a..    ll: I'.-  TI                      0.                                                             Z --4!O-  a a111 0Pi    I41'a 'u~                i     ..99
T  lia..ii;                                                                                         77-.. a~..t T .a..' ' ~ p  a-  .   44w    4  i . - .                  .                .



pal--im   17.5         =id Ii 9W                                                                                       ' of 6
per Cqita tES 1.250 (19)                                     - 23 -
~m   h  C?e 
1oficaor                              0112120. IES                 Act                          FAciint             PhjeZe
G.Teat fties
1982 Ic        191    1919   1989   iSI m      981       1SB9    19119   19f    1989   1962
*                 GM= Q   wm. tic Pm21 62S2                               -1      4.6    3.       3.6    1.0        -9.9    2L0      5.2    4.4    4.3
Aw m_                               1,79L3            -41     AA    -6.5   lLY9    2.4          -9.      40      8.0    5.0     50
Ijbzy & R1uiz                      8.AS.             -0.7    5.5    5.0    -.0       0.1                 2.0    4.3    4.5    3.7
5vic                               U.Z3              -1.0    3.8    4.7    4.0    1.3           -84      1.6    5.      4.2     46
C*                                  18.5626S           -5.6    3.5    7.7    8.9    Z.6           -9.9   -4       4.9    3.6    4.6
GM= lameenim                         3695              1.98   4llJ8    39.J   19.A  -164         -259      3.8    6D0    6.0    6.3
:tu  o63 1E CM                       4                 1.6   15.9  -148        L3    12i         -8    123        3.5  S4         1LA
Yqm= of 3S                           4767             -31.0   tQ;_   426    4.6    3.2           -X22    -LO      2       3_3    4.0
CCIMB A,ti2I 1.8                            13.      0.4    4D0  -J35.8   -L7          -4.2   41.3   12.5   13.3    714
06 Ddrfl                               2.3             36.2   633   100.0   13.2   23.             -       -      -       -
1Im3e 11e                              697f.          1S.3   2.6 207   49   697.6  1,6Z5.                 -       -       -      -
Shoe of 06 at 111bf Prio  (C)                         AC   Asan IMCCMl (2)
(a Olm ftices)Ib                                Cat *t   5IK  dm._J)
1910   1975   1910   195    1990                       10.75  1975-80 19108  19540
AP     -                               316.    12.8    7.9    9.0    9.                            0.6    0.2    1.5      LO
1atry & Ib                              3S0    36.4    4.2   37.3    36.7                          54     2.6   -22       3.9
Set                                     AL0    48.5   42.0   43.0   43.5                           6.5    1.4   -42       46
C_dmi                                   8.    89.0   79.0    8.0   81.s               5.3    1.7   -0.7    4.3
-c=@ T    _                             3      19.6   174    14.2   16.0                         17.8   -7.0   -4.7    6.3
&Pcts of 0w5                            17.6   10.    2L6    2.0    26.0                          -7.8    6.4     Lb6     z
oE On5                                14.0   19.e  1I2    21.6   21.5                             8.    -3A6   -0.7    3.8
_ lAticMuSm                             15.9    9.8    VA17    1318  14_8                          1.7    -.      4.7     9.6
As a Z of GOP
1975   1989   198
chzzmt ff~                                             30.5   56.0   45.7
xv-t ;u _nma                                           314    53.2   46.5
Suxph  C  or Deficit -)                                -0.9    0.8    4.8
Cqdtal 3qudine                                          8.5    9.6   11.0
16               FbFeigm rzmciq                                          5.3    Z.2    7.8
1910-75 19-  190.4  1915-90
or GMtbh RAte CZ)                                       4.6    0.8   -L2       4.6
CM Per CWizA 1Mth Ae (I)                                1.8   -1.6   -3.5    2.6
1=E                                                     3.8    9.1   76.0    3.4
lWiaml        PA-                                       0       0.1    0.2    0.3
rlwt Eiaticity                                          0.3   -Z3      0.9    0.9
Iak pat ,        im: c      uilt nt    r        machm of mc im1ICt c      *  liis'-
lb Peujecctd y        at  mt    pi-
Ic CiowDiMaad 1tablc SatC.
LAC1D
nay 15. 1581



pi1l      17.S 6f11 . oif, mid                                                                              PAW 5 of 6
GP F Cqoi 0 W5 l.Zi 09.
M1 cw l9m CP
(at mtt1960 Pricm)
ludi=MW                      MITI;=~UL~ 8$ at                Akt1                    latimtaf         Aujacto
G      B  Pm..)
1sz8           1978   1979   19        1981    19     198Z   195      18      19&    1967
Neiue hIIn                            3Z30              14.5   27.3   -9.6   -1.6    14.4  -16.7    1.3    3.0    4.9    1.0
prqy                                 2172.0           14.1    2L5   -14.4    4.6   15.2  -12.    11.5    2.0    4.3   -0.5
759.0           17.6   75.6   14.1   -5    11.0  -33.9    25.    8.0           80    8o .
ncbiae         a                       3767.0          -42Z      6.4   44.9   32.5    3A   -273    -2.3    1.5    2.5    4.0
Fld                                   359.0          -25.0   18.Z   63.1    5.1  -10         216   -25.    -6.3   -6.9   -01
Pwtmm                                  34.0          -P4   -l4 tL03   -25.6    5L.2   67.1            26      5.7    4.      4.3
1b      a  f IquiZ t                 172.            -17.2   35.6   50.1   39.6    0.5   -3           5.0    6.5    6.0    6.3
19d0             35.5   -1.9   36.9   64.5    9.5  -5            3.0    0.1    3.       3.1
Et Pie                                  75.0            57.0   L1.0  10L0.    84.7   75.0   77.9   a3.5   90L6   1m          1U}113
pt= Pkic T7                             90A              1.0   92.0  1000     93.       04    913    96b.0  103    13.0   15
of 7a                              83.0            70.4   8L1   100LO    9D3   g3.0   853    87-0  87.7   88.7   9Q2
Cmitim  of N# dim Tale CD             4-e              I IF    e ()
(at 0mtPrice.)                        (at Qontm 196 price.)
1970   1975   1910    1985   1990           197075 * 1975W  1918  1985-9
_qu~ta                                   10O0A  IOQO   100.0   1.0  1O.O                 -641    8.6    1.4    2.1
97.0   92.J   78.7   83.1   78.               -7.5     91      3.2    0.7
_      rfac~ues                          3.0     L      213    16.9   22D0             183    412    -4D        Lo
l10O   0L0O   100.0  100L              223   -103    -3.7    3.6
Focd                                            7.0   12.0   14.9   10.3               6.9    1.2    1.7   -3.1
eK~ llA.0    1.0    1.8    1.8                                                       35.7   -0.7    2Z.0    4.3
1hIy E  ;Dipt                                  31.0   37.0   37.8   43.1              29.3   -3.9   -4.2      63
oti-3 51.0   50.0   45.5   44.8                                                       15.2   -63    -1.4    3.2
9ae of Taae wth                9M  of TMe vuh                     Qwf of Trae with
1n*utria1 C      }mtrle(z)     De3opi, Cmtriam CZ)         cq,hul sup   oa O        a)
l970    1975   1980            1970    1975   1960            1970    1975    198D
Dm8: (IF M
ammis                                   84.1    58.6   65.9               .9   23.0   20.6              0.5    1.0    1.4
77.3   76.9   79.7             20.6   16.8   16.4              1.0    4.6    0.9
* ~tt gzmtb ste  for 1972-1975.
2,D
May 29. vbt4



AMN I
Ibpilaial 17.5 (zillica. mid 1982                              - 25 -                                            e 6 of 6
QIP P  Capita: US 1,250 (1992)
PERU - MICE(F (E . D=L ASMhEZ AND .
(million  $SS at         icpr)
Actzm                       Esti.zei           Pzojintad
Pmi
1978    1979      98D    :_m       1982         1983    1984>   195    1990
MIAIIZ CF       8SLMI
Ej  - of rods & Serwices                       216    4143    4851    4223    4185              3662    435      48*      Q124
Of :&iih: isrc ie Ois                       1951    3491    3856    3249    3293             2848    ;-59    3BE5    7225
Tzuozta of Goads &   serwc                     2664    356    4923    6088    598              4980    5212    5700    967
OE %idzh  3ez1dii oe-                       1601    195       3062    3805    3791           2        258    3124    5577
Nt   fe                                          56      122      135     161      167           235      200     211      278
O=reat  lc-n  Belane                           -192      729       63   -1705   -1636          -1083    -656      613    -259
Dirert rimte Invest                              25       71       27      125      48            31       30      10       88
III LTm  (get)                                  585      668      341     839      911           834     642      765      849
Official                                       --       --       --      89      553           360      465     46       591
Private                                        - -      --      --      750      358           474      177     319      258
Otbr  Caial                                    -336      111      300      154     809           118       85     -12    -368
3ine in Beaev  (--imcrease)                     -82   -579    -71          584    -12            100    -I10     -150    -300
TmTtiml haezv                                   243     1822    2553    1969    2101            2001    2101    ZZi1   311
8s    ba of lapoc                      1.2      6.2      6.2      3.9     4.2           4.8      4.8     4.7      3.9
EMML CAPT AND DM a/
Gkms D          isse s                          843    112D    1416    247    230D
official Gait                                   --       - -      --       2       21
Cocesim.l Tms                                  236      143      232     197      251
PiC                                           11       113      107       95     1
Otber                                         125       30      125     101      129
lo-;_C fsU1 LM                                 607      977    1184    28    201B
Official Eprt Crmeits                         213      152      219      102     544
IniD                                           26       61     140       76       72
Othr 25stil1txa                                13       19       58      71      113
Private                                       355      745      767    1978    1259
Ptem1 Debt
Debt Ozstmdlig 5 Diabursed                    5403    5934    6169    9378    9289
official                                     2542    2735    3158    3246    3799
Private                                      2851    3199    3011    5132    5450
Ud3iabirsed Det                               1206    2103    1698    290         73
Debt Seice
Total Dbt Sevice Psysnts                        750      919    1501    2355    2154
hnereat                                       317      437      544     768      786
Pay.ez  at 7 of Esports                        31.1    22.2    3D.9    55.8    51.5
Avekge lhtereat Rate an raw Ta    (Z)           7.6      9.5      9.3    12.6    12.2
Official                                      6.7      6.1      7.4      8.6     9.6
Private                                       9.1    11.9    10.6    15.6    13.5
&mmge 1hatuity of -.w Ioan  (YTeas)            10.7    11.3    12.1    11.9    10.2
Official                                     11.6    14.4    15.1    16.8    15.6
Private                                       9.1      9.1    10.1       8.1     7.4
lbce: A double dab atsuds for it availble".
.l 1978-1990 emelude priwte aW        -iaset; probble 1984 reaclidulirgs nt iIEIsW.
I       1D
May 29, 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU *|
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1984) 1/
Amount
Loan                                                        (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower            Purpose        Bank    Undisbursed
- US$ million -
32 loans fully disbursed                                     561.2                        4
1196       1976    Republic of Peru       TrAnsport           76.5         8.8
1403       1977    Republic of Peru       Agriculture         25.0        12.4
S-11       1978    Republic of Peru       Preinvestment         8.8        0.8
1771       1980    Republic of Peru       Irrigation          56.0        33.9
1806       1980    PETROPERU              Petroleum Prod.    32.5          6.5
1812       1980    Republic of Peru       Rural Dev.          15.0        10.0
1888       1980    Republic of Peru       Preinvestment        7.5         3.8
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU              Technical Asst.      5.0         3.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                 Aviation            58.0        55.7
1968       1981    COFIDE                 Industry            60.0        35.4
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU            Power               25.0        19.9
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry             26.0        16.8
2091       1982    Republic of Peru       Transport           93.0        92.7
2117       1982    PETROPERU              Industry             5.3         5.0
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                Water Supply        40.6        36.8
2150       1982    Republic of Peru       Agriculture         40.6        36.3
2179       1982    ELETROLIM&             Power               81.2        74.4
2195       1982    PETROPERU              Petroleum           81.2        78.5
2204       1982    Republic of Peru       Technical Asst.    10.2          4.9
2208       1982    Republic of Peru       Education           17.3        17.0
2211       1982    Republic of Peru       Health              33.5        32.4
2219       1982    Republic of Peru       Rural Develop.      30.0        24.6
2302       1983    Republic of Peru       Agriculture         130.0      122.6
Total                                                 1,519.4
of which has been repaid                              241.7
Total now outstanding                                 1,277.7
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                -                          )
Total now held by Bank                                1,277.7
Total undisbursed                                                   732.8
1/ On March 27, 1984 the Board approved a US$40 million loan for the Chanchamayo-
Satipo Rural Development Project.
*/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/lDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 27 -
4NNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Type of
Year               Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.        Home Appliances   0.2       -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.     Bricks             0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.           Building
Materials         0.3       -      0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers        4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.             Cement             2.3     0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo        Cement             1.1     0.5     1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.       Mining            15.0      -     15.0
1978/83     Cia. de Minas Buenaventura       mining            6.0      0.5     6.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.            Mining             2.7     0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                        Leasing            3.0     0.1     3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de          Power
-uancavelica                   Transmission      4.5       -      4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                Palm Oil          15.0      -     15.0
Total gross commitments                           54.5      1.8    56.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          40.6     0.6    41.2
(                      Total held by IFC                                  13.9     1.2    15.1
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                            4.4       -      4.4
1982 1/     Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.              Mining            3.0     0.5      3.5
1984 2/    Compania Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha                  Mining             4.0       -      4.0
1/  Approved by Board on July 6, 1982, but not yet signed.
2/ Approved by Board on March 13, 1984 but not yet signed.
March 31, 1984



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
LTMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:   3 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                a Multisectoral Commission with
funding from PPF
tc)  First presentation to the Bank:   1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   April 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:   May 11, 1984
(f)  Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:   October 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government and MA to provide Bank with impact analysis of any major urban
transport investment in the Lima Metropolitan area exceeding US$10 million
and allow the Bank opportunity to comment. Any such investment that would
adversely affect the transport subproject would be an event for suspension
of disbursements (para. 34);
(b) MLM to conduct road maintenance study and furnish results to the Bank for
review and comment by December 31, 1985 (para. 42);
(c) MLM to furnish Bank with its recommendations for alternative use of
installations at the old market site by October 31, 1985 (para. 43).
(d)  IMM to acquire title to land for new solid waste transfer station by
December 31, 1984 (para. 44).
(e) MLM to undertake review of existing financial planning system and furnish
results to Bank by December 31, 1986 (para. 59);
(f) MLM to contribute, from INVERMET funds, up to US$4 million p.a. during pro-
ject execution up to a total of US$20.2 million (para. 49);
(g) Borrower to transfer funds to MLM as grant and to EMMSA as subsidiary loan
at Bank's interest rate repayable in 17 years with 6 years grace. Signa-
ture of satisfactory subsidiary agreements between Borrower and M1M and
EMMSA, respectively, would be conditions of effectiveness (para. 50);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page Z ot 2
(h)  MLM to appoint ESMLL Project director and to to establish OMITU as
conditions for effectiveness and to appoint INVERMET implementation
advisors as condition of disbursement for the MLM subprojects (para. 51);
(i)  MIX to agree with Guardia Civil on appointment of subproject director and
MLIX ownership of equipment to be used by traffic safety unit only for
traffic management and safety in Lima (para. 51);
(j)  A steering committee to be appointed including representatives of the
Province of Callao, inter alia, to establish coordination for the Lima
Development Plan (para. 51);
(k) Borrower to maintain COC for overall coordination and oversight of project
execution (para. 52);
(1) Special Accounts for the HLM subprojects and for the market subproject to
be established to receive Bank loan advances, with respective revolving
funds for local contributions (para. 56);
Em) MLM to (i) prepare review of financial performance of ESMLL and solid waste
activities of municipal districts and present to Bank by December 31, 1984
and (ii) prepare recommendations for strengthening ESMLL's operational
efficiency and self-financing capacity, with a timetable, by December 31,
1985 and to agree to carry them out, and to furnish to the Bank for comment
draft ESMLL and district solid waste budgets by March 30 each year (para.
58);
(n) M1M to (i) prepare an assessment of measures proposed to improve municipal
financial autonomy and furnish this to the Bank by December 31, 1984; and
(ii) prepare a plan of action and timetable to achieve financial autonomy,
endorsed by Government, and to furnish them to the Bank by December 31,
1985. MLM would also agree to carry out such plan of action (para. 59);
Co) EMMSA to agree not to incur any debt unless estimated net revenues would be
at least 1.1 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements for the
current fiscal year; MLM, in coordination with EMMSA, to close existing
s.          market sites for wholesale activities once new market is open; EMMSA not to
undertake any new capital investment in excess of US$1 million equivalent
without prior consultation with Bank; to establish reserve fund to cover
f           major periodic maintenance costs, beginning January 31, 1988, for on-site
access roads and parking; to set tariffs so as to achieve an eight percent
return on net fixed assets in operation in 1989 and a twelve percent return
thereafter; and to appoint qualified financial executive by December 31,
1984 (para. 60); and
(p) MLM to furnish Bank for comment its plans for alternative use of sites of
old wholesale markets (para. 60).



IBRD 17613
\7                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~PERU
4 \ ~LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prpo    Existing
A \  *TransFer Stations
S *           Landfills
*                                        U        *     Markets
AMaor Roads
Roads to be imnproved as port of Protect
Central Area Traffic Management Schemes
(D              e w   ond TraFfic Signal System
Transport Corridors which tnclude Low Incofne
\- J- __X         Area Paving Programs
KILOMETERS         I                    IS
12'X(  
5I/l  'X  t~_    _  
(                                           \tl\\t\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iZ*~,                                                                                                                i2\
f~~~~~~ o.w,w
rs/o-d~81
._         _  ,  _   _   _.  _   _   _     
_   ~~~_ __ _ _ '7. 






