Dma- -to
The World Bank
FOR OMWCLAL USE ONLY
Rqmut N.  12397
PROJECT CMLEm ON REPORT
PERUl
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMT PROJECT
(LOAN 2451-PE)
OCTOBER 13, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12397
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tbeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban authorization.



Currency Unit - Sol (S.)
March 1983  July 1984    July 1985    July 1986    July 1987
US$1.00     1/. 1,63     1 3,47        I. 10.98    IJ13.95       U. 16.84
Welghts and Measures
Metric system
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
List of Acronms and Abreviatious
CMC          Comision Multisectorial Coordinadora
(Multisectorial Coordmiating Commisn)
EISMLL      Empresa de Servicios Municipales de Umpieza de Lima
(Uma Municipal Solid Waste Corporation)
EMMSA        Empresa de Mercados Mayoristas S.A.
(Wholesale Marketing Corporation)
GTZ         German Technical Assistance Agency
INVERMEl  Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones en Fideicomiso
(Metropolitan Investment Fund)
MEFC        Ministerio de Economia, Fmanzas y Comercio
(Ministry of Economy, Fmance and Commerce)
MLM         Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana
(Municipality of Metropolitan Lima)
MTC          Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones
(Ministry of Transport and Communications)
OMC         Oficina Metropolitana de Catastro
(Metropolitan Cadaster Office)
OMU         Oficina Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos
(Metropolitan Urban Transport Office)
PPF          Project Preparation Faciity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahngton, O.C.204
U.SA
Offtce of Directo:-Oeneral
Operatlons Evaluation
October 13, 1993
* MORANDUM T1  TIMRXEROCUTI=  DIRECTORS AND T PRESIDENT
SUBECT:    Project Completion Report on Peru
Lima Metronolitan Deaelooment Pro1ect (Loan 2451-PR)
Attached is the "Project Cogpletion Report on Peru -- Lima
Metropolitan Development Project (Loan 2451-PE)" prepared by the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project did not achieve its objectives. The loan was suspended
for five years following a decision by the Bank to cease all operations in Peru,
and an undisbursed portion of the loan (US$57.78 million) was canceled in 1991.
Overall, the project performed poorly and its objectives were only partially
implemented. Macroeconomic Instability, institutional weaknesses and a complex
project design are the main factors that account for- te poor performance of the
project. Lack of continuity in Bank supervision compounded the problems.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its
institutional development impact as negligible, and its sustainability as
unlikely. In view of the unstable macroeconomic context, institutional weakness,
and financial constraints, a better targeted and simpler operation would have
been more appropriate.
The PCR is candid about the overall project performance but includes
no detailed account of project results. This lack of information confirms the
weakness of monitoring and evaluation systems in the ccuntry.  No audit is
planned.
Robert Picciotto
This docunent has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipi ats only n the p rfor0an of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be di8ctoied wi hout Wortd Bank utorizatfon.



FOR OFM ClIL USE ONLY
PRQ           CX)NfPLEnlO REXR-
(Low 2451-PE)
hbeOf (:ontem
PRIEFACE                                                                             i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                  ii
PART k              PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTTVE
A.           PrcectIdentity   ......................................1...... 
B.   Projec Background .
c            Project Objectives and Description             .3
D            Project Design and Organizaton .
E.           Project Implementation                    .7
F.   Project Reslts .10
G.           Project Sustainability .11
I.           Bank Performance ..................                             12
L            Borrower Performance .12
J.           Finding and Lessons Learned .13
.            Project Relationship .13
L.           Consulting Services ...14
AL           Project Documentation and Data .14
PART II:            PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.           Analysis of Key Issues and Main Fmdings .15
B.           Bank's Performance and Lessons Leaned .18
C            Borrower's Performance and Lessons Leaned .18
D.    Project Relationship .19
E            Evaluation of Co-financers' Performance .19
PART m-I            STATISTICAL INFORMATION
I.    Related Bank Loans .20
2.    Project lmetable.                                                      21.
3.    Loan Disbursements .22
4.           Project mplementation .23
5.           Project Costs and Fiancing .24
6.           Project Results .2.5...                                         25
7.           Project and Loan Covenants .26
&            Use of Bank Resoures .30
This document ha a restsicted distribution and may be wd by reipients only in the performace
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authoriztion.



PROJECT  omPEOn  E=T
(Loan 2451-PE)
MIEEACE
This is the Project Copletion Report (PCR) for the Lim  Metropolitan
Development Project in Pera, which vas partially financed with a World Bank Loan
2451-PE in the amoumt of US$82.5 million, was approved on June 21, 1984, signed
on February 15, 1985, and became effective on July 15, 1985.  The project was
designed to be implemented in seven years, beginning in mid-1984.  Original
closing date was December 31, 1991.   In May 1987, loan disbursements were
suspended following a decision by the Bank to cease all operations in PerG. On
May 5, 1991, after five years of continuous loan suspension, the undisbursed
amount of US$57.78 million was canceled in accordance with Section 6.03 of the
General Conditions. The loan had been suspended for a continuous period of
almost five years and it would have required a major reformulation and a
reappraisal to reflect current conditions and priorities.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Latin America
and the Caribbean Region, Country Department I (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) and is based on the Staff Appraisal Reports the Loan and
Guarantee Agreement; Supervision Reports; Project Files; and internal Bank
memoranda. Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower after reviewing
Parts I and III.



- ii -
PROMgT C LTIO   PORu
LIMA HELROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT P     COJECT
(Loan 2451-PR)
EVALUXXION SUMMARY
Introduction
This project was among the firet Bank financed operations for metropolitan
development in the Latin American and the Caribbean region.   The project
supported the Government's decentralization program, with the main objective of
strengthening local autonomy by shifting administrative responsibilities from the
Central Government to the Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (HMX). The project
comprised four subprojects: urban transport, solid taste management, wholesale
market and urban management, and project administration.
Although, the project achieved some of its objectives, overall it performed
poorly. The urban management and the solid waste subproject were partially
implemented--moderste benefits accrued from the microsanitary fills pilot program
(see para. 24)--the transfer of urban administration functions from the Central
Government to the Municipality of Lima did not materialized, and the wholesale
market was not implemented at all. What's more, in 1990, the road maintenance
and traffic management program--the most successful of all four subprojects--was
abandoned. Four reasons explain this resultt (a) macroeconomic instability--
hyperinflation and stagnation created severe counterpart funding constraints
delaying implementation of several components; (b) institutional weaknesses--a
division of functions and responsibilities amcng different public agencies
translated into complex institutional arrangements and management inefficiencies
during project implementation; (c) project design--the multisectoral approach of
the project imposed a complex and difficult institutional burden; and (d) general
suspension of Bank loan disbursements. The erosion of sectoral institutions and
policies during the Garcia administration led to the suspension of loan
disbursements in May 1987. Because of lack of continuity of oupervision work,
the Bank was not able to follow through on the actions taken by the Borrower.
Given the institutional difficulties foreseen at appraisal, a more
selective and closely focused operation could have yielded better results.
Because of its multisectoral approach, the project was highly dependent on a
supportive macroeconomic, institutional and political environment. Although some
constraints could not have been anticipated, institutional weaknesses and
financial constraints were apparent from the beginning.



Obi ectves
The project was primarily conceived as an instrument to support a shift of
administrative and fin4ncial responsibility from the central government to the
MA in furtherance of tbe 1979 constitutional reform designed to pomote local
autonomy.  To achieve this goal, tho project focused ons (t) supporting the
progressive transfer of urban administration to MII; (it) developing investment
planning and infrasttucture management capability within &Mt (CM) improving
WLA's fiscal autonomy; (iv) strengthe.n8g the institutional capacity of MLM in
urban transport, wholesale markets, solid wasto collection and disposaYl and
metropolitan management; and (iv) implementing selected high priority
improvements in infrastructure and services in these sectors.
IMOleazentation BxerienAc
The project experienced considerable delays and other implementation
difficulties. Protracted legal and administrative procedures and deferral in
compliance with financial conditions in the Loan Agreement postponed project
signing and effectiveness. Although the loan was approved on June 21 1984, it
was signed on February 15, 1985--eight months later--and became effective on July
15, 1985.
Implementation problems derived from two critical factors identified at
appraisal: (i) the deteriorating macroeconomic conditions restricting counterpart
funding; and (ii) the multisectoral nature of the project requiring complex
institutional arrangements at the national and local levels. Also, because of
the number of institutions involved in project execution, a strong and consistent
3ank involvement was crucial.   However, because of the suspenaion of Bank
operations in the country, no supervision mission were carried out after 1987.
At that time, the project was behind its physical targets for solid waste, urban
management and wholesale markets. The urban transport subproject, although
partly executed, was later abandoned. Towards the end of the project, the solid
waste subproject was partly executed with moderate success in improving sanitary
conditions while the wholesale market subproject was not implemented.
Sustalinabilitv
A review of this experience suggests that the project had little chance of
being sustainable unless its central objective of strengthening local autonomy
was accomplished. The severe deterioration of institutions, policies, and the
economy between 1986 and 1990, largely precluded the possibility of sustaining
any public sector investment in Lima; much less an operation requiring such
substantial administrative and institutional changes. However, given the fact
that only 30 percent of the total amount of the loan was disbursed, it is very
difficult to assess the prospect for sustainability of this operation.
As it has been the case of most urban operations, management and resource
mobilization were crucial to the project sustainability. Staff of the project



- iv -
coordination unit (Comisi6n Multisectorial Coordinadora) wan disbanded and Pro
Urban (tho Metropolitan Plannig Off ice) was abolished sad replaced by the
Metropolitan Institute, of Planning (IMP). Also, many qualified professionals
left INVERNT, the Metropolitan Trust Fund in cbarge of all operational work
involved in the execution of the urban transport subproject. In sum, much of
the project s efforts to strengthen Lima'a metropolitan institutions were wasted.
In addition, lack of access to financial resources hampered not only the
complation of the project, but the possibility to maintain the efficiency and
productivity of the capital inoested.
Findinf aand Leans Learned
Three critical factore explained the fate of this projectt (i) unfavorable
macroeconomic onvironment; (li) shortfalls in the institutional and managerial
capacity of implementing agencies; and (iii) shortfalls in project design.
Inappropriate macroeconomic policies created severe constraints in counterpart
funds resulting in significant delays during implementation. At the time of
project preparation, it was clear that the  1MA  could not undertake the
responsibilities for project implementation. Although institutional issues were
difficult to anticipate, the appraisal failed to provide an adequate assessment
of the feasibility of implementing institutional and fiscal reform at the pace
required by the project. Furthermore, project design failed to capture the risks
associated with constitutional change and political and economic instability.
These factors, above all, were the main reason for the lack of success in
implementing this project. Additional difficulties arose from ad hoc addition
of project components enlarging the project scope without the necessary rigor in
preparation.
Because of the GOP's difficulties with institutional changes and reforms,
special efforts should have been made to provide suitable training and technical
assistance in the areas of municipal finances and resource mobilization. The
multisectoral nature of the project made it highly dependent on a strong and
competent management which at the time, did not exist.  In this regard, an
appropriate institutional structure centered on the Lima Metropolitan Government
should have been identified and created to handle the multiple sub-projects.
Instead, responsibility for implementation was distributed among nine executing
agencies (parss. 18-20). Additional difficulties could have been avoided by
simplifying project conditionality.   For example, key changes needed for
successful project implementation should have been made up front, before loan
negotiations or loan effectiveness. These include improving MLMs managerial
capacity, simplifying the legal procedures for constituting the Multisectoral
Coordinating Commission (CMC), and giving the Metropolitan Investment Fund
(INVERMET) the legal right to enter into project agreements.
Future Bank assistance for the urban sector in Perti should focus on: (i)
identifying main national factors that could adversely affect the success of the
operation; (ii) resolving these issues during project preparation; (iii) reducing
the vulnerability of the project to institutional changes by simplifying the
scope and content of the project; improving the fiscal and managerial capacity



of Uwnlicpal goveYSu3ts by improv.ng efficiency In the allocatLou and use of
resourcss1 (v) stren8thenin the management of urban infrastructure by inproviug
the technical capacity of municipal institution.; and (vi) ensuring regular and
timely Bamk supervision.



MROM=CT CONPLETION REPORT
LIMA NETROPOLIANDEV%tOPMENT PR,pJECT
(Loan 2451-PE)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW PROM IANR'L- PERSPECTIVE
A.   2ro&ect.!dentitV
Project sam       I    Lime Metropolitan Developmont Project
Loan Number       t    L-2451-PE
RVP Unit          I    LAI - Infrastructure Division
Country           t    Pera
Sector            s    Urban Development
Subsector         a    Infrastructure and Services
B.    Project Background
I.   The Lima Metropolitan Development Project (L-2451-PE) followed major urban
rehabilitation efforts undertaken by the Government in the post-1980 period. A
major issue of national urban policy was the e-rong and pervasive role of the
Central Government in the management of cities, including Lima. The need to
revise this centralized system and to transfer responsibilities to local
governments was recognized in the 1979 Constitution.  The Law mandated the
transfer of key planning functions in the transport sector from the central to
local governments. Responsibility for metropolitan planning was transferred to
local level in 1981/1982, and the control and regulation of public transport and
the installation and maintenance of traffic control devices were formally
transferred in December 1983; although at the time of appraisal, details of the
transfer were still being worked out.
2.    At the time of project preparation, urban management in Per61 was among the
most centralized in Latin America. Furthermore, the role and responsibilities
of municipalities was not clear. The Lima Metropolitan Development Project
attempted to support the Government's decentralization program by supporting
local autonomy, institutional development and functional efficiency in Lima.'
3.   MLain Sectoral Issues in Metropolitan LIma.  The three main concerns
regarding municipal management in Metropolitan Lima (ELX) were: municipal
finance, planning, and staffing. Municipal finances had largely deteriorated as
a result of high inflation. In addition, MLM had very few autonomous budgetary
resources which compounded with a 30 percent decline in the real value of local
1 During 1975-1980, the central administration backed a National Urban
Development Plan to integrate Lima with the major towns of the Central region,
especially those in the Sierra. However, no attempt was made to implement this
Plan. Later, the Belafinde administration supported a "decongestion corridor"
plan to promote urban growth north and south of Lima. Few actions were taken to
implement this strategy other than the partial completion of a coastal expressway
and the development of a new port near Pisco.



-2-
revenues, and 50 percent in Government grants, contributed to the lowest por
capita public expenditures among the large cities in the LAC region. In the
absence of substantial increass in fluancial resources and stronger financial
management at the metropolitan level, the transfer of new functional
responsibilities was bound to proceed slowly.  In terms of planning, the
functional responsibilities of the MA were mostly limited to land-use
regulations and building codas. This control was exercised by zonal offies. of
MLM, whose mainly task was to handle development applications. Shortage of
skilled city management staff was aggravated by austerity measures which
inacreased the disparity between the public and private sector wages, and made It
difficult to attract and retain qualified senior staff in public sector agencies.
4.   The unanticipated growth of low-income neighborhoods, Pueblos J6venes, in
the poriphery of Lima overrode the proposed land use and density regulations and
created distortions in the distribution of urban services.  The accelerated
growth of population, of car ownership and of the urbanised area had placed
tremendous demsads upon the metropolitan transport system. Uncontrolled urban
expansion and rather low density rates had increased journey distances and
neither the quality of the existing road system nor the level of available bus
services had kept pace with demand.  Serious neglect of the maintenance of
infrastructure had increased traffic congestion, pollution and accident rates.
Lack of personnel, equipment and finan(ial resources, and poorly defined
institutional arrangements further hindered appropriate maintenance of existent
infrastructure. Supply of transport facilities to hugh numbers of low-income
dwellers on the city outskirts had become a major problem since the majority of
secondary and local streets were not paved, or were in poor conditions. This had
discouraged the entry of buses, refuse collection trucks and other service
vehicles. In September 1983, the Bank and the GOP agreed on the need to study
urban transportation options--to be financed through the Bank's Public Sector
Management Loan (Loan 2204-PE)--to provide a detailed analysis of feasible
alternatives to meet the growing urban transport demand and traffic problems tn
the city.
5.   Congestion in the wholesale market had created inefficiencies in commercial
transactions. The unplanned growth of the city around and beyond the central
market created additional problem; access roads had become crowded with local
traffic and pedestrians increasing total waiting times in and out of the market
to more than four hours. The GOP and the Bank agreed on the need to increase
efficiency in wholesale transactions by investing in a central wholesale market
under the management of the Wholesale Marketing Corporation (KMISA).
6.    Improvements in refuse management were needed throughout the city. In the
central districto, efficient truck routes and schedules for servicing the
collection areas were lacking. Inadequate transfer stations resulted in journeys
of up to 40 km each way for collection vehicles to deliver refuse directly to
landfills. In the outer districts the problem was low coverage due to lack of
transport equipment. The Bank and the GOP agreed on the need to improve the
coverage and quality of refuse collection services giving priority to low-income
neighborhoods.



-3-
7.   Linka8es E.tween Proct. Sectorg. sd Haro-walo1ig  Obi.ctiges.  Overall
project objectives were in line with the Oovernment policy of transferring
responsibilities to local government, and Improving the efficiency of urban
management for the supply and maitenance of urban services. Because of the
increasing Importance of Um4a in the national econowy--accounting for almost half
of Pero'l GDP--the development of a sound urban management system in the EL.
became the cor. element of the national urban policy. The project was based on
this promise with investments focused on urban transport, wholesale market, and
solid waste.
C.    Proiggt Obiective_ and Description
8.    The Lim  Metropolitan Development Project (Loan 2451-PE) attempted to
improve  wanagerial capacities  in Metropolitan Lima supporting  the GOP's
decentralization strategy. The project focused on strengthening institutional
capacity to Improve the level of efficiency in the provision of urban
infrastructure services bys (a) supporting the progressive transfer of urban
administration from the Central Government to the Municipality of Metropolitan
Limae (b) improving investment capacity within MW; (c) assisting MM's efforts
to develop greater autonomy in tax administration and to increase its revenue
base; (d) strengthening the institutional and managerial capacity of the En in
the areas of urban transport, wholesale markets, solid waste management and
municipal administration; and (d) implementing selected improvements of high
priority infrastructure and services in the same areas.
9.   Decentralization efforts were supported by providing funding for: (i)
implementing an already enacted betterment levy; (ii) evaluating the state of
municipal finances; (iii) Implementing improvements in accounting systems; and
(iv) increasing efficiency in financial and investment planning.
10. In the areas of metropolitan finances and urban management, the main focus
was on updating the cadastral system and providing technical assistance and
training to strengthen KMIs' planning and resource allocation efficiency.
11.   To respond to the basic infrastructure needs while re-directing government
policies and investments for the urban sector, the project focused on: (i)
strengthening MLM's institutional capacity; and (ii) increasing infrastructure
and service coverage in predominantly low-income neighborhoods. Investments in
the transport sector focused on linking the Pueblos J6venes with the Central
Area, improving traffic circulation and pedestrian safety, and implementing
reconstruction works and maintenance activities. Investments in the wholesale
market included development of a new market to replace two small markets serving
Lima. Improvements in solid waste management included construction of a new
transfer station, development of two sanitary landfills, and provision of office,
maintenance equipment, and collection vehicles.



12.   Project Composents.  The project included four subprojects:
(a)   Uisn Transport (US$60.2 million, or 59 percent of total project base
costs) cmpriseds
*     design and construction of traffic managemet schemes linking low-
income neighborhoods to the Central Area,
*     paving of about 100 km of streets in poor areas,
*     road rehabilitation and maintenance--patching and repair of 50 km of
main roads,
*     traffic control and accident prevention program, and
*     technical  assistance  and  training  to  the Metropolitan  Urban
Transport Office (OMTU) and the Metropolitan Investment Fund
(INVEIMET) In procurement, supervision, traffic engineering,
planning, and public transport to address existing institutional
weaknesses.
(b) Wholesale Market (US$24.7 million or 24 percent of total project base
costs) comprised:
*     design and construction of a new market on an 83 hectares site, with
about 30 hectares assigned to retail activities, and 9.5 hectares
for  administration,  services  and  on-site  access  roads.    An
additional 43 hectares were reserved for future expansion; and
*     technical assistance and training to support the Wholesale Marketing
Corporation (EkMSA) in design, construction supervision, market
management and operation, and financial and accounting procedures.
(c)   Solid Waste Management (US$9.4 million, or 9 percent of total project
base costs) comprised:
*     provision of office and maintenance  equipment,  mobile  repair
vehicles, tow trucks, field supervision, and new solid waste
collection vehicles, and overhaul for existing fleet and spare
parts;
*     construction of a new transfer station,
*     development of sanitary landfills with capacity to receive all of
Lima'e solid waste over 20 years,
*     technical assistance and training--partially co-financed by the
Deutsche Gesellschaft far Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)--to
strengthen the efficiency of the Lima Municipal Solid Waste
Corporation (ESMLL) in project implementation, and to improve the



-5-
skill of district staff engaged in the collection of solid waste,
and to promote public awareness, and education; and
*     implementation of pilot projects to develop safe, effective systems
for recycling and cost-effective techniques for refuse ce '.ection.
(d)    rbaMYyuanagement and Prolect Admnistration (US$6.4 -million, or 8
percent of total project base costs) comprisedt
*     improvement of fivancial planning and management,
*     studies to support  the  development  of a city-wide  cadastral
information system, enforcement of a betterment levy, and the review
and execution of additional fiscal measureso
*     studies to guide long-term strategy planning for urban development
in Lima, and
*     technical assistance and training to strengthen the Metropolitan
Development Planning Office (OPDM) of EM.
D.   Prolect Desima and O rani ation.
13.  The process of project preparation was in itself a complex endeavor which,
to a certain extent, explains the difficulties later encountered at the
implementation phase. Ad hoc addition of components were made to the project
initial design without the necessary rigor in preparation. Originally, the
project's main focus was on improving urban transport management through the
creation of the Metropolitan Office for Urban Transport (OMTU). Decentralization
efforts were prouoted through transferring responsibilities for investment
planning and maintenance from national to municipal agencies. Responsibility for
project preparation was under the staff of the Joint Transport Commission '.
Final design was planned to be completed in the third quarter of FY82. Board
presentation was scheduled for FY83.
14.   In December 1981, the GOP requested Bank's financing for a solid waste
manaSeinent Proaram  In Metropolitan Lima.  Three options were discussed in
connection with this proposal.  The first was to include the solid waste
management program as a new subproject in the urban transport project. The
second was to include the program in a proposed urban development project, under
preparation. And the third possibility was to finance the program under a
separate loan. Although the first option was agreed upon, in December 1982, just
two months before appraisal, the final design for the solid waste management
2 This multidisciplinary interagency commission was established in January
1981, and included representatives from the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry
of Housing, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Municipality of Lima. Its main
responsibility was to guide the transfer of functions from the national
government to the metropolitan council of Lima.



subproject had not been clearly defined yet. Only design criteria for landfills
and the transfer stations were agreed at appraisal.
15.   In February 1982, additional changes were made in the design of the project
to include the construction of a wholesale market. By the end of March 1982, the
project had a multisectoral scope and comprised five quite different subprojects,
namely: urban transport, wholesale market, solid waste management, city
administration and urban rail transit (i.e. suburban railway--final design work
ouly). By July of that year, the proj sct scope bad changed from urban transport
to metropolitan development with a corresponding change in project title. The
context of the project by now was changed substantially, although the project
objectives remained the same. The most significant transformation Was the change
in focus from a single sector project (urban transport) to an integrated,
multisectoral, urban development project with ambitious institutional goals. The
loan amount was increased from the original US$60 million equivalent to US$82.5
million equivalent.
16.   The changes mentioned above brought about delays in project preparation.
The appraisal date was moved from September 1982, to March, 1983.  The entire
project preparation unit was transferred from the Ministry of Transportation to
the Municipality of Lima, and Board Presentation was moved from December 1983 to
June 1984. In addition, because of its multisectoral scope, the project bicame
heavily dependent on institutional and organizational efficisncy and very close
and intensive supervision by the Bank. The attempt to address simultaneously a
broad range of subsectors, problems and institutions made this project
particularly susceptible to economic and political instability.
17.   Finapckng. Sixty five percent of the project total financing was expected
to be covered by the IBRD loan, including US$69.2 million in foreign costs and
US$13.3 million in local costs. Total financing was distributed as followst
US$1 million from GTZ for technical assistance and training in the solid waste
subproject; US$5 million from suppliers credits for traffic signals and road
maintenance equipment; US$17.5 equivalent from the GOP, to help finance the
municipal subproject; up to US$20.2 million equivalentlyear from the MLM, through
INVERMET funds'; and an investment of US$2.0 million equivalent by EMMSA from
the sale or lease of surplus land or other sources, and US$1.9 million equivalent
from EM SA--through a loan from the GOP--for the market subproject.
18.   Oraanlzation.  Overall project coordination was under the Multisectoral
Coordinating Commission (CEC) specially created for this project and chaired by
a representative of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce (MEFC). It
also included representatives from ML9M the Public Credit Department of MEFC, the
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTC) and the Ministry of
Agriculture.
3 INVZRMZT reoeived funds from fuel tax and vehicle license fees. As the
metropolitan finance institution it had the financial and executive authority to
enter into and supervise contracts for urban infrastructure on behalf of ML4.



-7-
19. A Municipal Subproject -Coordinator (CMN) had overall responsibility for
coordinating the municipal subprojects and reported to the Mayor of Lima through
the Municipal Director. The main activities of CMP includedt (i) auditing of
project progress; (ii) preparing progress reports to CMCI (iti) identifying
supervision and monitoring problemst and (iv) proposing solutions to
implementation problems. However, no record of effective participation--or even
the existence--of CM? in the coordination of the municipal subprojects was found
in project files. According to these files,.all coordinating activities were
under CMC. Responsibility for procurement for the municipal subprojects was
under MLN, acting through INVERMET.
20.   light public agencies were in charge of project executiont INVERMET and the
Metropolitan Urban Transport Office (OMTU), responsible for the urban transport
subproject; the Municipal Solid Waste Corporation (ESMLL) responsible for the
solid waste subprojects the Wholesale Market Corporation (EMMA), responsible for
the construction and operation of the wholesale market; and the Metropolitan
Cadastre Office (OMC), the General Revenue Office (DGR), the Metropolitan
Planning Office (OPDM), and the Budget Unit (UP) responsible for the urban
management subproject.
E.    Prolect Implementation.
21.   The project Implementation process was marred from the beginning with
persistent difficulties, namely: protracted bureaucratic procedures to legally
constitute CMC and to give INVERMET the legal right to enter into project
agreements; shortage of counterpart funds; and political changes amidst a
continuous economic crisis.  As a result, project execution proceeded very
slowly. Because of the cumbersome legal formalities and lack of counterpart
funds, loan siring took eight months after Board approval (from June 1984, to
February 1985) . The loan became effective in July, 1985, five months after
loan signature, due to delays in meeting conditions for effectiveness'. The GOP
was to transfer funds to the Municipality and to EMSSA.  In addition, the
4 In January 1984, the GOP confirmed its intention to go forward with the
project despite uevere austerity measures. The Government committed itself to
finance 40 percent of total cost.  However, at the last minute, one of the
financing agencies (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento) was unable to provide the
resources it had been promising and the Government could not afford the full
additional amount from its own budget. During negotiations the Bank agreed to
a US$82.5 million loan, while the Peruvian delegation agreed to an overall
financing plan, including US$5 million in supplier credits, higher Government
contribution, and a commiltment from EMMSA to provide US$2 million to fill
financing the gap.
5 Conditions for effectiveness included: (i) delivery to the Bank of legal
opinions regarding loan agreement, the municipality project agreement and the
EMNSA project agreement; (Li) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Borrower and NMQSA; and (iii) registration of the Loan Agreement by the
Direcci6n General de Cr4dito PCblico.



-8-
Ministry of Economy failed to provide OamU the agreed permanent funding for
operations and mangement of the Urban Transport Subproject. This coumitment
never materialized and despite the relatively successful implementation
experience of the Urban Trasnport Subproject, disbursemento lagged appraisal
estimatea. Finally, E2SSA failed to allocate and maintain in the Bank Special
Account the agreed sum of US$400,000. Imediately after loan effectiveness,
EMMSA asked for a delay in the opening of the Special Account.   Serious
underfinacitg due to the general suspension of Bank loan disburseomets and lack
of continuity In Bank supervision after May 1987,6 further frustrated project
implementation.
22.   The final result of the difficulties mentioned above (para 21) is that the
Institutional objectives of the project were not achieved. The institutional
strengthening of INVERMET and OMTU to Improve urban transport management in Lima
did not materialize. Likewioe, the effort to develop greater autonomy ln tax
administration to improve municipal finances was not successful. Most of the
airphoto surveys were not processed and less than half of the City of Lima's
cadastre system was updated. Until today, the Central Government administers the
eadastre system and controls the property tax.
23. The Urban Transoort Suboroject was the project's major achievement (see
table 4).   Careful subproject preparation and efficiency in planning and
management mostly explains this performance. Road rehabilitation and street
paving in low-income areas were generally on schedule, and so was the technical
assistance. These accomplishments notwithstanding, the Borrower's failure to
officially notify the Bank of bidding for the first four sections of a transport
improvement program--The Electric Train Project--prompted the Bank to request
cessation of the construction of the bus corridors that were expected to be
adversely affected by the electric train program. The GOP failed to inform the
Bank of the proposed investment and to provide information on ite technical,
economic, financial and institutional impact on the transport subproject. (Art.
IV, Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement). Studies carried out by CHC revealed a
duplication of investment through the construction of the electric train and the
Tupac AmarfiCaquet& and the Alfonso Ugarte bus corridors. Furthermore, the
construction of these busways would no longer be physically possible as the train
was to utilize almost all of the available right-of-way. The Bank canceled
approximately US$12 million allocated to the construction of these corridors.
This caused delays in the execution of engineering works for the bus priority
routes which had been conceived as a low-cost, first step approach to solving
some of Lima's most acute traffic problems. In 1986, MLM agreed with the Bank
not to initiate works for the electric train on the Tomis Marseano and Pachacutec
corridors until 1988/89. The train project, instead, was supposed to start in
an area not covered by the Bank project. However, spurred by the promise of easy
bilateral funding, the Government decided to disregard the agreement with the
Bank. This certainly became a major issue given the disparity between the
6     Prom March of 1987 to May of 1991, no supervision missions were
carried out.



-9-
train's US$400 million estimated coat and the proven low-cost alternative offered
by the Bank project.
24.  $The iupl.mntation schedule of the Sglid Wasts subproject was adversely
affected by lack of counterpart funds ond administrative and staffing problems.
However, moderate results were achieved in the microsanitery fills pilot program
as well a. in the construction of onm  of the transfer stations.   The
microsanitavy fills pilot program wea to improve the disposal of traditionally
abandoned refuse. This project component was also instrumental in identifying
potential sites to bo used as large capacity, long-term macro sanitary land
fills. A side effect of the pilot program was the creation of new public green
areas replacing the previously abandoned lots. The trash bins pilot program was
also successful. Through this program some 60 trash bins were strategically
placed near key Intersections.   This subproject also benefitted from the
technical assistance provided by GTZ.
25.   Administrative and financial difficulties hindered the implementation of
the Urban Management subproject. This was especially the case for the Lima
eadastre. Lack of counterpart funds and skilled personnel eventually jeopardized
the whole implementation effort.
26.  Implementation of the Wholesale Market subproject failed.  Early during
project preparation there were clear indications that this subproject was going
to be problematic.  Lack of counterpart funds was a chronic problem.   1MM1&
repeatedly postponed the opening of the special account needed to begin
construction (para 21) even though the Bank had already given its approval.
27. Two main issues affected project implementation: (i) the lack of adequate
and reliable counterpart financing; and (ii) the inefficient managerial capacity
of the implementing agencies.   In retrospect, the project design failed to
accurately address two central questions  first, whether the MM had the capacity
and the will to address its management problems; and secondly, to what extent
fiscal reform and improving local financial capacity were feasible at the pace
envisaged under this rather complex project.
28.   Proiect Risk Assessment.   Four major potential risks were correctly
identified at appraisal: (i) difficulties in generating local counterpart funds;
(ii) difficulties in recruiting and maintaining adequate professional staff;
(iii) problems associated with the participation of the Central Government and
the MIM in the project; and (iv) possible implementation delays. In retrospect,
however, the Bank was too optimistic in regard to the viability and timing of the
institutional changes as well as GOP's commitment. to the project. Counterpart
funding was to be assumed by linking local funding to the earmarked revenues of
INVERMET, and earmarked fuel taxes would provide at least US$20 million. Also,
improved tax collections, new taxes and enhanced revenues shared with the Central
Government were considered key elements to overcome the acute shortage of funds
at the local level. Furthermore, for the municipal works, loan disbursements were
front-loaded to minimize financial contributions from the Central Government
during the initial years of project implementation. The possible difficulties
in recruiting and maintaining adequate personnel was expected to be solved by
providing substantial technical assistance and training. Risks associated with
the joint participation of the Central Government and the MLM in project



10' -
implementation would be minimixed by establishing CMC as the overall coordinating
body.    Because the physical components of the project were considered very
simple in nature, no major difficulties were anticipated during the proposed
implementation schadule of seven years.   However, judging by the project
implementation experience, it is clear that the possibility of project failure
on financial and institutional grounds was quite high.
29.    Lack of detailed information combinod vith the fact that only a small part
of the project was implemented has made it difficult to ascertain the final
status of the subprojects . However, from the available data it is possible to
advance some conclusions regarding overall project performance.
30.   The inadequate level of institutional development and the lack of GOP's
commitment played a central role in determining the performance of the project.
Institutional goals were not achieved.   The progressive transfer of urban
administration functions from the Central Government to the Municipality did not
take place.  The Borrower lacked the essential political commitment to set
overall targets for the fiscal performance of municipal administrations so as to
effectively carry out the transfer of responsibilities. As a result, much of the
project's efforts to strengthen Lima's metropolitan institutions was wasted.
31. The economic environment during project implementation (critical changes
in policy, sharp falls in government revenues, hyperinflation, reduction in
public expenditures) explains the project's limited achievements; the eand result
of which was the suspension of Bank disbursements in May 1987, followed by the
cancellation of most investments programmed under the project.   Consequently,
most of the expected benefits did not materialize. For example, investments in
infrastructure remained incomplete; the wholesale market subproject was not
implemented, and only a small part of the Lima's cadastre system was completed.
These failures notwithstanding, the project showed some positive results. The
road maintenance, traffic management sad the solid waste management programs did
accomplish some selected objectives. About 98 percent of paving of unimproved
streets in low-income areas as well as 100 percent of the road maintenance and
traffic management program were completed (table 4). These two programs together
have improved traffic circulation and accessibility of the poorer suburbs to the
Central Area. The solid waste management subproject also achieved some results.
Construction of the new transfer station was completed and 77 percent of the
programmed office, maintenance and transport equipment was procured. The change
in Lime's administration in 1990, led to a shift in investment priorities in
favor of more "visible" works, such as nw roads and interchanges while programs
such as improvements in the system of refuse collection and processing were
abandoned.
7  The last reports received by the Sank--Data Report as of September 1,
1990, and six Month Report for the period ending June 30, 1990--contained less
than detailed description of civil works.



-'}1 -
32.  Because of the cbaracteristics of the transport subproj.ct--mainly
maintenance and improvements in traffic efficiency--the project was expected to
have a very high rate of return (over 70 percent). Benefits were expected to
accrue to all segments of the city's population, although 56 percout of project
costs and 53 percent of its benefitv wore attributed to the relatively poor
(those households with monthly Income under U$225 In 1981 prices). Road pavtng
and improvements in the northern and southern corridors and expanded refuse
collection services were supposed to serve directly the low-incaome neghborhoods,
while the wholesale market was expected to benefit some two-thirds *f the low-
income population of the metropolitan area. The main benefits from all the
transport subproject components were expected to be higher travel speeds,
producing savings in passenger time and vehicle operating costs. Also, this
subproject was expected to have a direct effect oan improving Per6's bslance of
payments through reduction of fuel usage and reduced vehicle operating costs $.
However, because of partial completion of the project and lack of reliable
data, there is no practical way to estimate the project's real impact on the
national economy and on the efficiency of the Lima economy. The same applies to
the distribution of the project's social benefits.
G.   Proecgt Sustainabilitv
33.  A review of project implementation experience suggests that the project had
a chance to be sustainable if the institutional changes envisaged at appraisal
had taken place. First, the proposed transfer of functional responsibilities £or
metropolitan management from the Ministry of Housing to the ELM did not
materialize.   This was especially important with regard to improving the
efficiency of urban management and to develop a long-term sustainable strategy
for public  investment  in urban  infrastructure.    Secondly,  the goal of
institutional and financial strengthening--key to initiating a gradual process
of sustainable metropolitan development--did not materialixe. Thirdly, after the
suspension of all Bank operations in the country, and confronted with scarce
financial, managerial and technical capital, the ELX had little chance of
ensuring the sustainability of the few successful achievements of the project.
In sum, the long-term contributions of the project were curtailed by a weakening
of Government resolve to pursue reforms, the weaknesses in the design of the
project which hampered the implementation of institutional strengthening
activities, and the debilitating Alan Garcia administration which not only
inhibited Bank support for the project, but led to further deterioration of
infrastructure through inappropriate investment and policies, and inadequate
maintenance.
s Estimations of economic benefits for two of the completed components of
the transport subproject are: 139 percent for the Tomhs Maruano corridor, and 316
percent for the Pachacutec corridor. The results show the highly cost-effective
nature of the road rehabilitation and maintenance investments (Part III, table
68.).



- 12 -
B. Bank Performance
34.   Overall, the Bank's performance v"s not satisfactory.  First, the Bank
failed to take Into account two key issues affecting the borrower's overall
performance In project preparation and execution, namely (i) the LM's extremely
week implementation and administrative capacity; and (Ui) the erratic borrower
support for the project even before negotiations.   Secondly, after loan
effectivenese and until loan cancellatiou, the project was under the
responsibility of four different task managers. And third, superviaion reports
failed to provide detailed assessment of implementation progress. There were in
total four supervision missions, and in general, they basically relied on
previous supervision missions.
I.*   Borrower Performance
35.    Wbile borrowers' comitment to the project at the political level was
strong in the beginning, several adverse factors conspired to dissipate such
support, namely: (i) high turnover of project coordinators; (ii) the borrower's
focus on short-term crisis management at the end of the Belalinde government; and
(iii) the advent of the Garcia administration amid a severe economic and
political crisis.
36.  Before loan negotiations, the Minister of Finance had already expressed his
determination to hold public spending dawn, irrespective of the source of
financing. For that reason, INVUERMT was reluctant to go ahead with the project.
further, EM found itself facing additional problems after the creation of OMTi,
since it did not have the financial resources to cover OMTU's operations.
Moreover, during the final years of the Belainde administration it was
increasingly difficult to focus on long-term public sector manasement approaches,
which would provide the basis for continuity in the absence of Bank's support.
Problems of transparency in procurement procedures hindered progress in technical
assistance, while the Borrower failed to honor the objectives of improving
efficiency in the urban transport system by consenting to the initiation of
construction works for the electric train (light rail transit). This constituted
a violation of Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement.
37.   With the suspension of loan disbursements in May 1987, the Government
increasingly paid little attention to loan covenants. In September of 1988, the
Peruvians called bids for the construction of the Lima's Wholesale Market without
following Bank procurement guidelines. Changes in ELM's administration in 1990,
created additional problems. Staff of the project coordination unit (CNC) was
disbanded and Pro Urbe (the Metropolitan Planning Office) was abolished. Also,
many qualified professionals left INVERMET, subsequently reducing the operational
capability of MM to implement the project. In sum, much of the project's
efforts to strengthen Lima' s metropolitan institutions were wasted to the extent
that political and economic changes and inefficient administrative procedures
overwhelmed the borrower's intentions.



- 13 -
J.    zindins and Lessons Lear="d
38.  Three critical factors explain the fate of this project: (i) unfavorable
macroeconomic environment; (ii) shortfalls in the inastitutional and managerial
capacity of implementing agencies; and (iII) shortfalls in project design. The
macroeconomic environment was highly unfavorable during project Implementation,
creating severe constraints in counterpart funds. Weak Inastitutions at the
national and local levels, and difficulties with institutional changes and
reforms were also decisive factors in the project's overall performance. In
addition, as the project became increasingly complex, the institutional capacity
of the implementing agencies became more critical to the success of the
operation. Although institutional problems were difficult to anticipate, special
efforts should have been made, at the spprais` stage, to assess: (i) the
adequacy of the inastitutional arrangements with respect to the project's needst
and (ii) the extent to which the project would be expected to resolve those
institutional issues. Also, because of the number of institutions involved in
project execution, a strong and consistent Bank involvement was needed.
39.   Because of the GOP's difficulties with institutional changes and reforms,
special efforts should have been made to provide suitable training and technical
assistance in the areas of municipal finance and local resource mobilization.
The multisectoral nature of the project made it highly dependent on a strong and
competent management which at the time, did not exist. In this regard, an
appropriate institutional structure centered on the Lima Metropolitan Government
should have been identified and created to handle the five sub-projects.
Instead, responsibility for implementation was distributed among nine executing
agencies (paras. 18-20). Additional difficulties could have been avoided by
simplifying project conditionality. For example, the key changes considered a
prerequisite for effective project implementation should have been made up front
either before loan negotiation or before loan effectiveness. These changes
included improving ME's managerial capacity, simplifying the legal procedures
for constituting the Multisectoral Coordinating Commission (CMC), and giving the
Metropolitan Investment Fund (INVERMET) the legal right to enter into project
agreements.
40. Future Bank assistance for the urban sector in Port should focus on: Mi)
identifying main national/local issues that could adversely affect the success
of the operation;   (ii) assessing the extent to which these issues can be
resolved during project implementation; (iii) reducing the vulnerability of the
project to institutional changes by developing simple, well-targeted and
circumscribed operations consistent with nationallurban strategies; (iv)
improving the fiscal and managerial capacity of municipal governments by
improving efficiency in the allocation of resources;  (v) strengthening the
management of urban infrastructure by improving the technical capacity of
municipal institutions; and (v) ensuring close and timely Bank supervision.
K     Proiect Relationship
41.   Bank relationships with the Borrower were good at the identification and
preparation stages. Difficulties arose, however, early in project implementation



- 14 _
leading to several delays before the initiation of project execution (pars. 23).
Further, there were serious disagreements between the Bank and the Borrower on
compliance with loan covenants (para. 36). Aside from a fragile agreement on the
completion of feasibility studies for the urban rail project, these problems were
unresolved at the time of suspension of disbursements.
L.    Consiltig Servieos
42.  Repeated failure of the GOP to pay outstanding consultants fees and
expenses caused serious disruptions in technical assistance and inhibited
progress with the technical work.
M.   Progect Docume_ntatLon and Dats.
43* Most initial project documents were carefully prepared, particularly with
respect to the Urban Transport subproject. Because of incomplete project files,
especially after suspension of disbursements, information regarding actual
completion of some project components is not available. Thus evaluation of the
final results has proven difficult.



- 15 _
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2451-PR)
Part II.  P-ROJECT-REVIEw FRON BORROWER'S PRSPECTIVE
A.    ANalysis of Key Issues and Matn IIndbnas
1.    "The main objective of the project was to support the Central Government's
initiatives in strengthening local administrations for a more efficient provision
of urban services."
2.    In the case of the Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MUM)t the main
emphasis was on supporting the transfer of human resources and assets from the
Rousing Ministry (General Directorate of Urban Development) to the  LMM, in
concordance with the Organic Law of Municipalities--Decree 051. The law assigns
ULM the responsibility for formulating, executing and supervis.1ng its Urban
Development Plan.
3.   According to the 1979 Constitution, local governments are in charge of
formulating zoning and land use regulations, as well as of providing basic
servicets to the population under their jurisdiction.
4.    If the Project's main objective was to support the Central Government's
initiative to strengthen local government administrations, the policy and
institutional content of these reforms should have been identified at the projact
preparation phase. At the same time, given the large number of Central and local
agencies involved in project execution, their technical as well as financial
participation should have been clearly defined.
5.   As per CMC, managerial and bureaucratic reasons precluded its efficient
performance in providing an effective multi-sectoral coordination.
6.    As stated in part I (para. 23), several difficulties encountered in project
implementation can be attributed to institutional deficiencies both at the
national and local levels. Although, institutional strengthening was one of the
main objectives of the project, its desiga failed to appropriately address the
institutional deficiencies of the MLM.   Major emphasis should have been
concentrated in the design and implementation of an institutional development
subproject to address administrative and financial weaknesses.
7.    The difficulties in recruiting and maintaining adequate professional staff
for project implementation (part I, para. 27) could have been avoided by
optimizing recruitment procedures through appropriate advertising. This would
have enabled the participation of a larger number of competent candidates in the
institutional strengthening subproject. Regarding these issues, CMC's deficiency
was clear, since it did not have a Technical Secretariat that could have
effectively implemented the Bank's as well as the CMC's agreements. At the same



_ 16 -
time, the Bank should also have appointed a project manager in the country, who
could have assisted the MA and the Government in key issues of project
supervision and Bank operating procedures to facilitate project implementation.
8.    One of the main objectives of the project was "to support the progressive
transfer of the urban administration, from the national level to the metropolitan
level and, specifically, a more efficient metropolitan development in Lima."
To achieve this objective, it was essential to accurately assess the NLM's
competence in the provision of urban services, and its capability to efficiently
administer the new roles and responsibilities contemplated in the Government's
decentralization strategy--i.e urban transport, wholesale market, etc.
9.    In 1990,  after  12 years of democratic hiatus in Peru,  the local
administrations entered a transition period in order to organize their new
functions and to consolidate their new financial structure.   This special
situation was not adequately pondered during project preparation.
10.   There was never a clear basis to include all four subprojects in a single
operation; in our opinion, they should have been dealt with in four separate
projects.
11.   The Bank is correct when stating that the complexities of the institutional
reforms were not taken fully into consideration at the appraisa.A stage. In this
respect, the project's strategies should have been based         more explicit
assessment of the inherent capability of the local institutions, particularly
that of the NLM.
12.   As the Bank asserts, the rationale of developing simple and well targeted
operations should have become a central issue in the case of the administrative
and institutional reform planned for the MLI. In this% respect, a local project
supervisor familiar with Bank operational procedures could have prevented
difficulties through timely intervention.
13.   During the short period of project implementation, there was never a clear
indication as to the Government's real commitment on decentralization. As the
Bank clearly states (Part I, para. 33), the GOP's strategy did not effectively
secure MML's complete financial and managerial autonomy, nor did it give NLM a
prominent role in the provision and administration of urban services. As an
example, SEDAPAL, ELKCTROLIMA, ENATRU PERU, etc., are still central government
agencies, totally independent from the MLM jurisdiction.
14.   According to the Bank's evaluation, the MLM relied on obsolete zoning and
land-use regulation instruments for urban development programs.   Since the
beginning of the 1970w, when the Ministry of Housing and Construction (MVC) took
over the responsibility for urban development, most failures have been in the
area of enforcement rather than in the structure of regulation per se.
Therefore, it is no accurate to attribute urban development deficiencies to the
obsolescence of the regulatory system. The proposal for zoning and land-use
regulations under the actual Lima-Callao Metropolitan Development Plan, 1990-2010
is the most important urban development instrument currently in place. Emphasis
has centered on new enforcement criteria within a more flexible approach towards



- 17 -
land-use regulation, administrative decentralization, community participation,
and private sector involvement.
15.   As stated In Part I (para. 23), the Urban Transport subproject was the
project's major achievement. Shortage of counterpart funds, administrative and
staff resources limited the success of the Solid Waste and the Urban Management
subprojects.
16. Up until today, the importance of maintaining and operating an updated
cadastral system for the Lima Metropolitan area has been perennially overlooked.
The project achieved only partial results as to updating the cadastral system.
Although, aerophotographic data gathered for the Lima-Callao region included
almost 100 percent of the surveyed area, less than half of this information has
been interpreted and mapped. Further, the existing real state property charts
covcr only a small area of the city.   The project's attempt to create a
standardized information system for all municipalities of the HMM failed.
Currently, each district municipality is developing its own cadastral information
system using different methodologies for data collection and processing.
Furthermore, up until nov there is no computerized lists of real state properties
in the HML.
17.   Despite this situation, revenues from real property taxes have improved
following an increase in cadastral unit values of land and construction dictated
by the central government. Efficiency in collection is very low. Presently, the
cadastral value of the real property is based on a self assessment method and
taxes are paid accordingly. Not surprisingly, omissions and under-evaluations
are common. The MHM's capability to carry out real property tax assessments
should be strengthened. Since 1992, there have been some efforts to update the
technical capacity of the Cadastre Institute of Lima (ICL) with very positive
results.
18.   In the area of technical assistance only a small portion of the program
conceived unier the project was provided.   Serious technical flaws in the
collection and processing of data prevented de utilization of the strategic land
use transport plan developed by TRANSURB-CLASS--ar international consulting firm.
For example. deficiencies in data collection, the design of alternative case
scenarios sad the simulation model--MICRO-TIP--have undercut the validity of the
proposal. Consequently, none of its recommendations have been taken into account
for the formulation of an urban transport strategy for the MIM. Furthermore, the
transfer of technology and the training activities--crucial to the effective
implementation of the plan--were never executed.   To address the existing
weaknesses in transport planning and management, it will be necessary to carry
out new studies which should ponder the viability of the new transport system
proposed under the Lima-Callao Metropolitan Development Plan: 1990-2010.
Although based on more reliable information and data collection systems than
those applied by TRANSURB-CLASS, the proposed transport system does not include
projections for future transport development strategies.   Studies for the
development of a new Metropolitan Transport Plan are currently being undertaken
by the Metropolitan Institute of Planni Ig of Lima (IMP).



- 18 -
I.    Baik's Performance and Lessons Learned
19.  When preparing a new Project, it is important to have a preliminary study
assessing the .ustitutional organization of 8M and that of its enterprises and
decentralized public institutions. This study should evaluate the ELM's human
resources functions (qualified administrative personnel, etc.), logistic
resources, financial capacity, etc. Also, the Bank should carefully evaluated
the feasibility of multi-swctoral institutional coordination--at the central as
well as the municipal govermnant level--in the implementation of the new Project.
20.   In the case of a multisectoral project including several different sub-
projects, these should be of the ssme or similar nature. In the case of sub-
projects pertaining to different sectors, it is recommended that each sub-project
be executed separately. However, in those cases where several implementing
agencies are involved, it is important that coordinating and managerial
responsibility for the whole operation remains under the umbrella of a single
institution.
21.   In designing urban projects, the Bank should give greater attention to
potential implementation problems and keep project design as flexible as possible
to facilitate adjustmonts to rectify implementation difficulties.
22. It is recommended that the Bank designates a project supervisor in the
field to provide permanent moaitoring of project execution.  Progress reports
should be done on a monthly basis.
23.   Any  new  urban  rehabilitation  project  for  the MLA  should  include
institutional strengthening among its components.   Technical assistance and
training should support effective metropolitan planning and management to enable
the MLM to assume increased responsibilities for the provision of urban services.
C.   Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned
24.   The Multisectoral Coordinating Commission (CMC) should have had a Technical
Secretariat responsible for project implementation as vell as for the execution
of the CMC's agreements.
25.   Hiring of qualified technical and administrative staff should have been
handled in accordance with previously established regulatory procedures. The
same should have been considered for the procurement of equipment and for
contracts for the provision of goods and services.
26.   A much better coordination could have been achieved by nominating an
alternate to the spokesman of the MLU in CMC so as to facilitate the scheduling
of and attendance to meetings.   In order to improve communication and to
facilitate immediate response to implementation problems, these meetings should
have been held on a weekly basis.
27.   Presently, the Lima-Callao Metropolitan Development Plan, 1990-2010, is the
instrument for urban planning in Metropolitan Lima. It has been officially



- 19 -
approved and distributed among all relevant public and private organizations in
the region.    Implemantation and supervision of the Plan are under the
responsibility of the Metropolitan Institute of Planning (IMP)--an autonomous
organization that provides advisory services to the City Council as well as to
the Mayor'. office. The Lima-Callso Metropolitan Development Plan should be the
strategic framework for any new urban rehabilitation operation in the region.
At the same time, in the case of creating a project coordinating committee, the
IMP should have a representative in that commission.
D.    frojecJtRelationshin
28.   Since the present MW's administration did not participate neither in the
preparation nor the Implementation of the project, and since the CMC been
disbanded, most of the project's memory has been lost. Therefore, evaluation of
the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower has proven difficult.
29.   In 1991, the present MM administration discussed with the Bank the
possibility of reprogramming project expenditures. In May 1992, a proposal to
that end was delivered by Arq. Enrique Espinosa Bellido-- representative of the
Mayor of LIda and President of IMP--to Mr. Eleoterio Codato, Task Manager of the
project. At that time, Mr. Espinosa Bellido delivered to Mr. Codato the CMC's
Semester Report, Of. CHC.012.91 of the "Lima Metropolitan Urban Development
Project - Loan 2451-PF, ending December 31, 1990. Mr. Codato was pleased with
the creation of IMP, which clarified a misunderstanding about CMC's and PROURBE's
inactivity, which hindered urban development planning in Lima.
Z.    Evaluation of Co-financiers' Perfonmance
30.   As stated in paragraph 30, most of the facts related to the parties
performances and relationship cannot be properly assessed.



Loanitle                  Purpose             Year of          Status            Comments
_____________________I____________________    Approval
1283-PEI                  Provide water sewerage,      1976         Completed     Imp antion delays;
Perd: Urban Sites and     housing and electrification                             adverse macroeonomic
Services Development     to low-income                                            and financial conditions:
Project                   neighborboods in Lima
and Arequipa.                          _                                                   g
S-lI-PEI                 Assess water resources in    1978         Completed     Of the US$8.8 million
Per6: Water Supply and    Lima.                                                   loan, US$0.68 million              0
Sewerage Enginring                                                                was cancelled.
Project                                                                           Implementation delays;
weak administrative
capability and lack of
counterpart fuids.
2139-PE/                  Expand the capacity of       1982         Cancelled     US$41.6 million loan,
Perd: Lima Water Supply   the Lima water supply                                   later reduced to
and Sewerage Project      and sewerage systems.                                   US$27.0 million with
US$14.6 million
cancelled. Lack of
Borower commitment
and weak institudonal
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,   .__     _  _ _  _  _    _ _  _  _   _ _   _  _     _   capacity.



-21 -
Table 2.  bWgImeal
Ihtem                   Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                          1981
Preparation
Appraisal                    09/82                  04/06J83
Loan Negotiations                                       04111/84
Board Presentation               12/83                  06/21/84
Loan Signature                                         02/15/85
Loan Effectiveness                                       07/15/85
Loan Closing                 12/31/91                 01/22/881
Project Completion              06/30/91                05/01/912
t Date of last disbursmeat.
2 Date of cancellation.



Bank FY            1984      1985       1986       1987       1988        1989        1990        1991        1992
Apprai__
AJ"Mld            10.301      6.40      27.10     22.50     7.5O2          3.00        2.00       3.30        0.40
Cunwautat ve      10. 30     16.70      43.80     66.30       73.80       76.80       78.80       82.10      82.SO
_                                      ~~~~~~~~~AcMud 
Aumal             0.80   j  0.95        16.05      19.58      24.72       24.72   I  24.72  1 24.72   J   0.00
Cunuulazive   |7.77|  S.69   |  36.64  |  29.53 3             33.50   |  32.19   |  31.37         31.37   |   0.00
This repesenb ths establihment of th spec il aount to cme ghest quarte of expedits pls firt semester tasfrs and reStrive finncing.
2 Only 76% of qulified expendturs WWOe expetd to be reimbured during bs ten semesterno   faciiae wovey of qpeia accout deposits.



-23-
Table 4.    e_
Key  dicators     [Appraisal Esmate   [       Acual-            % Completed
-Design & Studies            160.0 m.m            160.0 m.m             100.0
-Traffic Signals              100.0 IN              0.0 IN                0.0
-Civil Works                  131.6 km.           128.3 km.              97.5
-Rehabilitation and
Mainenance                    50.0 km.            50.0 km.              100.0
-Technical Assistance        432.0 m.m            224.6 m.m              52.0
- Design                         - -                                    100.0
- Civil Works                    --                                       3.0
- Lad Provision                                                         100.0
|SolidWat
- Design/Civil Works                                                  31.0151.0
- Equipment                                                              77.0
- Technical Assistance       396.6 m.m            200.0 m.m              50.7
Urban Mngmn
- Technical Assistance       230.0 m.m            40.2 m.m               17.5
- Studies                    132.0 m.m            109.6 m.m              83.0
- Project Maagement                                                      41.0



24-
Table S. Proect Cost andEiandgg
A. Projet Costs
Item        I Appraisal        % Tota Costs        Actual         % Totl
(US$ million)  _                 (US$ million      Coss
Urban Trnport             85.8             63.1             33.6           64.0
Wholesale Market          29.2             21.5              9.1*          17.4
Solid Waste               10.3              7.6              6.6'          12.6
Urban Management           7.3              5.4              2.6           4.9
InerstMarket
Construction               2.9              2.1             0.4            0.7
Front-end Fee              0.2              0.1             0.2            0.4
Total Costs              135.9            100.0             52.5         100.0
* Actu4b cowt8 are lower than those estimated at appis parldy becas subprojects wer not fuly executed (see
Table 4).
B. Project Financing
(US$ minlio)
Souro            A i             % of Total        Acul            % of Total
_1RD                     82.5            60.7             24.7             57.7
GOP, EMSSA,
f INVBItT                47.4            34.9             17.1             40.0
GTZ                      1.0             0.7               1.0              2.3
Suppliers Credits        5.0             3.7              0.0               0.0
Total Financing        135.9           100.0              42.8            100.0
Balanas of Augt 14,1990. Data provided by CMC.



-25 -
Table 6. PmJc Results
A. Direct Beneft
1.    Because of partial completion of the project, and lack of reliable data, there is no practical means
to estimate the project's real impact on the national economy as a result of improvements on metropolitan
planning and coordination, nor on the efficiency of Lima's economy.
2.    With respect to the economic benefits of the project, the following table shows the Borrower's
partial evaluadon of the two completed sections of the urban transport component. This economic
reeauation has been based on the methodology used in the appraisal report. Benefits are estimated for
a five-year period after the construction of the two corridors.
B. Economic Rate of Return
|        Components          [     Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
TomEs Marsano Ave.                     139 %                         139 %
| Pachcutc    LL 313 %                   316 %
Underlying assumptions:
(a)    The main benefits from these two components were expected to be higher travel speeds, and
lower vehicle operating costs.
(b)    Annual benefits would stop rising after 5 years.



- 26 -
Table 7A. St    gf Cove
Status of Special Covenants in the Project Agreement
Secdon              Description of          Deadline for             Statu
Covenats               Compliance
2.01 (a)          MLM to carty out        ue 30, 1991           Partally  complied
parts A, C and D of                           (ptsA & B)
the Project
2.07 (b)          MLM to inform the      September 30, 1985     Parily complied
Bank of any
condition that
interfere with the
compliance of Parts
A, C, & D.
September 30, 1987
2.08 (f)          MLM  to  furnish                              Not complied
assessment of
measures to
improve its financial
autonomy
September 30, 1985
2.08 (g)          MLM  to  furnish                              Not complied
results  of  the
metropolitan
financial-planning
and mgmt. system
2.10            MLM  to  ensure                                Complied
land rights and land
acquisition for
transfer station
2.12            MLM   ensure                                   Not complied
necessary steps to
discontinue
wholesalemarketing
activities in old
markets



- 27
Table 7B. Stabs of
Status of Special Covenant in the Project Agreement
Section             Description of         Deadline for              Status
Covenn                Compliance
2.01 (a)          EMMSA  to carry       June 31, 1991          Not complied
out part B of the
project
2.01 (b)          Appoint  a  Sub-       March 3, 1985          Not complied
project Director for
part B
2.03            Procurement  of        N.A                    The  works  and
goods  and  chivl                            goods financed out
works  to  be                                of Xbs proceeds of
financed out of the                          the Loan followed
proceeds  of  the                            the  provision  of
Loan must follow                             Schedule 4. of the
provisions  of                               Loan  Agreement
Schedule 4 of Loan                           until Aug.  1986
Agreement                                    when disbursements
were suspended.
2.07 (b)          EMMSA to inform        N.A                    Partially complied
the Bank of any
condition that
interferes with the
progress of Part B
Complied
2.08            EMSSA to ensure        N.A
land right and land
acquisition for
wholesale market



- 28-
Table 7B. Sau ot            (cot.)
(EMMSA)
Staus of Special Covenants in the Project Agreement
Section             Descripdon of           Deadline for              Ss
Covenants             Compliace
2.08             EMMSA to ensure        N.A                    Complied
land rights and land
acquisition for
wholesale market
2.10             E M M S A   to         Septmber30, 1987       Not complied
d i s c o a t i n u e
wholesale marketing
activities in La
Victoria district
4.04 (a)          EMMSA to forish        December 31, 1987      Not complied
its estimates of
aal  costs  of
p e r i o d i c
maintenance.
4.04 (b)          EMMSA  to make         N.A                    Not complied
a n n u a I
contributions,
commencing on
01/31/88, into a
fund for the
financing of
maintenance
expenditures
4.06(a) iO          EMMSA to ear a        N.A                     Notcomplied
minimum annual
return of 8% for
FY89, and of 12%
thereafter



- 29-
Table IC.         _
Status of Special Covenant in the Loan Agreement
Section         Description of Covenants    Deadline for Compliance   Status
3.02            Borrower to form a steerig  September 30, 1985     Complied
committee composed of
members from the
Ministries of: Transport,
Economy and Finance,
Agriculure, the Province of
Callao, MLM, and the
private bus company
4.02 (a)        Borrower to inform the    N.A.                      -'e complied
Bank of any investment
proposed for the urban
transport sector in the
MLM in excess of $10
million
4.02 (b)        Borrower to provide the   N.A                      Not complied
Bank icformation pertaining
technical, economic,
financial and instiutional
impact of any investment
on Part A of the project.
4.03            Borrower to have the      N.A                      Partially complied
Special Accounts for each
fiscal year audited and
furnish to the Bank the
respective reports
6 (a)           Any payment out of the    N.A                      All payments made
Special Account must be                            bef-ae May 1987
eligible and justified                             were eligible and
justified



hMAu Yew
-  #PCyd.                          a9tt     amS2    mos      t9S4     a S      teS      am      m  ts t  o SW    1990    t99t    a99       to"      to
Thauugb II                                  5.7     31.9     10.2    0.0                                                                            20.'
Dm1 Alf ,u                                                            9.4                                                                            9i4
_                                                                              03      243                                                           2x 
S5uka                                                                                  15.9    t6.6      LS      0.        5 03    .7      0         X.0             0 
comph"t9                                                                                                                                             1.9
TOTAL                                                                                                                                               2. 
oc Aboe 7 pet l u "mug3                                         D t er_ smdedp .



-31 -
Table 8 (coaL)
B. Missions
Baus Of Proo      MNY.            Noof   owe in       OpwlIL            Ottu      Prokm
-  -Cid                          PW"        ROW
Clals~~~~~~~ P.en                         .. ld
Thrugh ApprW    01181            2       a              TM
03181          2       1              TM ;ns
04/            2       3              TM:UP
Gem            2       10             Lo, *o;
12181          4       a              TM; Eno
1V21           I       a              Coam
01/82          1       13             conw
0482           1       2              TM              1
07/82          5       13             TM;E6gfACon   2         M
Appsl Though   048               8       20             FAk:Eng;Coos  1          F
Bord Appml t18 4                 1       a              CNs             1       M
Board Appl        09/84          4       8              TM;En;LO;RA    i        P
Tugh BE tvoss
8uAelon           1W86           2       5              TM.Eng.         2       0
own            1       10             TM              2       0
0918           I       11             TM              2       0
087            1       a              TM              2       0
0i667          I       9              TM              2       FM
011            1       15             UP              4       FPMO
Onmpks*n          068            8       6              TM;Ed;Coos.     3       FM PO
Note:   S     e    _ Cons.- 0onsw_Itsbi; Epa SoonomeE  g.- Engneeir; PA- Flno  AnalysF LO  Lowan Ofier;
FU-ReAearo Ar ssant TM- Task Manwer UP= UWb  Planwne
3wg: 1- prber4m or miwor probem; 2- Moderae probm  3- Mor pbem; 4- Mor prblem not appropr* addrms
TM*            F- Pieoll M- Mana-edel T, Teoholoal Pm Po-o; 0- Ote.



