Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       FILE COPY
Report No. 478lb-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJBC T
May 29, 1984
FILE COPY(
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Sol (SI.)
March 1983                                                 May 15, 1984
US$1      =  S/1,172                                       US$1     = S/3,025
S/.1      =  US$0.00085                                    S/.1      = US$0.0003
S/.1,000  =  US$0.85                                       S/.1,000 = US$0.33
System of Weights and Measures
Metric
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 mile (m)
1 metric ton       = 2,205 pounds
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAF       Corporacion Andina de Fomento
Andean Development Corporation
CM        Comision Multisectorial
Multisectorial Commission
CMC       Comision Multisectorial Coordinadora
Multisectorial Coordinating Commission
CMP       Coordinador Municipal del Proyecto
Municipal Subprojects Coordinator
DGR       Direccion General de Rentas
Revenue Office
ESMLL     Empresa de Servicios Municipales de Limpieza de Lima
Municipal Solid Waste Corporation
EMMSA     Empresa de Mercados Mayoristas S.A.
Wholesale Marketing Corporation
ENATRU    Empresa Nacional de Transportes Urbanos
National Urban Transport Corporation
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GTZ       German Technical Assistance Agency
INVERMET  Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones en Fideicomiso
Metropolitan Investment Fund
MEFC      Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce
MH        Ministerio de Vivienda
Ministry of Housing
MLM       Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana
Municipality of Metropolitan Lima
MTC       Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones
Ministry of Transport and Communications



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OMC       Oficina Metropolitana de Catastro
Metropolitan Cadaster Office
OMTU      Oficina Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos
Metropolitan Urban Transport Office
OPDM      Oficina del Plan de Desarrollo Metropolitano
Metropolitan Development Planning Office
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
UP        Unidad de Presupuesto
Budget Unit of MLM
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................   1
II.   METROPOLITAN LIMA AND THE URBAN SECTOR ......................  3
A.  Urbanization and the Primacy of Lima .......                     3
B. National Urban Policy                   .......  4
C.  Lima Metropolitan Government               .......    5
D.  Institutional Development .. .........                   .       5
E.  The Issues of Metropolitan Management           .......   6
(i)   Municipal Finances   .                                    6
(ii)  Planning .......................................   6
(iii) Staffing ........................................  6
F.  Other Sectoral Issues in the Lima Metropolitan Area ....... 7
(i)  Urban Transport ...................................  7
(ii)  Wholesale Markets .... ................... ......  9
(iii) Solid Waste Management ... ............ ........... 10
G.  Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector            .......  10
III. THE PROJECT ...............                         . .    11
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives ......................  11
B.  Main Features of the Project ........                . .        12
(i)   Urban Transport Subproject .......................   12
(ii)  Wholesale Market Subproject ......................  14
(iii) Solid Waste Management Subproject ................  15
(iv)  Urban Management Subproject ...,.................   16
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN ............**.o.......    18
A.  Cost Estimates                          ... ,.18
B.  Financing Plan   .       ...                             .      1
C. Flow of Funds                      .......  20
D. Procurement                       .......  21
E.  Disbursements   ...                                             22
Fo  Accounts and Audits . ... e.. ...    oe.. o.... o..o.........o   23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission and a
post-appraisal mission that visited Peru during April and May 1983 and
February 1984 respectively. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. C.-H.
Mumme (Mission Leader), S. Alber, LCPUR; G. Menckhoff, ASP; D. Arbour, S.
Cointreau, G. Kroll, R. Paraud, and M. Thomson, Consultants. The
post-appraisal mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. C-H. Mumme (Mission
Leader); J. Flora, S. Whitehead; G. Yabrudy, LCPUR, and S. Cointreau
(Consultant). Miss Martha Behar assisted in the production of the report,
which has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster, IDF2.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................... 24
A.  Institutional Arrangements   ............      .......    24
B.  Status of Project Preparation ......................... 26
C.  Implementation Schedule .....             ......................... 26
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ............................. 27
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................... .          .   e.....  27
A.  Metropolitan Finances: An Overview       . .................. .     27
B.  Action Program             . .        .      ............. 27
C.  Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones (INVERMET)..ET. 29
D.  Empresa de Mercados Mayoristas S.A. (EMMSA) ............ 29
(i)    Financial Performance on Existing Operations ... 29
(ii)   Proposed Market ................................ 30
(iii)  Financial Management .............. ............. 30
VII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS        c...                       31
A.  Economic Justification ...................  ............. 31
B.  Distribution of Project Benefits  . ................       32
C. Environmental Impact . ................................. 33
D.  Project Risks ............................    .......... 33
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................... 34
TEXT TABLES
4.1   Project Cost Summary ................................ 18
4.2   Financing Plan  .......                        ........ a.....   20
ANNEXES
1.    Organization Chart of the Municipality of Lima ............ 38
2.    Detailed  Cost  Table  ....* ....   .. . ..... . ...................  39
3.    Procurement Arrangements .....      ..................... . . 40
4.    Disbursement  Schedule  ............................... . .... *41
5.    Details of the Management System ..........  ................ 42
6.    Implementation Schedule/Physical Indicators ............... 45
7.    Key Institutional Actions .................................    46
8.    Key Evaluation Indicators ... ... .     ......... .............. 51



-iii-
Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
Annexes (continued)
9.    Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenditures for
Lima Metropolitan Area ....................... . .. . .. .      54
10.   Comparative Historical Financial Statements - INVERMET.,  55
11.   Projected Revenue and Funds Flow - INVERMET.                     57
12.   Comparative Financial Statements - EMIMSA       .........        59
13.   Projected Financial Statements - EMMSA         ..........        62
14.   Key Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis .................. 65
15.   Results of Economic Evaluation ............................      67
16.   Sensitivity Tests ......................                 .       68
17.   Distribution of Project Benefits ....        ....  .. .. 69
18.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .          70
MAP
IBRD - 17613 Lima Metropolitan Development Project






PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Peru
Beneficiaries:    Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MLM) and Wholesale
Marketing Corporation (EMMSA).
Amount:            US$82.5 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  For the market subproject, the Borrower would on-lend
US$22.4 million equivalent for 17 years, including six
years of grace, with the same interest rate as the Bank
Loan. EMMSA would bear the dollar-sol exchange risk.
Project            The proposed project would support (a) the progressive
Description:       transfer of urban administration from national to local
government and, specifically, more efficient metropolitan
management in Lima, the capital of Peru, as well as (b)
improvements in high priority infrastructure and services
in the areas of urban transport, solid waste and
wholesale marketing. About 53% of benefits from the
infrastructure and services improvements would accrue to
low-income residents. Principal subprojects would be:
(a) traffic management improvements throughout the city,
paving of about 100 km of streets in low-income areas and
road rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) construction of
a new wholesale market; (c) provision of vehicles,
equipment and transfer station capacity and development
of two landfill sites to meet the needs of the city's
solid waste agency and the city districts; and (d)
institutional strengthening through studies, technical
assistance and training of the agencies charged with each
of the above activities as well as improvements in city
planning, municipal finance and coordination of urban
investments and project administration.
Special Risks:    Risk of local funding difficulties during a period of
national austerity would be addressed by relying mainly
on local funding from an earmarked source (gasoline tax
revenues). Risk of inadequate professional staff within
the Municipality would be mitigated by requiring
contracting of implementation advisors initially for the
largest subproject, transport, and by providing training
for municipal staff. Any problems of coordination
between national and municipal agencies would be eased by
the Multisectoral Coordinating Commission.



-2-
Estimated Costs*                        Local         Foreign        Total
------------US$ million----------
(a)  Urban Transport                 26.6          33.6            60.2
(b)  Wholesale Market                15.4           9.3            24.7
(c)  Solid Waste                      2.0           7.4             9.4
(d) Urban Management and Project
Administration                 2.2           4.2             6.4
(e)  Project Preparation Facility     0.0           1.0             1.0
Base Cost                     46.2           55.5          101.7
Contingencies: Physical        5.1           4.7             9.8
Price           9.2          12.1            21.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   60.5           72.3          132.8
Interest during construction of
market                              0.2           2.7             2.9
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan            0.0            0.2            0.2
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             60.7           75.2          135.9
Financing Plan
World Bank                           13.3           69.2           82.5
Government, EMMSA and INVERMET       47.4            0.0           47.4
GTZ                                   0.0            1.0            1.0
Suppliers Credits                     0.0            5.0            5.0
TOTAL                                60.7           75.2          135.9
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY             1985    1986   1987   1988  1989   1990   1991  1992
----------------------US$ million ----------------
Annual              16.7   27.1   22.5    7.5   3.0    2.0    3.3   0.4
Cumulative          16.7    43.8   66.3   73.8  76.8   78.8  82.1  82.5
Rate of Return:          The economic rate of return is estimated at around
70% for those parts of the project with directly
quantifiable benefits. These represent 78% of
total project costs.
* Project costs include US$9.0 million in identifiable taxes and duties.



- 3 -
II. METROPOLITAN LIMA AND THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urbanization and the Primacy of Lima
2.01      The population of the Lima Metropolitan Area grew fram less than
3.2 million in 1972 to 5.1 million in 1983 and will probably reach at least
8.0 million by the end of the century. Nevertheless, its annual growth
rate slowed to less than 3.8% in the 1972-1981 intercensal period compared
with 6.1% between 1961 and 1972. Thus, earlier fears of a Lima of more
than 12 million in the year 2000 are no longer justified, even if recent
natural disasters (i.e., the floods in the north and the drought in the
south) lead to increased migration to Lima in the short run.
2.02     Many secondary cities in the three major ecological regions of
Peru (Coast, Mountains and Jungle) are now growing faster than Lima, so
that the trend of the national urban system is toward greater balance.
Nevertheless, there are fewer than a dozen cities with more than 100,000
population, and Lima is more than double the size of all of them combined,
accounting for 28% of the national population and 53% of the total
population in cities and towns with more than 20,000 population.
2.03       The slowing down in the rate of urbanization and the faster
autoncmous growth of secondary cities justify a strategy for allocating
resources both to Lima and to other selected cities. The logic of numbers
dictates that Lima should be the first priority, although, in the longer
run, a public investment strategy for Lima should be complemented by
investments in secondary cities. Such an approach would be consistent with
strengthening the economy of Lima, with the development of strong regional
economies based on secondary cities, and with distributive equity (the
greatest concentration of poor people being in Lima).
2.04      The urban sector has been deprived of public investment since
1968, initially because of the Government's rural bias and, more recently,
because of tight budgetary constraints. The failure to invest in urban
areas is now impairing their economic efficiency and adversely affecting
household welfare levels, already reduced in recent years by falling real
wages.
2.05      An inefficient Lima implies an inefficient Peru because the
Metropolitan Area produces more than 90% of the national output of capital
goods, two-thirds of national consumer goods and almost all of the
country's financial and business services. As a result, the Lima
Metropolitan Area accounts for almost half of Peru's GDP.  It is therefore
vital that the city should be well managed and maintained; this, at
present, is not the case.



- 4 -
2.06      The concentration of economic activity in the capital has not
been associated with improvements in real incomes or in their
distribution. About 54% of the households are absolutely poor, while about
62% are relatively poor (para. 7.11). More than three-fifths of the
population live in central city slums (tugurios) or peripheral squatter
settlements (including illegal invasions or pueblos jovenes). Moreover,
despite the slowdown in Lima's growth, population continues to grow faster
than the rate at which public services are being expanded.
B. National Urban Policy
2.07      Recent governments have proposed various strategies to discourage
the growth of Lima. During 1975-1980, the government backed a National
Urban Development Plan to integrate Lima with the major towns of the
Central Region, especially those in the Sierra, but left office before any
attempt was made to implement the Plan. The present government has
supported a "decongestion corridor" plan to promote urban growth north of
Lima (at Huacho-Barranca) and south of Lima (at Pisco-Chincha Alta). Few
actions have been taken to implement this strategy other than the partial
completion of a coastal expressway and the development of a new port near
Pisco. The northern pole has negligible potential while industrial
potential near Pisco is too small to have much prospective impact on the
growth of the Metropolitan Area. To invest in either area instead of Lima
would be a costly and high-risk strategy, probably resulting in
underutilized infrastructure and minimal impact. Moreover, the spontaneous
deceleration in the growth of Lima revealed by the 1981 census makes any
strategy to disperse economic activity and population within a much larger
coastal region of dubious merit. The Bank has been discussing these issues
with the country in the context of its sector dialogue.
2.08      Even in the absence of a shift in the balance of concentration
between Lima and the rest of the urban system, a major issue of national
urban policy is that Peru has perhaps the most centralized system of urban
management of any country its size or larger in the region. The fact that
the local sector accounts for only 2% of consolidated public expenditure is
one measure of the fact that the management of cities, including Lima, is
strongly concentrated in the National Government. The need to revise this
system and to transfer responsibilities to local governments was recognized
in the 1979 Constitution, and, while the effects of this new Constitution
apply most obviously to Lima, they are also relevant to other cities. This
revised framework recognizes an urgent need to improve the efficiency of
urban management and, concomitantly, of most urban networks and services.
The development of a sound urban management system and public investment
strategy for Lima is therefore crucial and must be the core of any national
urban policy for Peru. The proposed project is an important element in the
evolution of this strategy.



- 5
C. Lima Metropolitan Government
2.09     Metropolitan Lima is the most populous of Peru's provinces and is
divided into 41 districts. The provincial government, the Municipalidad de
Lima Metropolitana (MLM), is headed by an elected Metropolitan Council
which sets policy for the metropolitan area and has a Municipal
Coordination Assembly made up of the districts' mayors. The province does
not include the port of Callao, which is constitutionally independent, with
special provincial status.  The chief executive officer is the MLM Mayor,
elected at three-year intervals. The Mayor of MLM is also the Mayor of
Lima Cercado, the historic center of the city. Because of the continued
high degree of district administrative independence, however, coordination
within MLM remains difficult.
D. Institutional Development
2.10     MLM controls the Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones (INVERMET)
(para. 6.05) and the Empresa de Servicios Municipales de Limpieza de Lima
(ESMLL) (para. 6.03) as well as 12 executive departments (social
communication, planning, legal administration, police, revenue, public
works, private construction, population and human affairs, education,
culture and sport, health and environmental sanitation and product
marketing).  INVERMET is MLM's trust fund to finance municipal
infrastructure works. ESMLL is responsible for the transfer of solid waste
and the landfills in the Metropolitan Area. The collection of solid waste
has been a traditional function of the districts, and ESMLL is responsible
only for the collection of solid waste in Lima Cercado. Maintenance of
main roads, except for some intercity roads maintained by the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC), is primarily the responsibility of the
districts. Retail markets remain a district responsibility, but wholesale
markets are managed (until now with little coordination with other
activities in the Metropolitan Area) by a national body (Empresa de
Mercados Mayoristas S.A.--EMMSA) presently under the Ministry of
Agriculture. The proposed project would ensure that the wholesale market
would be closely coordinated with other activities in the Metropolitan Area
and would analyze the institutional framework for an eventual transfer of
the wholesale market to MLM. National corporations are responsible for
electricity, water and sewerage and telecommunications. These
organizations undertake their own project planning and implementation,
largely without consultation with the municipal authorities. The
organization chart of MLM is given in Annex 1.
2.11     As noted in paragraph 2.08, the new Constitution of 1979 mandated
the transfer of key functions, particularly in the transport and planning
fields, from the central to local governments. The initial transfer of
power in Lima was handled by a Comision Multisectorial (CM), which
consisted of members of MLM, MTC, and the Ministry of Housing (MH).
Beginning in late 1983, the Comision Multisectorial Coordinadora (CMC),
established by decree (Decreto Supremo), replaced CM. MLM is setting up an
Oficina Metropolitana de TransEortes Urbanos (OMTU) for urban transport



-6-
(para. 5.04) and has already established a Metropolitan Development
Planning Office (OPDM) to replace the,old Plan Lima Office which operated
within MH. Responsibility for metropolitan planning was transferred to the
local level in 1981/82, and the control and regulation of public transport
and the installation and maintenance of traffic control devices were
formally transferred in December 1983, although details of the transfer are
still being worked out.
E. The Issues of Metropolitan Management
2.12      The outstanding needs for improved management capacity in
Metropolitan Lima may be summarized in terms of three main issues:
municipal finances, planning and staffing.
(i)   Municipal Finances
2.13      Historically, MLM has had very few autonomous budgetary
resources, and inflation in recent years has reduced the real value of
local revenues by about 30%, and of Government grants by about 50%, for
1983. The consolidated operating and capital budgets for all 41 districts
amounted to about US$56 million equivalent (US$1i per capita) of which Lima
Cercado, the central area, accounted for about 30%. This figure probably
represents the lowest per capita expenditures for any large city in Latin
America. All but a small part of total resources finance operating costs,
capital outlays being on the order of US$6 million in 1983. In the absence
of substantial increases in financial resources, and of stronger financial
management at the metropolitan level, the transfer of new functional
responsibilities is bound to proceed slowly.
(ii) Planning
2.14      Planning in  Lima is presently limited to the control of current
development. This control is exercised by zonal offices of MLM, whose task
is to handle development applications. These offices have achieved some
success in regulating land use through standardized zoning practices.
However, the comprehensive plan (Plan Lima) being used as a framework for
land use regulation is obsolete (it was prepared in 1972) and is based on
assumptions which have proved to be incorrect. The unanticipated growth of
pueblos jovenes has altered the patterns of proposed land use and density.
The transport strategy which envisioned the development of a rail system
has not become a reality. Neither have the development of a proposed road
network nor a Central Area plan. The need for a compehensive strategy to
guide decisions affecting land use and transport development in the
Metropolitan Area is urgent.
(iii) Staffing
2.15      There is a serious shortage of skilled city management staff, and
the situation has been aggravated by recently imposed austerity measures.
The municipal departments are all subject to municipal terms of employment
and salary levels. The disparity between the public and private sectors



makes it difficult to attract and retain qualified senior staff. There is
currently no systematic training within MLM, and career development is
nonexistent. As a result, the quality of staff engaged in various aspects
of metropolitan management is generally inadequate.
F. Other Sectoral Issues in the Lima Metropolitan Area
(i) Urban Transport
2.16      Rapid growth of population, of car ownership and of the urbanized
area has placed tremendous demands upon the metropolitan transport system
and upon the resources - financial and organizational - to expand and
improve it. Every aspect of the network is in need of expansion or
improvement; there is, however, both a lack of funds and a lack of capacity
to plan, implement and manage the needed projects.
2.17      All transport in Lima is by road.  Traffic congestion, with
resultant delays in the movement of people and goods and excessive use of
fuel, is common in the central area and on major approaches to the city.
Accident rates are high. These conditions are less a result of inadequate
space devoted to roadways than to their mismanagement and inefficient use.
Signing and channelization are generally poor or non-existent, and street
vendors encroach on many major streets. Traffic signals are outdated and
uncoordinated and, in some places, contribute more to the problem than they
help to reduce it.
2.18      The performance of the transport system must be evaluated in
conjunction with the land use pattern of the city. Lima has expanded
outward at rather low densities, with little high building and little
coordination of housing, employment and shopping. Journey distances are
often long, and neither the quality of the existing road system nor the
level of available bus services have kept pace with demand. A major
problem has developed in supplying transport facilities to the huge numbers
of lower income people on the city outskirts, particularly in the Cono
Norte and Cono Sur areas. Environmental conditions along the main roads
are generally deplorable.
2.19      In the older, built-up areas, all main roads and most side roads
are paved, but in the outlying low-income neighborhoods, the majority of
side roads are not paved and are generally in a poor state, discouraging
the entry of buses, refuse collectors and other service vehicles.
2.20      Lack of personnel, equipment and financial resources, and poorly
defined institutional arrangements have resulted in severely inadequate
maintenance activities. As a consequence, the road network is
deteriorating (surface and base failures), resulting in rising operating
costs for the public transit fleet and for private and commercial vehicles.



- 8 -
2.21      Taxis are plentiful and cheap and provide an effective service
for those who can afford them, although mechanical and operational
standards are generally poor.  For those in lower income groups, however,
buses are the only available transport. As of December 1983, 1,148 buses
were registered by 20 companies or cooperatives, and another 6,900 buses--
known as microbuses but covering a range of sizes-- were registered by
individuals or associations. A further 560 colectivos (shared taxis on
fixed routes) were registered. The largest organization is ENATRU, the
state-owned company, with 808 buses. Owners of micros and colectivos are
formed into committees for the purpose of organizing route operations. The
route structure has gradually evolved on the basis of a flat fare and is
characterized by highly circuitous routes, all entering the Central Area.
Fares are established by the Transport Tariff Regulatory Commission
within MTC; they are based on operating costs developed by the Commission.
Route structure is also determined by a commission (Conision Tecnica Mixta)
within MTC.
2.22      An outstanding problem regarding bus service is lack of
capacity. Long queues and excessive waiting times to travel on overcrowded
buses are common. Conditions are particularly bad in the Cono Sur. The
shortage of buses contributes to the reluctance of bus owners to extend
services to outlying areas, so that many people have a long walk to reach
the nearest bus route.
2.23      The shortage of available buses is attributable partly to the
lack of spare parts.  Furthermore, the bus fleet is too small and the
average age of vehicles is excessive, reflecting the impact of import
controls and import taxes. There may also have been insufficient
incentives (in terms of profit and security) to invest in buses. Fares
have been controlled during a period of rapid inflation, and the leading
private operator is currently reporting large operating losses. The
Government is now, however, permitting the importation of 3,000 new buses
in two contracts for 1,300 and 1,700 units respectively. During 1983, all
necessary agreements were signed for the delivery of the initial 1,300
units, and the first buses arrived at the beginning of 1984. It appears,
however, that only 260 of the additional 1,700 units will be ordered by
microbus operators. A bus maintenance agreement, part of the contract for
the 1,300 buses, has been signed with Volvo. Moreover, the proposed route
rationalization and tariff study (para. 3.14(b)) would make more efficient
use of the existing bus fleet.
2.24      A 1972 study, undertaken by experts financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany, recommended the construction of a metro. A more
recent study (1982) called for a surface light rail system along an
available right-of-way between Villa El Salvador in the south and Comas in
the north of the city. During the preparation of the proposed project, it
became obvious that available data and analysis do not permit a proper
evaluation of the mass transit alternatives. Therefore, in September 1983,
it was agreed that a study of mass transit alternatives would be financed
through the Bank's Public Sector Management Loan (Loan 2204-PE). A first
phase would result in the identification of the most feasible



- 9 -
alternative(s), while a second phase would involve a detailed study of
those alternative(s). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government and MLM would (a) inform the Bank of any proposal to
undertake major transport investments in the Lima Metropolitan Area in
excess of US$10 million during the project implementation period; (b)
provide information on the impact of such investment on the Bank project;
(c) give the Bank an adequate opportunity to comment on the technical,
economic, financial and institutional aspects of the proposed investment;
and (d) agree not to execute any investment that would adversely affect the
urban transport subproject of the proposed project (para 8.03(a)).
(ii) Wholesale Markets
2.25      Wholesale marketing of fruits and vegetables in Lima is mainly
carried out in two markets located in the La Victoria district, about two
miles from the city center. The main market was built in the 1940s when
the population of the city was about one-fifth its present size. The
congestion problem now encountered results partly from its design and
partly from the subsequent growth of the city. Consumption of fruits and
vegetables has increased roughly in proportion to the population and is now
about twice the efficient handling capacity of the wholesale markets
(700,000 tons). In addition to the inadequate size of the markets, their
design and facilities are obsolete and do not permit the introduction of
modern handling and storage.
2.26      The present wholesale markets are grossly congested, and clients
are obliged to devote long periods of time to completing their
transactions. The city has spread around and beyond the markets, and
access roads have become crowded with local traffic and pedestrians.
Trucks have difficulty in approaching the markets and must queue for long
periods before entering. Total waiting times, in and out of the markets,
typically exceed four hours. Wastage and pilferage and the loss of value
due to damage, deterioration and theft are high, while the unplanned growth
of low-income residential streets around the market area has led to public
health hazards and marked social deterioration.
2.27     The markets are managed by EMMSA, but the sites and facilities
belong to the district La Victoria. In 1964, a study to find a suitable
location for a new market was commissioned, and a site at Santa Anita in
the Ate district near the Carretera Central was selected and acquired. A
feasibility study was undertaken in 1972 by a local consulting firm. The
study was updated in 1982 by EMMSA with the assistance of the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO).
2.28     There is no question that the existing markets should be replaced
and closed down. Modernization would be extremely difficult and expensive
if carried out while the markets continued in operation. A major



- 10 -
enlargement of capacity would require multilevel operation, which would be
costly. The site could never accommodate adequate parking and is
unsuitable from the point of view of access and environment.
(iii) Solid Waste Management
2.29      Improvements in refuse management are needed throughout the
city.  In the central districts, trucks do not have efficient routes or
schedules for servicing their collection areas. The lack of transfer
station capacity means that many collection vehicles have to deliver
directly to the landfills, involving journeys of up to 40 km each way.
Consequently, these vehicles usually can make only one collection round,
and collect less than a full load per shift. In the outer districts, the
major reason for low service levels is the lack of equipment. While the
outer districts generate almost the same amount of refuse as the central
districts, they are served by only about 25% of the number of vehicles.
2.30      These problems are aggravated by inadequate maintenance and
repair service, which result in less than 60% of the fleet being available
at any one time. In addition, most of the refuse of Lima is presently
deposited in open dumps, which are smoking, unsanitary areas. Because of
their poor access and condition, the dumps are a major cause of equipment
failures.
G. Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
2.31      In addition to the mass transit study mentioned above
(para. 2.24), the Bank made an Urban Development Loan (1283-PE of October
12, 1976 for US$21.6 million) which focused on Lima and Arequipa. It
included the provision of sites and services, water supply and sewerage
networks as well as the expansion of electric connections and health
facilities in low income areas and industrial parks. After initial delays,
the pace of execution picked up, and the project was completed in early
1984. Because of much-higher-than-expected inflation, negative real
interest rates have developed which will inhibit the achievement of the
project's cost recovery objectives; however, the project has demonstrated
the feasibility of low-cost shelter solutions. Discussions leading to a
new national housing project are being centered upon the importance of a
revised system to adjust interest rates for the sector. Complementary to
the Urban Development Loan, the Bank helped to finance water supply and
sewerage systems in Lima through Loan 2139-PE (of June 4, 1982 for US$40.6
million). Inadequate water tariffs and institutional weaknesses have kept
this project from progressing at a satisfactory pace. However, during the
first semester of 1984, the Government raised water tariffs 30% in real
terms. It has also selected a management consultant to assist it in
institutional improvements. The Central Government, rather than the
Municipality of Lima, is responsible for the water agencies and sector
policies through its Ministry of Housing.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is fundamentally conceived as an instrument
to support a shift of administrative and financial responsibility for
metropolitan management in Lima from national to local government, in
furtherance of the 1979 constitutional reform described in paragraph 2.08.
3.02      This constitutional amendment was designed to promote local
autonomy but it will take considerable time, perhaps 10 to 15 years, and
great determination, to replace a tradition of centralized management of
urban areas with effective local government since the skills required for
metropolitan planning and coordination must be acquired, and this cannot be
achieved quickly. The proposed project, through providing institutional
support for administrative decentralization as well as tangible improve-
ments in three of the basic urban systems, should thus be regarded as the
first stage of a gradual process and the first step in a program of
continuous metropolitan development.
3.03      The proposed project has been developed in the context of the
financial and institutional constraints which affect Lima and in the
absence of a long-term strategy for metropolitan development, but in the
setting of a firm political commitment to devolution and more efficient
urban planning and management. In designing the proposed systems
improvements, the emphasis has been placed on short and medium-term schemes
and on the effective utilization, maintenance and rehabilitation of
existing capacity rather than on new investments except where, as in the
case of the proposed market, there is no alternative.
3.04      The proposed project has been appraised and would be implemented
while long term policy decisions articulating a program of devolution on
urban management and administration, staffing, funding, local resource
mobilization and revenue-sharing with the Central Government are being
made. An important opportunity exists for the Bank to participate in the
shaping of these decisions and to help guide the process along sound lines.
3.05      The primary objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   support the progressive transfer of urban administration to MLM
as mandated in the 1979 constitutional amendment;
(b)   develop land use, transport and investment planning capability
within MLM and to assist it in developing greater autonomy in tax
administration and in increasing its revenue base to gradually
assume new responsibilities;
(c)   strengthen the institutional capacity of MLM in the urban
transport, wholesale markets and solid waste sectors and in
metropolitan management; and



- 12 -
(d)   implement selected high priority improvements in infrastructure
and services in the urban transport, wholesale markets and solid
waste sectors, which would have a major impact upon the
functional efficiency of the metropolitan area and would directly
improve the living conditions of the urban population and,
particularly, of the low income population.
B. Main Features of the Project
3.06      The project would include four subprojects: urban transport,
wholesale market, solid waste management and metropolitan management
(Map IBRD 17613).
(i)   Urban Transport Subproject
3.07      Cono Norte.  This component involves detailed design,
supervision, and construction of traffic management schemes along the major
roads in this corridor, linking the predominantly low-income areas in the
north to the Central Area. Elements include the construction of segregated
busways and improvements to access control and intersection geometrics.
Safety features include median barriers, pedestrian signals, sidewalks,
crosswalks and signing, and marking.
3.08      Cono Sur.  Traffic management improvements similar to those in
the Cono Norte would be made to the major roadways in the southern corridor
connecting the low income suburbs to the Central Area. Bus lanes would be
introduced rather than segregated busways.
3.09      Central Area.  To improve traffic circulation, the operational
efficiency of buses and pedestrian safety, four major elements are included
in the Central Area component:
(a)   Central Area Study.  This study would develop a traffic
circulation plan and provide detailed feasibility analysis and
functional designs for (i) an area traffic signal control system
(approximately 500 intersections covering the central and
outlying areas), (ii) traffic management measures, and
(iii) reconstruction of Avenida Alfonso Ugarte.
(b)   Traffic Control System.  Based on the analysis and functional
design developed in the Central Area study, this element would
include final design, supervision, and implementation of the
first stage of a coordinated traffic signal control system; would
cover approximately 100 intersections in the Central Area.
(c)   Avenida Alfonso Ugarte.  Based on recommendations included in the
Central Area study, this peripheral road would be reconstructed
within existing rights-of-way to provide segregated busways and
an underpass at Plaza Dos de Mayo. Detailed design, supervision
and construction would be included.



- 13 -
(d)  Traffic Management Measures.  Following the proposals developed
in the Central Area study, a program of low-cost traffic
management actions would be implemented to support the traffic
improvement system. Final design, supervision and construction
of this program would be included.
3.10      Paving in Low Income Areas.  This component involves the design,
supervision and implementation of a program to pave about 100 km of
unimproved streets in low-income areas. The program is designed to
integrate with the corridor improvements.
3.11      Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(a)   Deferred Maintenance.  Limited resources have caused many routine
maintenance activities to be postponed. This component would
represent a "catching-up" activity to bring many major roadways
back to a condition where routine maintenance can be performed.
It involves patching and repairs to the surface (but not complete
resurfacing) of approximately 24 km of roadway.
(b)   Road Rehabilitation.  As a result of inadequate maintenance, many
sections of roadway have deteriorated to the point where routine
maintenance and periodic maintenance are no longer feasible.
This component provides for the patching, resurfacing, and repair
to the base of approximately 26 km of roadway where major failure
has occurred.
(c)   Road Maintenance Program.  The previous two components are
necessary to correct physical problems resulting fran the lack of
a coordinated and effective maintenance program. To correct this
organizational inadequacy, the proposed project would fund a
study to develop recommendations for a road maintenance program
including its institutional framework, organizational and
manpower needs, standards and procedures, required equipment,
programing and financing. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that MLM would present the results of this study,
covering the institutional framework, budget requirements and
proposed financing, to the Bank for review and comment by
December 1985 (para. 8.03(b)).
(d)  Equipment. Based on recommendations of the maintenance study,
equipment would be purchased to assist in the implementation of
the recommended program.
(e)   Technical Assistance.  To improve maintenance practices during
the period prior to the outcome of the maintenance study and to
assist in implementing the recommendations of the study,
technical assistance would be provided to the districts.
3.12      Enforcement Program.  Technical assistance and training as well
as motorcycles, radios and other equipment would be provided to the traffic



- 14 -
control unit of the Guardia Civil (police) to improve mobility and
effectiveness in traffic control, traffic law enforcement and accident
investigation and prevention.
3.13      Equipment.  Equipment essential for project implementation would
be purchased for OMTU and INVERMET using loan proceeds.  Such equipment
would include vehicles, office equipment, drafting and measuring equipment,
traffic counting equipment, calculators and microcomputers.
3.14      Technical Assistance, Training and Studies.  A major objective of
the proposed project is to address existing weaknesses in INVERMET and
OMTU, the offices which would be most directly involved in implementing the
transport subproject and which would have long term responsibility for
Lima's transport system. This institutional strengthening would occur
principally through technical assistance and training activities for both
INVERMET and OMTU during project implementation. Elements of the technical
assistance, training and studies, in addition to those already discussed
for the road maintenance and enforcement programs, would include:
(a)   INVERMET.  Consultants would be hired to work with INVERMET
counterpart staff in project implementation. There would be two
specialists in procurement, a highway design engineer, and a
street maintenance specialist. Short courses in the development
of specifications, contracts, and procurement, as well as in
project inspection and control, would be provided.
(b)   OMTU.  Consultants would be hired to work with OMTU counterpart
staff in traffic engineering, transport planning and public
transport. Training in the form of work-study grants and short
courses (to be taught in Lima) would be provided. Several
studies would be carried out, including the development of a
strategic land use transport plan (executed in conjunction with
OPDM as a part of the development plan), a Central Area Study,
and a Route Rationalization and Tariff Study.
(ii) Wholesale Market Subproject
3.15      Wholesale Market.  A new wholesale market (called "Santa Anita")
would be constructed on an 83 ha site owned by EMMSA some 7 km east of the
city center (para. 2.27). This market would replace the two small (7 ha
total) markets which currently serve Lima (para. 2.25). The master plan
for the site indicates that about 30 ha would be devoted to wholesaling
activities at the expected time of opening at the end of 1986. An
additional 7 ha would be for administrative and service activities, while
another 2.5 ha would be for on-site access roads and control stations. The
remaining land would be reserved for possible market expansion beyond
1986. A capacity throughput of 1.7 million metric tons would be achieved
with construction of the first phase. This capacity would be fully
utilized within three years of market opening, and additional construction
would be required at that time. The final detailed design, construction,
supervision and operation of the Santa Anita market would be carried out by
EMMSA.



- 15 -
3.16      Technical Assistance, Training and Studies.
(a)   Assistance to EMMSA.  Although EMMSA is considered to be a fairly
strong agency, with responsibility for managing wholesale markets
throughout Peru, the proposed project includes additional
technical assistance to ensure that the complexities of
designing, constructing, and operating a large, modern market
with high throughput can be achieved. Experts would be hired to
assist EMMSA in the following areas: design, construction
supervision, market management, market operation, and financial
and accounting procedures. Additionally, a consultant would be
hired to advise on an appropriate strategy to relocate some 1,200
existing wholesalers to the new market.
(b)   Training.  Prior to opening the new facility, the project
director for EMMSA would be sent abroad to review operations of
similar markets. The project includes funds for this training
activity.
(c)   Studies.  Three studies would be carried out as part of this
subproject: a long-term plan covering the location and size of
future wholesale market(s); development of institutional
alternatives for an eventual transfer of responsibility for the
wholesale market to MLM; and development of a new packaging
scheme to reduce waste and facilitate handling.
(iii) Solid Waste Management Subproject
3.17      Equipment.  A central facility for ESMLL with administrative
offices and workshop space has recently been completed. Under this
subproject, office and maintenance equipment, mobile repair vehicles, tow
trucks, and vehicles for field supervision would be provided.
3.18      Collection Vehicles. Provision of solid waste collection
vehicles, overhaul of compaction vehicles owned by MLM, and provision of
spare parts for remaining vehicles not requiring complete overhauls are
included.
3.19      Transfer Facilities.  A new transfer station would be provided,
and the capacity of an existing transfer station would be expanded.
Development of the new transfer station would involve civil works such as
access road building, construction of a small administration/sanitary
facilities building and the installation of hoppers and weigh bridges.
Transfer vehicles would also be procured. The land for the new transfer
station has been acquired by MH, and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that MLM would obtain the ownership of the land for the new
transfer station by December 1984 '(para. 8.03(c)).
3.20      Landfills.  Two strategically located sanitary landfills would be
developed as key operational nodes of the solid waste system. The city
already owns both sites, which, together, have the capacity to receive all
of Lima's solid waste over the next 20 years. The development of access
roads and preparation of sites would be undertaken, including the
installation of weigh bridges. Bulldozers for spreading and grading solid



- 16 -
waste and soil cover, and payloaders for excavating and hauling soil cover
would be included.
3.21      Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance and
training are included, and part of their cost is co-financed by the German
Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ) (para. 4.09(b)). GTZ has already begun
pre-project technical assistance in order to strengthen the local staff who
would deal with project implementation. The technical assistance and
training would be provided to ESMLL, together with training for district
staff engaged in the collection of solid waste and in public awareness
education. The proposed program includes funds for pilot projects which
the technical assistance team would help to design and implement. The
pilot projects would be conceived to develop safe, effective systems for
recycling and cost-effective techniques for refuse collection.
(iv) Urban Management Subproject
3.22      Planning.
(a) A planning study of the Lima Metropolitan area would be
undertaken building on the comprehensive development plan, (Plan
Lima) produced in 1972. The general objective of this study is
to recommend strategies and policies to guide urban development
in Lima in the long term (through 2005) and medium term (through
1996). Specific goals are to:
(i) develop a Directional Plan for the long term development of
Lima which would establish the land-use and transport
strategies and policies to be followed; and
(ii) develop a Design Plan which would establish an investment
program for transport development over the medium term within
the context of the Directional Plan.
(b) Technical assistance and training are included in this subproject
to strengthen OPDM. This support would enable OPDM to assume a
stronger and more positive role in the development and execution
of current and long-range planning for the Lima Metropolitan
Area.
3.23      Municipal Finances.
(a)   Cadaster.  Under a US$5.4 million equivalent turnkey contract and
French export financing, a group of French firms would provide
the equipment and technical assistance to begin the process of
establishing urban development cadastral data throughout the
Metropolitan Area. Initially, the turnkey contract would cover
an area of about 20 km2 where new development has been
concentrated in recent years. In addition, an assessment would
be made of the organizational and staffing requirements of MLM to
extend the area covered and to update the data periodically.
Training would also be provided under the contract. To
complement the work of this contract effectively and to ensure



- 17 -
continued functioning once it has been completed, the project
would include funds for experts with specialized skills in
computer processing and data management.
(b)   Betterment and Local Taxation.  A broad review of local taxation
as it relates to the nationwide taxation system has recently been
completed under the Public Sector Management Loan (Loan 2204-PE).
The study emphasizes implementation of the recently enacted
betterment tax; operational guidelines and regulations are
expected to be completed by July 1984. A more explicit review is
required, however, of metropolitan finances in Lima, particularly
in view of changes in functional responsibilities for
metropolitan management and, consequently, the need for a
significantly larger capital investent program. Under the
proposed project, US$450,000 would thus be allocated to fund:
(i) implementation of the betterment tax following the completion
of operational guidelines and regulations; and (ii) review and
implementation of additional fiscal measures.
(c)   Metropolitan Financial Planning and Management.  Financial
programing is presently based on yearly budgets which consolidate
the revenues and expenditures of the metropolitan administration,
including each of the district and municipal offices. The
coordination of investment planning with other public sector
agencies operating in metropolitan Lima is, however, not well
established. Introduction of service costing and pricing systems
and multi-year program budgeting in MLM has become urgent as a
means of establishing and monitoring operational and financial
policies, especially since metropolitan operations and
investments are expected to expand significantly as devolution
proceeds. Under the proposed project, a detailed review would be
undertaken to identify and implement improvements in accounting
systems, and in financial and investment planning (para 4.19).
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MLM would present
the results of this review, including recommendations for
followup actions, to the Bank for its review by December 1986
(para. 8.03(p)).
(d)   Equipment.  Office equipment, including reproduction equipment,
microcomputers, calculators, and drafting equipment would be
provided for MLM and CMC under this subproject. The necessary
vehicles to conduct the programs would also be purchased.
3.24      Coordination.  The Municipal Project Coordinator (CMP) of MLM
would be responsible for carrying out all coordination activities of the
municipal subprojects (para. 5.03); funds to finance the hiring of the CMP
would be provided under the loan.
3.25      Project Management.  Funds would be included for a declining
share of salaries of incremental senior personnel and support staff within
MLM and CMC. These would supplement counterpart funds on a transitional
basis to finance the additional staff needed for project implementation.



- 18 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total estimated cost of the project, including land, is
US$132.8 million, of which US$72.3 million (54%) is foreign exchange.  The
base cost estimates are in June 1984 prices. The project cost includes
identifiable local taxes and duties which amount to US$9.0 million, or 6.8%
of the total project cost. Summary cost estimates are presented in Table
4.1 below. Estimated total financing required, including interest during
construction and the capitalized front-end fee, amounts to US$135.9 million
(para. 4.07). Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 2.
Table 4.1 Project Cost Summary
In US$ million
Foreign as of
Subprojects                     Local   Foreign   Total          % of Total
1.  Urban Transport              26.6    33.6        60.2            56
2.  Solid Waste                   2.0      7.4        9.4            79
3.  Urban Management              2.2      4.2        6.4            66
4.  Market                       15.4      9.3       24.7            38
5. Project Preparation
Facility                      0      1.0       1.0            100
Base Costs                   46.2    55.5      101.7             55
6.  Physical Contingencies        5.1      4.7        9.8            48
7.  Price Contingencies           9.2    12.1        21.3            57
Total Project Cost           60.5    72.3      132.8             54
8.  Interest - Construction       0.2      2.7        2.9            93
9.  Front-End Fee                   0      0.2        0.2           100
Total Financing Required   60.7    75.2        135.9             55
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works are based on preliminary
engineering designs prepared by OMTU, EMMSA and ESMLL and their
consultants. Unit base costs were developed from recent contract rates for
similar works and from information provided by contractors. Equipment
costs are based on current prices in Peru.
4,03      Design and supervision costs (combined) range from 6% to 11%
depending on the complexity of the works.  These costs are based on current
estimates of such costs in Lima.
4.04      The costs of technical assistance, training and studies are
based on recent worldwide experience for similar services. The project
includes 1,391 person-months of technical assistance, training and
studies. Details are available in the Project File.



- 19 -
4.05      Physical contingencies have been estimated at 15% for civil
works. Total costs for physical contingencies are US$9.8 million.
4.06      Peru continues to use a system of regular adjustment in its
exchange rates relative to hard currencies which approximately covers the
difference between domestic and international inflation. Therefore, price
contingencies in project costs are calculated on US dollar base values and
are estimated at 3.5% for 1984, 8.0% for 1985, 9.0% for 1986 through 1988,
7.5% for 1989, and 6.0% for 1990 and 1991, amounting to a total of US$21.3
million.
B. Financing Plan
4.07      The proposed Bank loan of US$82.5 million would finance 65% of
the estimated total financing required (net of taxes and duties), including
US$69.2 million in foreign costs and US$13.3 million in local costs. Bank
financing of local costs is justified by the importance of the project in
improving the efficiency of urban management, urban infrastructure and
urban services and by the urgent need to improve social conditions in Lima
(see Chapter VII, B). The loan would include US$1 million to refinance the
PPF advance, the capitalized front-end fee of US$0.2 million, and US$2.7
million for interest and other charges during construction on the market
subproject.
4.08      Proceeds of the Bank loan related to the market would be onlent
by the Central Government to EMMSA as a US$ denominated loan at the
variable IBRD interest rate, repayable in 17 years with six years of
grace.  The cross currency risk would be borne by the Government.  Proceeds
of the Bank loan related to the transport, solid waste and urban
management subprojects, which are occasionally referred to in this report
as "municipal subprojects," would be passed on to MLM as a grant.  These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations (para. 8.03(d)).
4.09      Counterpart financing for the market subproject would be provided
by an investment of US$2.0 million equivalent by EMMSA (from the sale or
lease of surplus land or other sources) and by a loan from the Central
Government of US$1.9 million equivalent, on terms satisfactory to the Bank,
currently projected at 12% interest for eight years with three years of
grace. In addition, government-owned land, valued at US$12.1 million, has
already been transferred to EMMSA, of which US$5.8 million represents the
pro-rata value of land being used in the Bank-financed subproject.
Counterpart financing for transport, solid waste and urban management
subprojects would be provided as follows:
(a)   MLM would contribute, from INVERMET funds, during 1984 through
1990, up to US$4 million equivalent per year up to a total of
US$20.2 million to help finance the municipal subprojects;
(b)   GTZ would grant US$1 million to help finance the technical
assistance and training component of the solid waste subproject;
(c)   Suppliers credits of US$5 million would be provided for traffic
signals and road maintenance equipment; and



- 20 -
(d)   The Government would provide a budgetary contribution of US$17.5
million equivalent, in the period 1986-1991, to help finance the
municipal subprojects.
These arrangements were agreed during negotiations (para. 8.03(e)).
4.10      If the suppliers credits for traffic signals and road maintenance
equipment are not forthcoming and if EMMSA is unable to provide the
required counterpart financing, government would also provide financing in
the amounts required. These arrangements were agreed during negotiations
(para. 8.03(e)). The details are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2 Financing Plan
In US$ million
Total Fi-   Bank Loan              Central GTZ   Sup-
Subprojects  nancing Re- Passed on as INVERMET Govern-  Grant pliers  EMMSA
quired a/   Grant  Loan            ment           Credit
1. Urban Trans-
port b/     86.0   43.3             20.2   17.5            5.0
2. Solid Waste
Management  10.3    9.3              -      -        1.0   -
3. Urban Manage-
ment         7.5    7.5              -      -        -     -
4. Market        32.1      -     22.4     -      7.7 c/  -      -       2.0
TOTAL    135.9   60.1    22.4    20.2   25.2       1.0   5.0     2.0
a/  Includes Front-End Fee
b/  Includes Project Preparation Facility
c/  Includes land valued at US$5.8 million equivalent
C.  Flow of Funds
4.11      MLM, through INVERMET, would be responsible for the financial
administration of the municipal subprojects (transport, solid waste and
urban management), and EMMSA for the market subproject. Two working
accounts would be established in the Banco de la Nacion by the Central
Government to cover estimated expenditures for the municipal and the market
subprojects respectively. Simultaneously, in order to also accelerate
disbursement, the Central Government would establish two corresponding
Special Accounts at the Banco de la Nacion into which the Bank would make
initial deposits estimated to cover the Bank's share of three months of
expenditures (US$8.0 million). During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the Special Accounts, together with the working accounts, would be
established and that the Bank's initial deposits in these special accounts
would not be made until MLM's and EMMSA's advances into the working
accounts were made (para. 8.03(f)). Reimbursement of the Bank's share of
expenditures from the Special Accounts would be claimed upon presentation
of withdrawal applications by INVERMET or EMMSA to Banco de la Nacion,



- 21 -
which applications, in turn, would be forwarded to the Bank fully
documented for replenishment of the Special Accounts. The Bank would
require a monthly statement of the Special Accounts which would reflect
transactions during the previous month.
D. Procurement
4.12      Procurement arrangements are summarized below and further details
are provided in Annex 3.
(a)   Civil Works.  Approximately 70 contracts are expected to be let,
ranging in value from approximately US$15.5 million (market
subproject) to less than US$500,000 (for the paving subproject
component). Local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures,
acceptable to the Bank and documented in the project file, would
be used for approximately US$35.7 million comprising about 50
contracts. These contracts would primarily involve road
maintenance and rehabilitation and paving in low-income areas.
Because of the nature of the work, the contracts are not likely
to attract foreign bidders, and, in an effort to provide
opportunities to a large segment of local industry, individual
contracts would not exceed US$1.0 million. Other civil works
would be divided into suitable lot sizes in an effort to allow
wide participation by local firms while still attracting foreign
contractors. These contracts would total approximately US$49.5
million and would be subject to international competitive bidding
(ICB). Contractors would be allowed to bid for more than one lot
depending upon capacity. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations (para. 8.03(g).
(b)   Equipment.  Following the Bank's guidelines for procurement (July
1980), ICB would be used for all equipment with the exception of
approximately US$2.6 million for small equipment contracts, for
which local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) would be
applied. Any single contract using LCB would not exceed
US$50,000. Contracts for goods estimated for US$10,000 or less
may be awarded for the lowest price out of a minimum of three
quotations from local supppliers, provided that the aggregate
cost of goods would not exceed US$500,000. These arrangements
were confirmed during negotiations (para. 8.03(g)).
(c)   Consultants All consultants financed under the loan would have
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and would be hired in
accordance with Bank guidelines under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. This arrangement was confirmed during
negotiations (para. 8.03(g).
4.13      Prior Bank review and approval of bidding documents, bid
evaluations and recommendations for contract awards would be required for
all contracts subject to ICB under the four subprojects (transport, solid
waste, market and urban management). The Bank, through its supervision
missions, would review, ex-post and on a sample basis, all other contracts
not subject to ICB.



- 22 -
4.14      Bank review and approval would be required for the final design
of the following subproject components: (a) Cono Norte; (b) Cono Sur;
(c) Central Area (all components); (d) about 5 km of each of the low income
area paving and rehabilitation and deferred maintenance components;
(e) transfer stations and landfills; and (f) market. These arrangements
were confirmed during negotiations (para. 8403(h)).
4.15      Up to US$1.1 million, to cover final design, technical assistance
and some equipment expenses incurred during 1984, would be financed
retroactively. This arrangement was confirmed during negotiations (para.
8.03(i)).
E. Disbursements
4.16      Disbursement categories of the loan would be as follows:
(a)   100% of total expenditures for consultant services and training
for the municipal subprojects (US$16.9 million equivalent);
(b)   100% of total expenditures for consultant services and training
for the market subproject (US$1.5 million equivalent);
(c)   100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures for equipment and
supplies for the municipal subprojects (US$7.0 million
equivalent);
(d)   100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures for equipment for
the market subproject (US$0.9 million equivalent);
(e)   60% of total expenditures for civil works of the municipal
subprojects up to a disbursement of US$16.0 million equivalent
and 31% of remaining expenditures up to a maximum accumulated
aggregate disbursement of US$23.0 million equivalent;
(f)   Project management costs (incremental salaries) of the municipal
subprojects: (i) 100% up to a maximum accumulated aggregate of
US$0.9 million equivalent; (ii) 60% up to a maximum accumulated
aggregate of US$ 1.0 million equivalent; and (iii) 20% up to a
maximum accumulated aggregate of US$1.1 million equivalent;
(g)   84% of total expenditures for civil works under the market
subproject (US$11.5 million equivalent);
(h)   Front-end fee of US$0.2 million equivalent;
(i)   PPF of US$1 million equivalent;
(j)   Initial deposit into the Special Account for the municipal
subprojects (US$4.5 million equivalent);
(k)   Initial deposit into the Special Account for the market
subproject (US$3.5 million equivalent);



- 23 -
(1)   Interest and other charges during construction of the market
subproject (up to US$2.7 million equivalent accrued through March
1987);
(m)   Unallocated for municipal subprojects (US$6.5 million
equivalent); and
(n)   Unallocated for market subproject (US$2.2 million equivalent).
4.17      Disbursements would be made against standard documentation except
for contracts of local purchases of materials and equipment for which
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure.
Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank,
but would be retained by MLM and EMM4SA for periodic review by Bank staff.
The estimated schedule of disbursements, shown in Annex 4, is based on the
anticipated investment schedule, allowing a six-month lag for the
processing of withdrawal applications. The period of disbursements would
be 7-1/2 years. The loan closing date would be December 31, 1991.
4.18      The proposed 7-1/2-year disbursement period is slightly shorter
than the average historical profiles for projects in Peru (9 years) and
urban projects in the region (8 years). The 7-1/2-year period is, however,
considered realistic for the following reasons:
(a) The Bank has been involved in the proposed project since 1981
through its two PPF tranches which have helped to prepare the
proposed project and to initiate project implementation;
(b) the proposed project is concentrated in one metropolitan area, and
the great majority of the subproject components (design and
construction) are of a nature which have long been carried out
successfully by Peruvian agencies and design professionals. New,
untried physical actions are not contemplated;
(c) most of the subproject components would be executed under
contracting arrangements;
(d) a significant amount of technical assistance and training would be
provided to ensure that experts in each technical and financial
area were available to assist in project execution; and
(e)   the proposed special accounts and working accounts would avoid
delays in the disbursement of both foreign and local funds.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.19      INVERMET would be responsible for maintaining project accounts
for all components except the market. Accounts for the market would be
prepared by EMMSA.  The accounting systems in both INVERMET and EMMSA have
served reasonably well for the relatively modest level of operations
undertaken to date by these entities, and both have consistently received
unqualified audit reports. Since the operations of INVERMET and EMMSA
would increase both in scale and in complexity, their accounting systems
would be reviewed under the project (paras. 3.23(c) and 3.16(a)). Audit of



- 24 -
project accounts in MLM and EMMSA would be undertaken by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months following the end of each fiscal year. The annual
audit of EMMSA would include a review of the adequacy of the tariff
structure in maintaining the proposed market on a financially viable basis
including operations, maintenance and debt servicing. In addition, MLM
would forward annual accounts on its overall operations to enable the Bank
to review the impact of revenue measures to be implemented during the
project period. The special and working accounts funded by the Bank and by
the Government respectively, as well as the statements of expenditure,
would also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (para. 8.03(j)).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
5.01      The borrower would be the Government of Peru.  The executing
agencies would be MLM for all municipal subprojects and EMMSA for the
wholesale market subproject. Two draft subsidiary agreements between the
borrower and MLM, and the borrower and EMMSA, were presented during
negotiations. Signing of final versions of these agreements would be a
condition for loan effectiveness (para. 8.01(a)). The overall
responsibility for project coordination and control would lie with the
Central Government through CMC, a special commission for this project,
chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce (MEFC) and including representatives from MLM, the Public Credit
Department of MEFC, MTC and the Ministry of Agriculture. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Central Government would
maintain CMC for these functions during the period of project execution
(para. 8.03(k)). Under the coordinating umbrella provided by C0C,
responsibility for execution of the subprojects would be divided between
MLM with respect to the municipal subprojects and EMMSA with respect to the
wholesale market subproject. The details of responsibilities are shown in
Annex 5.
5.02      Responsibility for execution of the four subprojects would be
divided as follows between (a) MLM acting through INVERMET and OMTU for
transport, through ESMLL for solid waste, and through its Oficina
Metropolitana de Catastro (OMC), Direccion General de Rentas (DGR), Oficina
del Plan de Desarrollo Metropolitano (OPDM), and Unidad de Presupuesto (UP)
for urban management; and (b) EMMSA for the wholesale market.  Subproject
directors satisfactory to the Bank have been appointed for the transport
and the market subprojects. The appointment of a subproject director for
the solid waste subproject would be a condition for effectiveness (para.
8.01(b)). Directors would also be named in OMTU and OPDM.
5.03      The office of CMP would have overall responsibility for
coordinating the municipal subprojects, and its head would report to the
Mayor of Lima through the Director Municipal. The most important
activities of CMP would include: (a) determination of necessary corrective
actions and ensuring that such actions were taken; (b) assembly of



- 25 -
documentation into regular coherent progress reports to CMC; and (c)
identification of supervision and monitoring problems arising during
implementation, and their possible solution. A Municipal Subprojects
Coordinator, satisfactory to the Bank, has been appointed. All procurement
activities for the municipal subprojects would be the responsibility of MLM
acting through INVERMET.
5.04      For the urban transport subproject, responsibilities would be
divided as follows: MLM through INVERMET would be responsible for the
design, execution, supervision and monitoring and ex-post evaluation of the
civil works, road maintenance equipment, and technical assistance and
training related to INVERMET. Implementation advisors would be contracted
by MLM through INVERMET. The advisors would be assigned to both INVERMET
(two procurement specialists, a road maintenance specialist and a highway
engineer) and OMTU (for traffic engineering, transport planning and public
transport). Appointments of the implementation advisors for INVERMET would
constitute a condition for disbursement of the municipal subprojects
(para. 8.02). MLM, through OMTU, would be responsible for the execution of
studies, technical assistance and training directed at OMTU, and for
equipment acquisition (excluding road maintenance equipment).  The Guardia
Civil would appoint a project manager to coordinate, with OMTU, the use of
police equipment and the carrying out of the traffic enforcement program.
Also, an agreement would be reached by December 1984 between MLM and the
Guardia Civil which would stipulate that the ownership of police equipment
acquired in this project would remain with MLM and that such equipment
would be used only for traffic control and safety activities in Lima.
These arrangements with the Guardia Civil were confirmed during
negotiations (para. 8.03(1)). A condition for loan effectiveness would be
the establishement of OMTU by MLM, and the finalization of its general
operating guidelines (para. 8.01(c)).
5.05     The approach to road maintenance would be in two stages.  First,
for approximately the first two years of the project, maintenance would
continue to be performed, as at present, by the districts and by NTC.
INVERMET would, therefore, develop a "short-term" plan for improving
maintenance activities and skills by using consultant experts prior to and
in the early months of the project. This approach would allow INVERMET to
begin to resolve the urgent problems of road maintenance both by
implementation of remedial measures and by advising MTC and the districts
on procedures. Second, and in parallel, a maintenance study is proposed
which, when completed, would contain recommended actions for the organiza-
tion of maintenance activities in the metropolitan area (para. 3.11(c)).
5.06      For the solid waste subproject, ESMLL would have responsibility
for planning, design, execution, supervision, and monitoring and ex-post
evaluation.
5.07      For the urban management subproject, four municipal offices -
OMC, DGR, OPDM, and UP - would be responsible for planning, execution,
supervision, and monitoring and ex-post evaluation. OPDM would support,
and work closely with, OMTU in the planning study of the Lima Metropolitan



- 26 -
Area. The policy framework for the study would be set through a Steering
Committee made up of representatives from: MLM; the Ministries of Trans-
port, Economy, Finance and Commerce, Interior and Agriculture; the Province
of Callao; ENATRU (the state-owned bus company) and private bus operators;
thus it would be ensured that all related interests are properly
represented and guidance would be provided to MLM for the preparation of
the Lima development plan. The Steering Committee would be considered as a
"working committee" of CMC and would be ultimately responsible to CMC for
the successful completion of the study. The establishment of this
committee by the Central Government, by December 1984, was agreed during
loan negotiations (para. 8.03(m)).
5.08      MLM is aware of the need to bring community and neighborhood
groups into the process of project implementation so that the entire
project would receive widespread support.  MJM, through CMC, would report
regularly to the Bank on progress with community participation throughout
the period of project execution. Existing mechanisms (especially the
Municipal Coordination Assembly) would be used to disseminate project
information and to receive community input. This reporting arrangement was
confirmed during negotiations (para. 8.03(n)).
5.09      For the wholesale market subproject, EMMSA would be responsible
for design, execution, supervision, and for monitoring and ex-post
evaluation.
B. Status of Project Preparation
5.10      For civil works in the transport subproject, preliminary
engineering designs have been prepared. MLM, through INVERMET, has also
completed the final engineering design for the paving and the road
rehabilitation and deferred maintenance programs for the first year of
project implementation. For the market subproject, preliminary engineering
designs for the whole subproject and final designs covering the first year
of project implementation have been prepared.  EMMSA is presently in the
process of consultant selection for the remaining final design works.
Design criteria have been set for landfills and transfer stations in the
solid waste subproject, and MLM has begun the process of consultant
selection for the final design of these facilities. For all technical
assistance, training and studies, outline terms of reference have been
prepared and, for about half of the total, detailed terms of reference have
been developed.
C. Implementation Schedule
5.11      Project implementation is estimated to take seven years beginning
in mid-1984. The schedule for implementation (physical indicators) of each
subproject component is shown in Annex 6. This schedule has been prepared
consistent with the most efficient use of resources and in accordance with
the necessary coordination of activities.



- 27 -
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12      MLM and EMNSA, through the relevant executing offices under the
guidance of CMC, would undertake monitoring and evaluation programs for the
project. The monitoring programs would identify the physical,
institutional and financial status of the subproject components. The aim
is to identify implementation problems and the extent of deviation from
proposed targets and, thus, to provide the basis for MLM and EMMSA, in
consultation with the Bank, to reduce implementation problems and to update
project costs and schedules. The monitoring would be achieved through the
preparation of quarterly reports, which would detail disbursement progress
and, by comparison with plans, demonstrate physical (Annex 6) and
institutional (Annex 7) progress. Ongoing and ex-post evaluation programs
would be developed to assess the effectiveness of the subprojects in
achieving the type and scale of anticipated benefits and to assess the need
for modifications (Annex 8).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Metropolitan Finances: An Overview
6.01      In recent years, growth in operating revenues has failed to keep
pace with population growth and inflation, and total real per capita
expenditures by MLM have fallen about 30% since 1981. To reverse this
trend and to prepare MLM for future responsibilities, a policy of
strengthening local fiscal authority in order to further reduce MLM's
reliance upon central financial support is vital. MLM and the Government
need to agree on the principles and steps required to implement such a
policy, but, for the near term, it was agreed that it would be necessary
for municipal revenues to increase such that: (a) no financing would be
required from the Central Government for the Municipality's recurrent
expenditures in excess of 1984 transfers, in real terms; and (b) INVERMET's
funds would be sufficient, without any allocations in the Central
Government's budget, to cover any increase in the Municipality's investment
program and the debt service requirements.
B. Action Program
6.02      To meet these objectives, MLM has proposed an extensive review of
revenue administration; consultant advisory services are being contracted
to establish a fiscal cadaster and help to implement betterment taxation.
The property tax currently generates about US$1.50 per capita per year and
finances about 20% of the total annual operating budget of MLM. This is
significantly less than for most cities which administer a property tax.
The existing cadaster is incomplete and reflects only a small portion of
the considerable development which has taken place in the Metropolitan Area
over the last decade. Moreover, because of the present system of
self-assessment and ineffective followup, the existing cadaster is
seriously undervalued, and evasion is pervasive. Significant additional
revenues should therefore accrue from an expanded cadaster and from
administrative improvements in billing and enforcement. At existing
budgetary levels, the potential for important financial savings is
limited. Personnel costs now represent about 55% of recurrent expenditures
as compared to 80% in 1981. However, staff productivity is low. Technical



- 28 -
assistance included in the project would help MLM to identify measures to
strengthen financial planning and budgetary control in order to ensure that
additional revenues could be earmarked for expansion and upgrading of
services. The consolidated metropolitan budget is summarized in Annex 9.
6.03      Solid waste management is administered by ESMLL and by individual
districts (para. 2.10). Because basic corporate systems, including
accounting and financial reporting, are not yet established, and because of
the modest size of the solid waste subproject, a full institutional
financial analysis has not been undertaken. Service charges for solid
waste management are based on property values, but, in a number of
districts, are collected as a surcharge on electricity tariffs. Some
improvement has taken place in recovery of service costs in recent years.
In 1981, service charges for solid waste management represented 15% of
total revenues and financed about 27% of estimated service costs. For
1983, solid waste revenues represented about 31% of total revenues for the
Metropolitan Area. However, service standards and efficiencies vary widely
among districts, as do operating deficits. Following the review of service
financing included in the proposed project, further improvements are
anticipated to bring charges more directly in line with service costs.
These would be determined on the basis of improved service costing systems
to be installed in ESMLL and the districts through the project. Assurances
were received at negotiations that a review of the financial performance of
ESMLL and of solid waste activities of all districts would be completed and
presented to the Bank by December 1984, that recommendations and a
timetable for strengthening the operational efficiency and self-financing
capacity of ESMLL would be presented to the Bank for review by December
1985, and that they would be carried out (para. 8.03(o)). The review of
service financing would cover operating cost structures, investment
requirements and capacity to service debt; the extent of cost recovery and
proposed tariff structures, taking account of cross subsidies and
affordabilities; budgetary support; financial planning, budgeting, internal
control and auditing. MLM confirmed at negotiations that, in the interim,
service charges in 17 districts, which are levied with electricity tariffs,
have recently been increased by 25%.  Also, collection charges by MLM to
the separate city districts for use of the existing solid waste transfer
station would be enforced more strongly. In order to demonstrate that
ESMLL and the districts have adequate funds for project implementation
pending completion of this review, agreement was reached at negotiations
that MLM would submit to the Bank for review, by March 30 of each year,
draft solid waste budgets for ESMLL and for each district for that year
which demonstrate that service charges are increasingly capable of
recovering at least recurrent service costs (para. 8.03(o)). In addition,
assurances were received at negotiations that no additional investment in
excess of US$200,000 equivalent in any one fiscal year would be undertaken
during the project implementation period by ESMLL without prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 8.03(o)).
6.04      Finally, MLM would prepare, jointly with the Government, an
assessment of measures to improve municipal financial autonomy, and would
present it to the Bank for review and comment by December 1984. A plan of
action and a consolidated timetable for achieving financial autonomy would
be formulated, endorsed by the Government, and presented to the Bank by
December 1985, and MLM would carry out this plan of action. These
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (para. 8.03(p)). Several



- 29 -
actions are already under way and oriented toward maximizing management of
resources currently available to MLM, primarily through administrative
improvements in billing and collection procedures of principal local
taxes. In addition, efforts to collect delinquent taxes are also expected
to result in increases in property tax receipts. Significant increases are
also planned in the rental fees for retail markets and in parking charges
and street vendors fees. It is also proposed to eliminate some exemptions
from the tax on unoccupied land.
C. Fondo Metropolitano de Inversiones (INVERMET)
6.05      Established in 1979 as a trust fund of MLM to finance urban
infrastructure improvements, INVERMET has, to date, been financed primarily
by transfers of national gasoline tax revenues. Comparative financial
statements for 1981 and 1982 (Annex 10) illustrate that INVERMET's finances
have been characterized by a high degree of liquidity and substantial
investments in short-term financial assets. As its contracting capacity
increased, its financial assets were reduced, as a proportion of total
investments, from over 80% in 1980 to about 23% in 1982. INVERMET's
receipts of gasoline taxes reached about US$7.0 million p.a. in 1982. The
assumption of modest increases in gasoline consumption, and of stable
international gasoline prices, provides the basis for the projected revenue
flows for INVERMET illustrated in Annex 11. These establish INVERMET's
capacity to provide the counterpart funding required under the project and
to support a modest program of additional capital investments.
D.  Empresa de Mercados Mayoristas S.A. (EMMSA)
(i)   Financial Performance on Existing Operations
6.06      Established in 1979 under the Ministry of Agriculture to foster
the development of wholesale markets throughout Peru, EMMSA's activities as
a market operator have been concentrated in Lima although it has not owned
facilities. Comparative income statements and balance sheets for the
financial years 1981 and 1982 are shown in Annex 12. Although operating
revenues increased rapidly during the first three years of operations,
increasing operating costs resulted in narrow operating margins of 2.4% in
1981 and 0.5% in 1982.
6.07      No significant change is foreseen in EMMSA's financial
performance prior to the opening of the new market at the end of 1986.
EMMSA would not be able to raise concession charges to market users before
the new market opens because they are bound by current contracts. These
charges were quadrupled in recent years; however, increases in other
charges are not anticipated in view of the poor condition of the
facilities. Monitoring would therefore concentrate on ensuring that EMMSA
would continue at least to break even, so that, when existing operations
close down, all liabilities can be fully discharged.  EMMSA would therefore
be unable, except for the possible sale or lease of the surplus land
(para. 4.09), to provide counterpart cash flows to meet project capital
outlays or interest during construction (Annex 13), which must therefore be
financed from other sources (paras. 4.07 and 4.09). Ownership of new
facilities would be vested with EMMSA.



- 30 -
(ii) Proposed Market
6.08       The projected revenue statements, cash flows and balance sheets
(Annex 13) refer to EMMSA's operations as a whole and demonstrate its
financial viability. Since the new market would dominate EMMSA's
operations through the late 1980s, financial forecasts for the new market
alone would not be significantly different, and have therefore not been
prepared.
6.09       The pricing policy under which tariffs would be increased by up
to 115% in real terms by 1989 has been designed to ensure that there are
adequate resources to service the very large loan financing on this
subproject. Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that EMMSA
would not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of estimated net
revenue would be at least 1.1 times the estimated debt service requirements
for the current fiscal year. In addition, and in order to ensure economic
efficiency in the operation of the market, agreement was also reached at
negotiations that EIMMSA would earn an annual return of not less than 8% on
average current net value of EMMSA's fixed assets in operation by 1989 and,
for each subsequent fiscal year, a return of not less than 12%. To this
end, EMMSA would charge tariffs which would provide a 6% return from
opening of the market for the first two years of market operations.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MLM, in coordination with
EIMSA, would close the existing markets for wholesale market activities by
December 1986 and that MLM would present to the Bank, for review and
comments, its plans for the use of the existing markets by October 1985
(para. 8.03(q)).
6.10       Although periodic rehabilitation of on-site roads and parking
areas of the new market would not be required until the mid-1990s, adequate
financial provision should be made well before then. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that, by December 1987, EMMSA would determine the required
expenditures on major periodic maintenance for the new market up to the
year 2000 and, commencing in January 1988, establish a reserve fund
financed by annual contributions, which, together with interest
accumulating at current domestic interest rates, would be adequate to
finance projected expenditures on the basis of annual reassessments (para.
8.03(q)). Projections indicate that a further additional tariff increase
of 20% would be required in 1990, when repayment of principal on the Bank
loan falls due, in order to sustain these requirements.
6.11       Because of the sensitivity of EMM(;A's projected financial
performance to debt-servicing obligations, agreement was obtained at
negotiations that EMMSA would not undertake additional capital investments
in excess of US$1 million without prior consultation with the Bank during
the period of project execution (para. 8.03(q)).
(iii) Financial Management
6.12       In view of the considerable increase in EMMSA's present operating
budget represented by the market and the need to maintain sound financial
performance, it will be particularly important to maintain effective
management accounting systems. To enable EMMSA to deal fully with the
increased complexity of financial decisions during project implementation



- 31 -
and to give prominence to financial policies during operation, a suitably
qualified financial executive would be appointed by March 1985. This
appointment was confirmed during negotiations (para. 8.03(q)).
6.13      Cost Recovery.  All investment costs, including land at its
current value, would be recovered through service charges.
6.14      Affordability.  An analysis of the present cost structure of
wholesalers and retailers indicates that considerably lower operating costs
would result at the new market, primarily from reduced security expenses,
porterage, and significantly reduced wastage and losses. The out-of-pocket
savings of truckers resulting from reduced waiting times are expected to
cover about 75% of increased toll charges. However, the difference could
easily be absorbed by the wholesalers/retailers if passed on to them.
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Economic Justification
7.01      Considerable effort has been made to keep the size of the project
to a minimum. During preappraisal, the Government and Bank staff agreed to
reduce the level of project costs by more than US$100 million through (a)
rigorous economic analysis of alternatives; (b) reduction in design
standards to minimum necessary levels; and (c) leaving, to the extent
possible, investments in commercial facilities within the market to the
private sector and the financing of buses to suppliers.
7.02      The project would have a substantial influence upon the
efficiency of Lima's economy in two ways: first, an improvement in urban
infrastructure and in public services; and second, an impact on the
metropolitan and, hence, on the national economy through improved
metropolitan planning and coordination.
7.03      Where feasible, cost-benefit analysis was used to evaluate the
subproject components, and 78% of project costs were thus covered. Key
assumptions used in the economic analysis are provided in Annex 14.
7.04      All transport subproject components gave benefits in terms of
higher travel speeds, which yielded savings in vehicle operating costs and
passenger time. In the Cono Norte scheme, accident savings were also
considered. Since nearly all the quantifiable benefits of the transport
schemes depended on higher travel speeds, detailed measurements were made
of existing traffic speeds and of derived speed-flow curves on the basis of
field surveys. The influence of road surface conditions on the speed-flow
characteristics of different classes of roads was particularly emphasized.
7.05      The solid waste transfer stations and vehicles would reduce
transport costs by transferring loads from small collection trucks to large
trucks at strategic points so that long hauls to landfills or dumps could
be made as cheaply as possible. Since the transfer stations would meet
only part of the city's need for more transfer capacity, they would be used
only by those collection vehicles which offered the greatest savings.



- 32 -
7.06      The evaluation of the market project required, first,
consideration of alternative solutions to the proposed market at Santa
Anita and, second, an evaluation of the Santa Anita proposal against the
"without project" alternative.
7.07      The analysis showed that the location of Santa Anita for the new
market was justified. In the long term, however, there could be a case for
developing a second, and possibly a third, market, rather than expanding
Santa Anita, in order to save transport costs and to reduce market-
generated traffic.
7.08      The benefits of the market at Santa Anita arise from the release
of the valuable site at La Victoria, lower handling costs and reduced
wastage and from savings in waiting time by suppliers and retailers.
7.09      As shown in Annex 15, all subproject components which can be
quantified are strongly justified. The overall rate of return is about
70%, which demonstrates the highly cost-effective nature of the proposed
project investments. Furthermore, the nature of some of the benefits,
i.e., reduced fuel usage and reduced operating costs, should have a direct
and favorable effect on Peru's balance of payments.
7.10      Four sensitivity tests were made, the results of which are shown
in Annex 16. In one test, shadow pricing was introduced. Three other
tests were made to reflect investment risks. First, the possible
construction of a mass transit line along the Cono Norte-Cono Sur Corridor
was roughly simulated. Second, all subproject components were subjected to
a delay of one year during construction. Third, a delay of three years
during construction and an associated increase of 25% in capital costs were
postulated. In no case did the IRR fall below 23%. It was therefore
concluded that all the subproject components were robust in their economic
justification.
B. Distribution of Project Benefits
7.11      About 54% of the population of the Lima Metropolitan Region is
absolutely poor (earning less than US$167 per month in 1981 prices) and 62%
is relatively poor (with US$225 per month). The levels of poverty have
been calculated by zone in order to assess the impact of the project.
7.12      The heaviest concentrations of the poor are in the Cono Norte and
Cono Sur; many others live near the city center or work there. The
proposed transport subproject which would be confined to bus routes would
be largely located in these areas. The road paving program would be
confined to low income areas. The road rehabilitation and maintenance
programs would help buses on many routes but would obviously be of benefit
to other traffic also. The area traffic control system covers the inner
and central area, which is the focus of the bus network and the main source
of employment for the poor.



- 33 -
7.13      Through the provision of maintenance equipment, transfer and
landfill systems, as well as improved management procedures, in the solid
waste subproject, the efficiency and effectiveness of vehicle and labor
resources are expected to be markedly improved, thereby allowing services
to be extended, especially in the poor districts where present standards
are very low. The market subproject should eliminate a severe
environmental and social problem in the poor central district of La
Victoria and should lead to cheaper and better food for the whole
population.
7.14      The poverty indices, representing the percentages of project
costs and benefits attributable to the poor, are shown in Annex 17. About
56% of project costs (excluding those items that could not be evaluated)
and 53% of the benefits are attributed to the relatively poor. The market
would benefit some two-thirds of the low-income population of the
Metropolitan Area.
C. Environmental Impact
7.15      Although environmental improvement is not its prime objective,
this project would have an important impact on the environment.   Lima is
currently an unusually dirty city because of very inadequate street
cleaning and refuse collection. The solid waste subproject would produce
an important improvement in the environment, and the market subproject
would eliminate one of the worst environmental problems in the city by
removing all wholesale market facilities and associated traffic from a
densely populated residential area.
7.16      The paving of roads in pueblos jovenes would immediately change
their appearance and improve their cleanliness. All of the subproject com-
ponents should have beneficial effects upon health. The other transport
components - dealing with Cono Norte, Cono Sur and Alfonso Ugarte - should
bring better order and less congestion to these parts of the city, and the
road rehabilitation program should make it easier to keep the streets
clean.
D. Project Risks
7.17      There are four potential risks associated with the project:
difficulty in generating local counterpart funds; difficulty in recruiting
and maintaining adequate professional staff; problems associated with the
bilateral nature (Central Government and MLM) of the project; and possible
implementation delays. The project content and institutional arrangements
have been designed to reduce these risks to the lowest possible level.
Local funding is based heavily on an earmarked source (gas tax revenues
from INVERMET) and depends on general revenues from the Central Government
only to a very limited extent (US$19.4 million over 7-1/2 years). Bank
loan disbursements have been front-loaded to minimize possible financing
required from Central Government during the initial years of implementation
when counterpart resource constraints would continue to be severe. The
risk related to adequate staff has been mitigated by assigning loan
proceeds to finance a substantial amount of technical assistance and
training. For the largest subproject, transport, the contracting of expert
advisors would ensure adequate technical support, even if local staff were
not to develop as rapidly as expected.



- 34 -
7.18      The bilateral nature of project responsibility is advantageous in
meeting the key institutional objective of strengthening the Municipal
Government. Risks have been minimized by the establishment of CMC as the
overall coordinating body. Finally, by minimizing these risks, and by
concentrating on physical projects of a relatively simple nature, the
proposed implementation schedule of seven years should be readily
achievable.
VIII. AGREEEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION 1/
8.01      The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a)   Signing of two subsidiary agreements between the borrower and MLM
and the borrower and EMMSA (SAR para. 5.01 and Section 6.01(a)
and (b) of LA);
(b)   Appointment of a subproject director for the solid waste
subproject (SAR para. 5.02 and Section 6.01(d) of LA); and
(c)   Establishment of OMTU, and the finalization of its general
operating guidelines (SAR para. 5.04 and Section 6.01(c) of LA).
8.02      The following would be a condition for disbursement of the
municipal subprojects:
Appointment of INVERMET implementation advisors (SAR para. 5.04
and Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of LA).
8.03      The following assurances were obtained and agreements reached
during negotiations:
(a)   The Government and MLM to inform the Bank of any proposal to
undertake transport investments in the Lima Metropolitan area in
excess of US$10 million during the project implementation period;
provide information on the impact of such investment on the Bank
project; and give the Bank an adequate opportunity to comment on
the proposed investment; and the Government to agree not to
execute any transport investment that would adversely affect the
urban transport subproject (SAR para. 2.24 and Sections 4.02 and
5.01(g) of LA);
(b)   Proposed road maintenance program, covering its institutional
framework, budget requirements and proposed financing, to be
presented by MLM for review and comment by December 1985 (SAR
para. 3.11(c) and Section 2.08(a) of MLM PA);
1/ References are to the relevant sections of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the Draft Loan Agreement (LA), the MLI Draft Project Agreement
(MLM PA), and the EMMSA Draft Project Agreement (EMMSA PA).



- 35 -
(c)  MYLM to obtain the ownership of the land for new transfer station
by December 1984 (SAR para. 3.19 and Section 2.10 of M1M PA);
(d)   Proceeds of the Bank loan related to municipal subprojects to be
passed on to MLM as a grant and proceeds of the Bank loan related
to the market to be onlent by the Central Government to EMMSA at
the Bank's interest rate repayable in 17 years with six years
grace (SAR para. 4.08 and Section 3.01(b) and (c) of LA);
(e)   MLM to contr Loute, from INVER21ET funds, duriig the years 1984 to
1990, toward the municipal subprojects, up to US$4.0 million
equivalent per year to a total of US$20.2 million, and the
Central Government to finance the remainder. In addition, if the
suppliers credits are not forthcoming and if EMMSA is unable to
provide counterpart financing, the Central Government would also
provide financing in the amounts required (SAR paras. 4.09 and
4.10 and Sections 3.01(a) and (b) of LA, Section 2.01(a) of MLM
PA and Section 2.01(a) of EMMSA PA);
(f)   Two Special Accounts, one for the municipal and one for the
market subprojects, together with the working accounts, to be
established and the Bank initial deposits in these special
accounts not to be made until MLM's and EMMSA's advances in the
working accounts were made (SAR para. 4.11 and Section 2.02(d)
and (e) and Schedule 5 of LA, Section 2.01(b) of MLM PA and
Section 2.01(c) of EMMSA PA);
(g)   Up to US$35.7 million in small civil works contracts and up to
US$2.6 million in small equipment contracts to be procured
through local competitive bidding and up to US$500,000 through
local purchase.  All consultants to be financed under the loan to
be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.  (SAR paras. 4.12, Schedule 4,
C of LA and Sections 2.02 of MLM and EMMSA PA);
(h)   Bank review and approval to be required for the final design of
specified subproject components (SAR para. 4.14, Section 2.08(b)
MLM PA and Section 2.09 of EMMSA PA);
(i)   Up to US$1.1 million, to cover final design, technical assistance
and some equipment expenses incurred during 1984, to be financed
retroactively (SAR para. 4.15 and Schedule 1, 4(a) of LA);
(j)   M1M, INVERMET and EMMSA to maintain appropriate accounting
systems and submit yearly external audits to the Bank no later
than six months following the end of each fiscal year. The
special and working accounts and statements of expenditure would
also be audited. All auditors would have to be acceptable to the
Bank (SAR para. 4.19, Section 4.03 of LA, Sections 2.05, 4.01 and
4.02 of MLM PA and Sections 2.05, 4.01 and 4.02 of EMMSA PA);
(k)   The Central Government to maintain CMC for overall project
coordination and control during the period of project execution
(SAR para. 5.01 and Section 3.01(e) of LA);



- 36 -
(1)   Guardia Civil to appoint a project manager, and the equipment to
remain in the ownership of MLM and be used only for control of
traffic and safety activities in Lima (SAR para. 5.04 and
Section 2.11 of MLM PA);
(m)   Formation of a Steering Committee by December 1984 including
representation from the Province of Callao to provide guidance to
MLM for the preparation of the Lima development plan (SAR para.
5.07 and Section 3.02 of LA);
(n)   MLM, through CMC, to report to the Bank on a regular basis
concerning community involvement in project implementation
(SAR para. 5.08 and Section 2.05(b) of MLM PA);
(o)   MLM to prepare (i) review of financial performance of ESMLL and
solid waste activities of municipal districts and present to the
Bank by December 1984; and (ii) recommendations and timetable for
strengthening ESMLL's operational efficiency and self-financing
capacity by December 1985 and that they would be carried out; MLM
to present to the Bank, for review, the investment program
including solid waste budgets for ESMLL and for each district by
March 30 of each year which demonstrate that service charges are
increasingly capable of recovering at least recurrent service
costs; and ESMLL not to undertake additional investments during
project implementation period in excess of US$200,000 in anyone
fiscal year without prior consultation with the Bank (SAR para.
6.03 and Sections 2.08(d) and (e) and 2.09 and Section 4.03(a) of
MLN PA);
(p)   MLI to prepare an assessment of measures proposed to improve
municipal financial autonomy and furnish it to the Bank by
December 1984 as well as a plan of action and timetable to
achieve financial autonomy, endorsed by the Govenment, furnished
to the Bank by December 1985 and MLM to carry out this plan of
action (SAR para. 6.04 and Sections 2.08(f) and 2.09 of MLM PA)
and MLM to undertake a review of the existing financial planning
and management system and furnish the results to the Bank by
December 1986 (SAR para. 3.23(c) and Section 2.08(g) of MLM PA);
(q)   (i) EMMSA not to incur any debt unless a resonable forecast of
estimated net revenues would be at least 1.1 times the estimated
debt service requirements for the current fiscal year and to earn
an annual return of not less than 8% on average current net value
of EMMSA's fixed assets in operation by 1989 and for each
subsequent fiscal year a return of not less than 12% (SAR para.
6.09 and Sections 4.03(a) and 4.06 of EMMSA PA); (ii) MLM, in
coordination with EMMSA, to close the existing markets for
wholesale market activitiez by December 1986 (SAR para. 6.09,
Section 2.12 of MLM PA and 2.10 of EMMSA PA); (iii) MLM to
present to the Bank for review and comment, by October 1985, its
plans for the use of the existing markets (SAR para. 6.09 and
Sections 2.08(c) of MLM PA); (iv) EMMSA to present to the Bank,



- 37 -
for review and comment, the estimates of required major periodic
maintenance expenditures, particularly for on-site roads and
parking at the new market, up to the year 2000, by December 1987
and, commencing in January 1988, to establish a reserve fund (SAR
para. 6.10 and Section 4.04 of EMMSA PA); (v) EMMSA not to
undertake additional capital investments in excess of US$1
million equivalent without prior consultation with the Bank (SAR
para. 6.11 and Section 4.05 of EMMSA PA); and (vi) EMMSA to hire,
by March 1985, a suitably qualified financial executive (SAR
para. 6.12 and Section 2.01(b) (ii) of EMMSA PA).
8.04      Siubject to the above, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$82.5 million.
May 29, 1984






_ 38 -
AN1Ex I
Organization Chart of the Municipality of Metropolitan Limo
r#-I--_7C    f S                                                                                    7=7
~   -  C~-~                                                                                           C~C3                                                     _                         _                    CCC                       CC'-1C'f
| ; | < t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WC  .CfC,.-CC,I|






- 39 -                                                         A X2
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(Us$'0OO)
1984              1985              1986              1987              1988              1989              1990           !Q1Q
SEM I   SEM 2   SEM i    SEM 2           SEf 1     SE    M i SEH I    SE   M 2    sEn I   SEM 2   SEM 1   SEMI    SEM 1   SEMI    SEM 1   TOTAL   .OR       FHR
SUBPROJECT COMPONENT'
URBAN TRANSPORT
DESIGN                          241      42?       139     360       196        0        0        0        6       80      107        0        0        0        0    1556       77B       5n
SUPERVISION                        0       59      110      111      284      508      469      341      17-7    107        78       96      166      118         0    2634    1317        50
CIVIL S ORKS                       0    13P3    2075    1074    4239    7155    6566    6136    3498              -70    1329      1568    2800    3011        578   43208   20840         48
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             0     2?1      349       382      ?08    1149    1055        972      552      159      227      250      445      469       97    7074    3412         42
TECH. ASSISTANCE                243      780      118B     1210      501      328      328      306      306      306       98       90       98      170      168    6120    4590         75
EQUIPMENT                          0      123      946    1328         0    2508       450      450      400      510        0        0        I        9         0    6715    044        90
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                0       45     255       516      873    2237    2084    2347    1679          817      848    1032    1967    2284         545   17528    9815         56
TOTAL                  484    3023    5061    5981    6801   13885   10952   10551             6618    2848    2687    3035    5476    6052    1378   84834   46796               55
P.P+F.                         1ooo                                                                                                                           1000    1000       100
TOTAL-U.T.             484    4023    5061    5981    6801    13885   10952   10551    6618    2848    2687    3035    5476    6052    1378   85834   A7796
MARKET
DESIGN                          266      508                                                                                                                            774      387       5;0
:.u"REi 5Psl                                      178      176      294      206                                                                                        854      427       50
CML WORKS                                        3051     6279    4664    1544                                                                                        15538    7155        46
WORKING CAPITAL                                                      172                                                                                                 172       0        0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             0       76     484       968      726      245        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0    2500    1157        46
SUB-TOTAL              266      584    3713    7423    5856    1995             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0   19838    9126         46
STUDIES                                  133      266       133                                                                                                         532      399       75
EQUIP, I MATERIALS                                         345       690                                                                                               1035      932       90
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                0       14      189     680      831       328        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0    2042    1123        55
LAND                           5800                                                                                                                                    5800        0        0
TOTAL                 6066      732    4168    8581    ?377    2323             0        0 0               0        0        0        0        0        0   29247   11579
SOLID WASTE
DESIGN                             0        0       60        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        3        0       60       30       50
SUPERVISION                                                  28       32                                                                                                 60       30       50
CIVIL WORKS                                                 640     644                                                                                                1284      642       50
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             0        0        9     IO0       101        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      211      105       50
SUB-TOTAL                0         0       69     768       777        0        0        0        O        0        0        0        0        0        0    1615       807       50
EQUIPMENT                               2562    2562                                                                                                                   5124    4612        90
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            361      352      352       352     352       352      352      352                                                                    2825    2119        75
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                0       44      158      106      166       68       83      101        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      725      522       72
TOTAL                  361    2958    3141       1226    12?6        420      435      453        0        0        0        0        0        0        0   10289    0060
URBAN MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     276    1140    1140    1063          932      186      150      114       75       36                                         5112    3578        70
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                0        4       60      108      157      179       44       43       39       30       17        0        0        0        0      680      476       70
TOTAL                     0     280    1200    1248    1220    1111           230      193      153      05       53        0        0        0        0    5792    405t
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
INCREMENTAL STAFF                         62      120      120      120      120      120       120      120      120      120       84       74                       1300      650       50
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                0        1        6       11       18       23       28       34       41       48       55       43       41        0        0      351      175       50
TOTAL                     0      63      126      131      138       143      148      154      161      168      175      127      115        0        0    1651       825
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          6911    8056   13698   17167   16831   17882   11765   11351    6932    3122    2915    3163    5591    6052    1378  132812   72315                        54
INTEREST ON CONSTRUCTION
-BANK                           74      400      430      800      951                                                                                       2655    2655       100
-OTHER                                   25       46       82        82                                                                                       235        0        0
FRONT END FEE                            206                                                                                                                            206      206      100
TOTAL FINANCING REGD.        6911    8336   14123   17643   17713   18915   11765   11351    6932    3122    2915    3163    5591    6052    1378  135908   ?5176                        55
MEMORANDUMH:
BASE COSTS            6911    7601   12187   14296   13251   13653    8471    7855    4621    2060               1768    1838    3138    3299         746  101703   55529         55
PHYSICAL CONTING          0     347      842    1450    1535    1394    1055           972      552      159      227      250      445      469       87    9784    4674         48
PRICE CONTING,            0      108     669    1421    2045    2835    2239    2524    1759             895      920    1075    2008    2284         545   21326   12112         57



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project Element          ICB     LCB      Other      N.A.       Total
Cost
Civil Works               49.5    35.7                           85.2
(27.2)  (17.4)                         (44.6)
Equipment                 11.8      2.6                          14.4
( 6.8)  ( 2.2)                         ( 9.0)
Consultant Services       15.6      6.3    2.6                    24.5
. (15.6)  ( 6.3)  (1.4)                  (23.3)
Other:
11.8
Project Management                                            ( 5.6)
1.7
(1.7)
Interest During Construction,                        4.1
P.P.F and Front-end-fee                            ( 3.9)
Land                                                 5.8
( 0.0)
Working Capital                                      0.2
( 0.0)
Totals                    76.9    44.6    2.6         11.8      135.9
(49.6)  (25.9)  (1.4)      ( 5.6)      (82.5)
NOTE:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
INCREMENT        CUMULATIVE      CUMULATIVE
SEMESTER ENDING                       VALUE             VALUE             %
Dec. 31,  1984                       10.3*              10.3            12
June 30,  1985                        6.4               16.7            20
Dec. 31,  1985                       12.3              29.0             35
June 30,  1986                       14.8              43.8             53
Dec. 31,  1986                       13.6              57.4             70
June 30,  1987                        8.9**             66.3           80
Dec. 31,  1987                        4.2**            70.5            85
June 30,  1988                        3.3**             73.8            89
Dec. 31,  1988                        2.0**            75.8            92
June 30,  1989                        1.0**             76.8            93
Dec. 31,  1989                        1.0**            77.8            94
June 30,  1990                        1.0**             78.8            96
Dec. 31,  1990                        1.6**            80.4             97
June 30,  1991                        1.7**            82.1             99
Dec. 31,  1991                        0.4**            82.5            100
*   This represents establishment of special account to cover highest
quarter of expenditures plus first semester transfers and retroactive
financing.
** Only 76% of qualified expenditures are being reimbursed during last
ten semesters to facilitate recovery of special account deposits.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of the Management System
1.        For each subproject, a series of steps must be taken to bring
each of its components from functional and final design (or final terms of
reference for technical assistance, training, studies) through monitoring
and evaluation. The steps, and their associated responsibilities, are
identified below.
Overall
Preparation of Progress Reports
2.        CMP and EMMSA would prepare comprehensive and concise quarterly
progress reports. CMC would review and approve the reports and would
submit them to the Bank.
Market Subproject
3.        EMMSA would be responsible for all activities.  These include:
Step I - Procurement of works, equipment, technical assistance (including
consultant services for design and supervision), training and
studies.
Step 2 - Execution and Supervision.
Step 3 - Monitoring and Ongoing Evaluation.
Step 4 -  Ex-Post Evaluation.
4.        Step 1 includes elaboration of terms of reference (TOR) and
requests for proposals and bid documents, advertisement, receipt of
proposals or bids, evaluation of the proposals or bids, contract award,
progress payments, and final approval of work.
5.        Step 2 includes the design of works, the execution and
supervision of works, equipment acquisition, technical assistance,
training, and studies. This work includes verifying that TOR and
specifications are being complied with, preparing quarterly progress
reports, and ensuring that all contracted activities are being performed
within budget and are on schedule.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        Step 3 includes monitoring the physical, institutional and
financial progress of the subproject with the aim of identifying
implementation problems and updating costs, schedules and targets as
necessary. This would be achieved by comparing actual against planned
performance as demonstrated by key indicators. The indicators to be
employed are:
Key indicators to demonstrate physical progress;
Key indicators to demonstrate institutional development.
This step also includes ongoing evaluation to provide data to identify any
design or operations amendments which may be necessary.
7.        Step 4, Ex-Post Evaluation, would draw on the data collected by
the ongoing evaluation to confirm the level of benefits achieved. The
indicators to be used to meet these requirements are:
Key Evaluation Indicators.
Solid Waste Subproject
8.        ESMLL would be the executing office and INVERMET would handle
procurement.
9.        In Step 1 above (para. 3), ESMLL would be responsible for
elaboration of TORs. INVERMET would be responsible for resquests for
proposals, elaboration of bid documents, advertisement, receipt of
proposals or bids, evaluation of the bids, contract award, progress
payments, and final approval of the work (with participation of ESMLL and
CMC).
10.       For Steps 2, 3 and 4 above (para. 3), ESNLL would be responsible.
Urban Management Subproject
11.       OMC, DGR, OPDM and UP would be the executing offices and INVERMET
would handle procurement.
12.       In Step 1 above (para. 3), OMC, DGR, OPDM and UP would be
responsible for elaboration of TORs. INVERMET would be responsible for
request for porposals, elaboration of bid documents, advertisement, receipt
of proposals or bids, evaluation of the bids, contract award, progress
payments, and final approval of the work (with participation of OMC, DGR,
OPDM, UP and CMC).
13.       For steps 2, 3, and 4 above (para. 3), CMP would be responsible.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Transport Subproject
14.       INVERMET and OMTU would each be the executing offices with OMTU
responsible for all studies (except for the road maintenance study),
training, equipment acquisition (except for road maintenance equipment) and
technical assistance for OMTU. INVERMET would be responsible for technical
assistance to INVERMET, civil works, and for the road maintenance study and
acquisition of road maintenance equipment. INVERMET would handle all
procurement.
15.       In Step 1 above (para. 3), OMTU would be responsible for
elaboration of TORs for all studies (except for the road maintenance
study), training, equipment acquisition (except for road maintenance
equipment) and technical assistance for OMTU, while INVERMET would be
responsible for technical assistance to INVERMET, civil works, and for the
road maintenance study and acquisition of road maintenance equipment.
INVERMET would also be responsible for request for proposals, elaboration
of all bid documents, advertisement, receipt of proposals or bids,
evaluation of the bids, contract award, progress payments and final
approval of the work (with participation of OMTU in the four
above-mentioned areas, and of CMC in all eight areas).
16.       For Steps 2 and 3 above (para. 3), OMTU would be responsible for
studies, training, equipment acquisition, (except for road maintenance) and
technical assistance for OMTU. INVERMET would be responsible for technical
assistance to INVERMET, for works and for the street maintenance study and
acquisition of road maintenance equipment.
17.       For Step 4 above (para. 3), OMTU would be responsible, except
that INVERMET would be responsible for Ex-Post Evaluation of civil works
and the road maintenance equipment.
18.       The procurement arrangements as summarized in Section D of
Chapter IV would be followed by EM[SA and INVERMET.



- 45 
PMR                                                                                           tAN= 6
LIM M  TAT3N  SlMEPR
PBYfSICiL INODICA3tBS
Qaanti-         1984                  1985                    1986                   1987                  19B8                  1989                    1990             1991
ty       1          II           I         II           I          II          I         II          I         II           I         II           I          II         I
Conw Norte
Av. Tupac Anrtu/Caqueta    7.0 km               Begin                Caiplete    Bidding      Begin       50%          75%       100%
Deeign               Dasigp                Ccratruct. Caoplete   Corplete   Corplete
Av. Panamericana Norte      7.5 km                                                                                                          Begin    Complete   Bidding       25%        75%        100%
Dign   Deaign                   Complete   Complete    Complete
Av. T. Msano                5.3 km              Begin      Ceplete   Bidding       Begin       50X          75%       100%
Design     Design               Ccnstruct. Caeplete  Cacplete  Complete
Av. Pachacutec              3.3 km                                                                                             Begin        Design   Bidding     Begin         60%      100%
Design     Complete             Construct. Ccrplete   Corplete
Central Area
Av. A.Ugarte/Dof   de Mayo   2.5 km                                    Begin     Creplete                Begin         50%        75%       100%
103 in-                                      Dign    Design    Bidoing    Cornstruct. Conplete   Complete   Coaplete
Area Traffic Con,trol     tersecti8.                                  Bidding      Begin      Begin      60%          100X        20%        50%        75%       100%        System
Final Dea. Coostruct. Civil Wonk Civil Wonk  Sigpals    Signals    Signals   Signals   Acceptance
Traffic Management                                                     Begin     Biddinrg      100%
Design   Begin Cons. Crplete
lIncame Area  Pasvig        100.0 km  Begin      Bidding/   20 km        40 km       60 km      80 km      100km
Design    Begin Cns.
Road Behahilitation and      50.0 km  Deaign     Bidding/ |  3 km         5 km        9 km      12hm        15 km      20 km      25km        30 km      35 km      40 km       43 km      47km        50 km
Maintenance                        Cawilete   Begin Can.
Techniral Assistarc
Gflj and INEYMM           408 m.m              17 n.m       34  34 n    4  34     4 n.m    34 m.m    34 m.m          34 n.m     34 m.m    34 m.m       34 n.m    34 m.n       17 m.m     17 m.m    17 m.m
Guardis Civil               24 m.n Final TCR    2 m.m       10n.n       6  .n       6 m.m
Training                           To be       on key    es establi6bed whe   s hedile is  inalized
Studies
Maintenance                 60 m.m                          50%       100%
Caqplete   Craplete
Central Area               103 m.m            InDestigs- Fist Draft 100%
tion Comp. Ccaplete    Caoplete
fouipment
Police, Municipal Agenc.                       Bidding      50%       100%
Maintenance                                                                       Bidding      100%
Manket
WonsN/Eqsipent                      Site Dea. Begin Site Wonks 46%  Wonks 81%  Wonka 100%
Croplte Work Bldg. Corplete   Complete   Complete
Tednical Assistant         12 m.                2 m.m        5 m.m    5 m.m
SDjdies:
Lag Term Planning           24 m.m             Begin       Cocplete
IS,titutional                5 n.m                         Begin     Cmeplete
Padraging                                                  Begin     C,mplete
Solid Waste
Civil Wods                                                  Design    Bidding/      100%
Camplete  Begin Cons. Coaplete
Equipment                                     Bidding/
Acquisitia   100%
Tednical Assistance       396 n.m  56 n.m       56 m.m      56 m.m     56 n.m      56 .e      56 n.M     30 n.m      30 n.m
Urtbn Mansent
D31                        24 n.m                             15%       40%        d0%        100%
Plan Director              132 mnm                        Ireatigat Develcp   Lang Range Short Tem
CoWplete    Policy    Dev. Plan  Strategy
|  ((                       60 m.m                10%        20%        30%         40%        59%        787         90%       1003
|MtM                       114 m.m                10%        20%        30%         40%        50%        60%         70%        80%         90%       103Z
UP                          32 m.m                                                  40%       100X
FProlect Manwpcent                                   4%        12%        20%         29%        38%         47%        56%        66%         75%        86%          93%      100%
Note,
1. A street msintenance specialist, part of the implementation technical assistance padcage, will begin .tmk in the third quarte  of 1984.
2. TIo prorment advisors wiUl begin swor with IN9REMT darirg the third quarter of 1984.
3. The Central Area Study (TOR received and approved by the Bark) will begin daring secmd semester of 1984.



- 46 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PERU
LDEA METRDPO1XLfN DEVELORI  PRWECr
Key Institutional Actions
84  85  86  87  88 89  90  91
cxc
1. Formation and Funding of CMC
1.1 Representatives appointed
1.2 Funding established for annual operations           *
2.  Staffing CMC
2.1  Executive secretary named                         *
2.2  Five professionals appointed                      *
2.3  Support staff appointed                           *
3.  Performance
3.1 Develcp and refine monitoring and evaluation
progran                                           *
3.2 Lead loan negotiations                              *
3.3 Advise NEFC, MLM, and EMMA on two subsidiary
agreenents                                         *
3.4 Coordinate establishnent of Special and
Working Accounts                                    *
3.5  Supervision and control                               ..           .
- Subnit quarterly progress reports to Bank
- Coordinate funding and budget activities
- Review and submit to Bank TOR for technical
assistance, training, studies
1. Formation and Funding of GMTU
1.1 Municipality enacts legislation to confirm
foimation of OMTU and to define functions          *
1.2 MIC transfers staff and budget of bus studies and
regulation unit to CFIU.
1.3 MTC transfers staff and budget of traffic signal
unit to OMCTU
1.4 All agencies directed by GovernmentAumici-
pality (as apprcpriate) to suhnit schenes and
prcposals with transport implications to CMIU
for approvall 
1.5 Municipality allocates annaal operatiornal budget     .r 
to amT



-47-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
PERU
LDMA METRDPOLITAN DEVELOPRMEN PROJECT
Key Institutional Actions
84  85 86  87  88 89  90  91
2. Staffing/Training GMT1
2.1  CM1U Executive Director appointed
2.2 @ITU appoints Project Director
2.3 aMfU and INYERMET sign agreenent with
implementing advisers
2.4 Prcposed new professional staff (other than
units transferred fron 1TC)                            2  3
2.5 Training Courses - staff who have attended
courses                                               4  4    4   4
3.  Perfomnance
3.1 Monitor Lima Metrcplitan Develpmnt Plan eMPD)
and provide inputs to quarterly reports to
demonstrate project progress                          4 per year
3.2  Supervision and control for technical assistance,
(for OMIU) training, studies (except street
maintenance), equipment (except road maintenance)
3.3 Ex-post evaluation for all transport subproject
elements (except civil works)
4.  Technical Ftuctions
4.1  Establish standards for traffic engireering
design, traffic control devices, equipment.
4.2 Prepare a traffic planning/operational
manial for surveys, procedures, analyses                   *
4.3 Ccnmence and continue monitoring program of
traffic conditions, and problem identification
in areas other than included in Lima MDP.
4.4 Evaluate results of Plan Director Transport
plan and
1. Finalize transport strategy included in
Plan Director and obtain Municipality
approval                                                  *
2. Finalize Design Plan including review
on evidence of traffic
monitoring and ongoing evaluation                          *
3. Establish immediate action traffic
improvement progran based on Design
Plan fran Plan Director                                   *
4. Cammenoe necessary design studies,
implementation processes for iTmndiate
action and commence implementation.
5. Coamence functional design studies for
remainder Design Plan recomendations
4.5 Initiate recomnendations fran Bus Route
Rationalization and Traffic Study.                        *



-48-
ANNEX 7
Page 3
1PRU
LIMA METRDPOLITAN DEVELOPMNR PROJECT
Key Institutional Actions
84  85 86 87  88  89   90  91
1.  Staffing INVERMET
1.1  Subproject director named                         *
1.2  INVE1MET and CIfU sign agreement with implenent-
ing advisors                                       *
2.  Perfonnance
2.1 Contract for final designs for paving in low
incone areas and for road rehabilitation and
maintenance                                       *
2.2 Contract for final designs for transfer station
and landfill                                      *
2.3 Canplete final designs for paving and road
rehabilitation for first year of implenentation    *
2.4 Supervision and control for civil works, road
maintenance study, acquisition of road
maintenance equipment, and technical assistance
(INVERMET)                                           ..    .    *** ***.  *** ****
2.5 Procure all itens in transport, solid waste, and
municipal subprojects (per project schedule)                         k     -A  -A-A***d
2.6 Ex-post evaluation for civil works and road
maintenance equipment
2.7 Monitor LIma MDP and provide inputs to quarterly
reports to demonstrate project progress               4 per year
2.8 Prepare and submiit disbursenent request for              I I   I
all municipal subprojects                             Approximately monthly
EMMSA
1. Staffing/Training EM4SA
1.1 Financial Manager appointed                        *
1.2 Project Director appointed                    *
1.3 Director's training trip
1.4  Staffing plan implenented
2. Performance
2.1  Contract for market final design               *
2.2 Supervision and control for all market sub-
project activities                              ** **   f ** **e ****d* *
2.3 Procure all itens for market subproject        **..........****
2.4 Ex-post evaluation
2.5 Monitor Lima MDP and provide inputs to
quarterly reports to denonstrate project                l p
progress                                               per year



-49-
ANNEX 7
Page 4
PERU
LIMJA ETROPLITAN *E VEOME PROJECr
Key Institutional Actions
84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91
2.6 Prepare and submit disbursenent request for
market subproject                                       poximate y bi-rnontbly
3. Technical Functions
3.1 Commence implenentation of an efficient
charge collection and control systen                   *
3.2  Implement an operations guidebock with
detailed policies and procedures                       *
3.3  Implement accounting system and user's
manual                                                 *
3.4  Conduct a pronotion canpaign of the new
market
3.5 Adopt relocation strategy to transfer the
wholesalers and truckers to the new market           *
3.6  Camnence implenentation of recomendations
of study of long-term planning of the agri-
cultural and fruit wholeselling systen
3.7  Caomence implenentation of recomnendations
of the study on long-teim institutional
proposal for the management of the new
market
3.8 Canence implementation of recammendations
of consignment padkaging system study                *
ESMLL
1. Staffing/Training ES4LL
1.1  Advisors (GIZ) appointed                        *
2. Perfounance
2.1 Prepare TOR for design of transfer stations
and landfill                                   *
2.2  Prepare TOR for equipment acquisition            *
2.3  Submit to Bank a diagncstic review of
operational and financial perfonnance
2.4  Subnit to Bark an action plan and timetable         i
to strengthen operational efficiency
2.5 Prepare operating budget and review budget         11        1
for all districts
2.6  Supervision and control
. Civil works
 Equipment acquisition                                      i l   l l li
2.7 Ex-Post Evaluation
2.8  Monitor Lima Metrcpolitan Develcpnent Project
and provide ilnputs to quarterly reports to
demonstrate project progress                  I   1  4 per year I



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Institutional Actions
84  85  86 87  88  89 90  91
NIM_
1. Staffing/Training MLM
1,1  MLM Project Coordinator appointed (OMP)        *
1.2 Assistant Coordinator and staff appointed
1.3 Five professionals hired for (MC and UP
1.4 OPDM Project Director hired
1.5 Four OPIM staff hired
2. Performance
2.1  Coanence French contract for cadaster           *
2.2 Betterment and local taxaction                      *
2.3  Present to Bark a plan of action to inprove
municipal finances
2.4 Present to Bark a timetable for implementa-
tion of actions
2.5 Present to Bark the results of a metropolitan
financial planning and management review
2.6  Supervision, control, and Ex-Post Evaluation
of urban managenent su1project
2.7 Monitor Lima Metrqpolitan Develcpment Project
and provide inputs to quarterly reports to               r
denonstrate project progress                           per year
I    I  I



- 51 -
FM~RU                                                               AWNEX 8
LIMA ME1PO1OLITN DEVELOPME1NT PROJECI                                                Page I
Key Evaluation Indicatoras 
Iransport -uuproiect
Prcposed aspect and/or sanple                                            Data Reauired              _  4   8   8                     _ 8
Indicator of subproject coaponent for evalua-  Evaluation Criteria                                                84  85  86   87  88  89   90  91
tion                                                          Period    Direction Re-       Target
lated to Lima
Corridor
Vo1ume7     1. Tupac Anaru                        Route Based Volxie/      A.M.       Into               Car       1.02 1.10 1.17 1.22 0.80 0.83 0.88 0.91
Capacity        Section 2                         Capacity Ratios                                        Bus       -    -   -    -   0.40 0.44 0.47 0.50
Ratio                                                                       .                                                                        I
P.M.      Out of              Car      1.00 1.06 1.12 1.18 0.76 0.80 0.84 0.88
Bus       -    -    -   -  0.40 0.44 0.47 0.50
2. Tupac Aaaru                        Rotute Based Volume/     A.M.       Into               Car      1.13 1.20 1.28 1.36 1.10 1.16 1.22 1.28
Section 3                         Capacity Ratios                                        Bus          -    -    -     0.59 0.62 0.65 0.68
P.M.      Out of              Car      0.83 0.92 1.00 1.08 0.81 0.86 0. 91 0.96
Bus       -    -   -    -  0.48 0.50 0.52 0.55
3. Panamericana                       Route Based Volume/      A.M.       Into               All      1.15 1.22 1.29 1.37 1.42 1.50 1.58 1.30
Zurunmilla                        Capacity Ratios          P.M.       Out of             All      0.91 0.97 1.02 1.09 1.14 1.30 1.37 1.10
4. Pachacutec                         Raote Based Vohmie/      A.M.       Into               All      1.01 1.08 1.14 1.21 1.28 1.33 1.40 0.87
Capacity Ratios          P.M.       Out of             All      1.06 1.12 1.20 1.26 1.33 1.40 1.47 0.92
5. Avenida T. Marsano                 Route Based Vohune/      A.M.       Into               All      0.98 1.04 1.10 1.16 0.98 1.01 1.08 1.15
Capacity Ratios          P.M.       Out Of             All      1.10 1.17 1.24 1.31 1.10 1.17 1.22 1.27
Travel      1. Tupac Asaru                        Average Travel Speed    A.M.        Into               Car        41   34  27  20  42   39   36   33
Speed           Section 2                         over Section (k/h)                                     Bus        25  22   19  16  38   38   36  36
P.M.       Out of             Car       42  37  32  27  44  42   41   40
Bus       26   23   20  17  38  38   36   36
2. Tupac Amaru                        Average Travel Speed    A.M         Into               Car       10  10  10  10  18  14  10  10
Section 3                         over Section (k/h)                                     Bus       10  10  10  10  34   33   33   33
P.M.       Out Of             Car       37  30  25   20   40  37   34  31
Bus       23  20   18  15  37   37   32  31
3. Pananericana                      Average Travel Speed    A.M.         Into               Car    110  10  10  10  10  10  10  10
Zurumilla                         over Section  /h)                                      Bus       10  10  10  10  10  10  10  10
P.M.       Out of             Car    134  29   25  21  17  13  10  17
Bus       21   19  17  14  12  10  10  14
4. Pachaautec                         Average Travel Speed    A.M.        Into               Car       24  19  12  10  10  10   10  23
over Section Otfh)                                     Bus       23  19  12  10  10  10  10  23
P.M.       Out Of             Car       23  19  12  10  10  10  10  19
Bus       22   20   13  10  10  10  10  19
5. Avenae T. Marsano                  Average Travel Speed    A.M.        Into               Car       45   40   34  27   32   28   25   23
Over Section (kAi)                                     Bus       26   24  20   18  25   22   20   18
P.M.       Out Of             Car       36   32  27   23  21   16  13  10
Bus       25  23  20  17  18  15  13  10
Accidents   1. Tupac Anaru                        Fatalities - Total       Year       N/A             All Road      50  53   56  59  31  32  34   36
Users
2. Panaericana                       Fatalities - Total        Year       N/A             All Road     48   50   54   56   58  62   64   34
Users
3. Pachacutec                        Fatalities - Total        Year       N/A             All Road    23  26  27   28  29  30  31   16
3. Pachacutec                                                                              Users
4. Avenis T. Msrsano                  Fatalities - Total       Year       N/A             All Road                                    8     8
P.M        OutoCf            Users       6   6   6    7      7    7    8 



- 52 -
PERU                                                               ANNEX 8
LIMA MEIBPxOLITANW IEmVEO        PIaIJEC                                            Page 2
Key Evaluelon Indiesators
Tra-port Subproject
Frqposed aspect and/or sasple                                           Data Required
Indicator of subprolect conponent for evalua-  Evaluation Criteria                                               84  85 86   87   88  89  90  91
tion                                                         Period    Direction Re-       Target
lated to Lima
Central Area
Travel      1. Avenre Alfiaso Ugarte             Average Travel Speed    A.M.        North              Car       14  13  13  12  17  15  13   11
Speed                                            over Section (kWh)                                     Bus       14  13  13  12   17  15  13  12
South             Car       10  10  10  10  22  21  20  19
Bus       10  10  10  10  17  17  17  16
P.M.      North              Car        14  13  13  12  17  15  13   _
Bus       14  13  13  12  18  18  18  17
South             Car       10  10  10  10  22  21   20  19
Bus       10  10  10  10  17  17  17  16
Accidents  1. Avenue Alfonso Ugarte              Fatalities               Year       N/A             All Road
Users      14  15  15  16    8   9   10  11
Inter-     At Critical Intersections             Average delay per        A.M.       1. All          Bus            To be provided at functional
section     1. Av. uilca                         vehicle                  peak          approches   Other           design stage
Delay       2. Av. Unugnay                                                P.M.          to inter-   vehicles
3. Av. Bolivia                                                peak          secties
4. Av. Espana
5. Plaza Castilla
Inter-     Major Schene                         Average delay per         A.M.       1. All ap-      Bus            To be provided at functional
section     1. DoS de Mayo                      vehicle                   peak          prodces      Other          design stage
DelayF P.M.                                                                             to Plaza     vehicles
peak
Inter-     At critical intersections            Volme/capacity ratio    A.M.         1. Complete     1. Traffic    To be provided at functional
section     1. Av. Qiuica                                                 peak          irter-          flcw        design stage
Capacity    2. Av. Uruguay                                                P.M           section
3. Av. Bolivia                                                peak
4. Av. Espana
5. Dos de Mayo
Central Area: Traffic Sigial Systen and Traffic Management Meisures
The traffic signal systen and traffic mansgiiment measures wculd be isplEmented in paral1el; thus the evaluation wculd be carried cut jointly,
although individual T.M. measures may be evaluated in isolation, dependirg on final details of the lnpleentation progran.
Travel      Netwook wide, appro-dtely 5         Average trawel speed,  T. A.M    N/A                 Buses          To be provided at functional
Speed       representative rtutes thrmoju        qualified by control        peak                    Other          design stage
Central Area network.               traffic volnes            2. P.M                     Vehicles
peak
Travel      Sdinen (3M) level; Typical hus lacei  Average trawl speed     1. A.M.   Daerxirg        Buses          To be provided at functional
Speed       and traffic manaennt schanes        in schade area               peak   on schele        Other          design stage
qualified by control     2. P.M.   details          vehicles
traffic volumes.            peak
Inter-     Apprex. 25% (25 out of 100) inr      Average delay per         1. A.M.   1. All           Buses          To be provided at functional
section     tersectics prqposed for inclusion  vehicle                       peak       approach.   Other           design stge
Delay      in signal sptes                                                2 P.M.        to inter-   vehicles
peak       section
3. Repre-
sentation
Off peak
Accidents  Central area wide assessnisot        Deaths rellated to        By year   N/A              Pedestrian    To be provided at functional
vehicle voel   (total                               Other road    design stag
number enterirg central                             users
area
IPavn in Iar-Incane Areas                                          
Trawl      ApprM   _ 20 Ims cut of prtpsed      Aveae travel speed        1. Not    1. Not           Bus            Initial data provided 1y aIU
Speed      progran of 100 + kns included in    (not related to traffic   critical  critical                         at desigin  tage
|   | program                      1 flow, as vols. law)
BUS         Sanple of progran (20 Iss)           1. Bus service freqtunq  1. Day     2. All          Bus users      To be provided at functional
Service    expanded to coanplece progran            on roads paved under                             Bus oper-      design stage
Level of                                           progran                                           ators
Service                                         2. Additioal bus lnss
per bus on road
paved in program
Road ehabLlitatimn and Maintenance                                                   l                                      d         t    p
rTravel    | Sasple of typical roads (approx.    Average trawl speed in   1. Repre-  1. Not         Buses          Initial data to be provided by
Speed       10 las) paved under progran i.e.    relation to traffic       sentative critical         Other          C         bflU by negotiatios
- dual 3 lane road                  voliue                    tikes                      vehicles
- dual 2 lane road                                            (varying
- subdivided carriageway                                      traffic



- 53 -
PE1R                                                                           ANNEC 8
LIM& MEROPOLJTAN IEVE2CiTI EROJECT                                                             Page 3
Key Evaluation Indicators
Wholesale Market
Proposed aspect and/or sasple                                         Data Required
Indicator of subproject ceomont for              Evaluation Criteria                                          84      85       86      87      88      89       90     91
evaluation                                                      Period           Target Group
Thrrugb     Operating Effectiveess               1. Total Agrinulcural       Year            Users and
put/                                                (tons/year)                              Operators                          983     1010    1040    1076    1076    1076
Volume                                           2. Total Fruit
(tons/year)                                                                 577      595     610     630     630     630
Rented      Firanial Viability                   1. Total area rented        Year            Operators
Area                                                (m2/year)                                                                 29150    31155   33193   35200   35200   35200
2. Area rented in
perzanentes (W2/year)                                                     28100    29055   30043   3100D   31000   31000
3. Area rented in mnr-
pe-uacentas (e2/year)                                                      1050     2100    3150    4200   4200    4200
Number of  Operating Effectiveness               1. Total penanentes          Year          Users and
Whole-                                              (pers./year)                            Operators                           562      580     600     620      620     620
salers                                          2. Total wno-permaonetes
(pers./year)                                                                210      420     630     840     840     840
Trunking    Operating Effectiveneos             1. Supply vehicles (less han 5 toss (v/day)                                     202      210     219     228     228      228
Activities                                      2. Supply vehicles (5 to 15 tone (v/day)                                        372      387     403     420     420      420
3. Supply vehicles (6re than 15 tons (v/day)                                     4        4       5        5       5       5
4. Retail vehicles (cars (v/day)           Trucers                            3161     3294    3432    3577    3577    3577
5. Retail vehicles (asell trucks (v/ay)                                        733      764     796      830     830     830
6. Retail vehicles (trudcs sure than 3 tons (v/day)                            170      177      184     192     192     192
Wholesale  Ecoxstc Impact                        1. Av. W.P. all products   Month           Consaars
Price                                           2. Av. W.P. agric.prod.    Month
3. Av. W.P. fruit prod.    Month
Solid Waste 1/
Proposed aspect and/or sample                                             Data Required
Indicator  of subproject conponent for            Evaluation Criteria
evaluation                                                      Period           Target Group
Service                                         No. of districts served
Level                                            by ESML
- Collection                Year
- Transfer                  Year
- Disposal                  Year
Service                                         No. of districts in          Year
Effic-                                          which routes have been
iency                                           rationalized
Operat-                                         Tonnages per workday
ional                                           handled by ESMEL
Efficiency                                      - Collection              |Day
- Transfer                   Day
- Disposal                   Day
1/ MIM is in the procews of finalizirg a new strategy for the solid  uste subsector and wld  present indicators durirg
the project launch workshop to be held in Lima diring July/August 1984.



- 54 -
ANNEX 9
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenditures for
Lima Metropolitan Area
S/ .billion
Actual                    Budget
1981          1982     1983         %
INCOME
Tax Revenues
Property Taxes                   3.81          7.36    14.84         19
Entertainment Tax                1.55          2.61      4.01         5
Licenses, etc.                   1.46          2.84      4.84         6
Fees and Service Charges
Solid Wastes Fees                4.79         10.68    25.02         31
Other Fees                       1.72          4.18      8.39        11
Rents                            0.25          0.60      1.02         1
Fines                            0.85          1.15      1.72         2
Government Transfers                7.31          8.72    11.53         15
Other Income                        11.15          4.35     7.72        10
Total Receipts                     32.89         42.49    79.09        100
EXPENDITURES
Personnel                       24.35         27.51    40.95         52
Supplies and Services            2.97          7.05    20.97         27
Debt Service (principal
& interest)                    0.38          0.77      0.10        -
Infrastructure Investment        1.78          7.37      5.83         7
Others                           1.34          3.45    11.24         14
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                     30.82         46.02    79.09       100
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                       2.07         (3.53)    -



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Historical Financial Statements- INVERMET
Comparative Statement of Income
December 31
1981                   1982
(OO/S.)
REVENUESa/
Investment income                             749,594                 1,736,057
Gains on foreign exchange                     861,664                 1,513,237
income                              22,453                   97,445
Subtotal                                 1,633,711                3,346,739
EXPENDITURES
Acquisition costs short-tenm investments        27,582                   93,703
Personnel expenses                             18,189                    34,196
General expenses                               21,118                    77,856
Other expenses                                  1,286                     4,022
Subtotal                                    68,175                  209,777
EXCESS REVENUE OVER EXPENDITURES               1,565,536                 3,136,962
Equivalent US$b/
3,178,279
SOURCE: INVERMET
a!   Gasoline tax revenue treated as a capital receipt
b/   Conversion rate:  US$1 = 987 soles.



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN=DVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Historical Financial Statements - INVERMET
Comparative Funds Flow Statement
1981                   1982
(000/S.)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net profit from operations                     1,565,536               3,136,962
Add
(i)  Depreciation                                    951                   1,447
(ii)  Provision for local benefits                    336                  2,575
(iii)  Recovery from projects                        1,350                   5,800
Subtotal                                  1,568,173              3,146,784
CAPITAL INFLOW
(i)  Government grant                            450,000
(ii)  Gasoline taxes                            2,252,737              4,562,798
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                            4,270,910               7,709,582
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Investment in projects                         1,788,421               7,377,107
Acquisition of fixed assets                        5,626                   4,221
Other                                                 29                      10
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                        1,794,076               7,381,338
NET INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                   2,476,834                  328,244



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected  Revenue and  Funds Flow  - INVERMET
Basis for Projected Gasoline Tax Revenue
1l?4     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     1992
____     ----      ----     ----     ----      ---      ----     ----      ----
1)GASOLINE SALES               462.32   476.19   490.48   505.19   520,35   535.96   552.03   568.60   585.65
(MILLIONS-GALLONS)
' CHANGE                    3.77     3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00
2)AVERAGE GAS. PRICE             1.10     1.10      1.10     1.10     1,10     1.10 1.10          1.10      1.10
(US S/GALLON)
3)EX-PLANTA PRICE               42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30    42.30
(AS Z OF 2.
4)EX-PLANTA PRICE                0.47     0.47      0.47     0.47     0.47      0.47     0.47     0.47      0.47
(US S/GALLON1
5)PETROPERU-EXPLANTA REV.      223.81   230.53   237.44   244.56   251.90   259.45   267.24   275.26   275?26
(USS HILL)
6)IMPUESTO-ROEIAJE              17.38    17.90    18.44    19.00    19,56    20.15    20.76    21.38    23.02
(8% OF 5)
:)TRANSFER TO INVERMET           5.60     5,77      5.95     6.13     6.31     6.50      6.69     6.89      7.42
(USS MILL)
_--    _- -- -_ --__ -- --_  - -______-   -_--__    -- --  _- -- - _  ___ -_ -   __- ___-____  -     __- __- _- _
SOURCE CENTRAL BANK:
t TRANSFER BASED ON 52% OF
IMPUESTO RODAJE NET OF
FIXED ASSIGNMENT TAXES
PROJECTED AT                   6.60     6.80     7.01      7.22     7.43     7.66      7.89     8.12     8.75



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Revenue and Funds Flow - INVERMET
Projected Funds Flow Statement
(US$ millions)
t984     1985     1986     1987     198B      1989     1990     1991    TOTAL
SSIiRCES OF FUNDS
A. OPERATIONS
T) GASOLINE TAXES 1/        5.60      5.77     5.95     6.13     6.31     6.50      6.69     6.89    49.83
II) INVESTMENT INCOME 2/     0.40     0.20      0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10     1.20
6,00     5.97     6.05     6,23     6.41      6.60     A.79     6.99    51,03
OPERATING EXPENSES 31     0.30      0.30     0.40     0.50     0.50      0.60     0.70     0.80     4.10
GROSS FUNDS INFLOW     5.70     5.67      5.65     5.73     5.91     6.00      6,09     6,19    46.93
INCREASE IN WORKINO
CAPITAL                2,77
INVERMET-COMMITMENT
IBRD PROJECT           0,67     2,49      4,00     4.00     4.00     3.42      1.62     0,00    20.20
NET FUNDS INFLOW       2.26     3,18      1.65     1.73     1.91     2.58      4.47     6.19    23.96
P. FINANCING-IBRD PROJECT
r) INVERMET COMMITMENT      0.67     2,49      4.00     4.00     4.00     3.42      1.62     0.00    20.20
II) G,T.Z. GRANT             0.10     0.20      0.20     0.20     0.20     0.10      0.00     0.00     1.00
III) SUPPLIERS CREDITS                           2.61     1.14     1.25                                 5.00
IV) IBRD LOAN                7.55    15.43    15.64    10.01      3.93     2.56      4.36     0.62    60.10
V) GOVERNMENT BUDGET        0.00      0,00     2.56     ?.77     0.74      0.00     5.67     0.76    17.50
-_   _  --  -     -- -     -- -     -- -      -- -     ----     -- - _-_  _-_ _ -_
TOTAL FINANCING        8.32    18.12    25.01    23.12    10.12      6.08    11.65      1.38   103.80
TOTAL SOURCES         10.58    21,30    26.66    24.85    12.03      8.66    16.12      7.57   127.76
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
A. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
I) IBRD PROJECT             8.32    18.12    25.01    23.12    10.12      6.08    11.65      1.38   103.80
II) OTHER PROJECTS           2.26     3.18      1.65     1.73     1.91     2.58      4,47     6.19    23.96
TOTAL APPLICATIONS    10.58    21,30    26.66    24.85    12.03      8.66    16.12      7.57   127.76
MEMORANDUM
SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
OPENING BALANCE-INVEST.          1.73     4.50     4.50     4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50     4.50
INCREASE (DECREASE)             2,77      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0,00
CLOSING BALANCE INVEST, 4/      4,50      4.50     4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50     4.50     4.50
SOURCE: MISSION PROJECTIONS,
1/GASOLINE TAX REVENUES BASED ON PROJECTIONS ILLUSTRATED IN ANNEX 14 PAGE 1
2/INCOME FROM US$ DENOMINATED CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT YIELDING 9x,
3/ASSUMES NO DEBT FUNDING.
4/REPRESENTS ABOUT 3 MONTHS WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS



- 59 -
Annex 12
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Financial Statements - EMMSA
Comparative Statement of Income
December 31
1981                 1982 
(OOO/S.)
Gross Revenues                             461,264    100.0    773,892  100.0
Operating and Administration
Costs                                   450,013      97.6    778,101 (100.5)
Gross Margin (loss)                       11,251      2.4      (4,209)  (0.5)
Net Earnings                              17,830a/    3.9         946a/
(Equivalent US$)
Gross Revenues                           1,077,720c/            1,240,212b/
Operating and Administration
Costs                                 1,051,432               1,246,957
Gross Margin (loss)                       26,288                 (6,745)
Net Earnings                              41,659                  1,516
SOURCE: EMMSA
a/ Due to nonoperating income
b/ Conversion rate US$1 = 624 soles
c/ Conversion rate US$1 = 428 soles



- 60 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Financial Statements - EMMSA
Comparative Statement of Financial Condition
December 31
1981                   1982
(000/S.)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash in banks                          10,635                 13,680
Accounts receivable                    17,749                 49,748
Subtotal                           28,385                  63,428
Investments                                    9                     16
Fixed Assets
Assets                                 59,523                 72,796
Accumulated depreciation               (1,825)                (5,241)
Subtotal                          57,698                 67.555
Other Assets
Intangible assets                     31,451                  45,545
Other                                   1,843                 13,014
Subtotal                          33,294                 58,559
TOTAL ASSETS                                119,386                189,558
TOTAL ASSETS (equivalent US$)                                       192,000 a/
SOURCE: EMMSA
a/ Conversion rate US$1 = 987 soles



- 61 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Financial Statements- EMMSA
Comparative Statement of Financial Condition
December 31
1981                   1982
(000/S.)
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Taxes payable                             -                   44,389
Accounts payable                       11,517                 55,067
Other payables                         34,587                 16,535
Long-Term Liabilities
Provision for local benefits net       37,400                 46,571
Other liabilities                      __-__                   2,138
Subtotal                           37,400                 48,709
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            83,504                 167,700
EQUITY
Equity
Paid in capital                         2,025                  3,914
Additional capital                      6,687                  6,687
Legal reserves                            405                     783
Retained earnings                       8,935                 12,528
Current years earnings                 17,830                     946
TOTAL EQUITY                                 35,882                  24,858
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                119,386                 189,558
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
(equivalent US$)                                                192,000 a/
SOURCE: EMMSA
a/ Conversion rate US$1 = 987 soles



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Financial Statements - EMMSA
Projected Profit and Loss Statement
('000 Current Dollars)
1987     1988      1989      1990      19?1     1?92
REVENUES 4!                                           5351      5916     6871      8809      9026      9643
OPERATING COSTS 5!                                   2063      22 36    2406      2588      2880      3232
GfRBSS SARGIN                                         3288      3680     4465      6221      6146      6411
FINANCING COST
A,) INTEfiEST IBRD2 LOAN                             2467     2467      2467      2467      2243      2018
B) INTEREST-LOCAL COUNTERPARTPQ
LOAN                                     236      236       159       142        94        47
2703     2703      2656      260B      2337     2066
DEPRECIATION 1!                                       1311      1311     1311      1311      1311      1311
SINKING FUND PROVISION (MAJOR MAINTENANCE) 2!           -        500      750       750       750       7'Q
NET PROFIT(LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES                  -726      -834     -252      1551      1748      2284
------------------------------------
INCOME TAXES (40 %) 3/                                                    5-         =         95       914
___________________                                  _- _ _-  - - -- -  -__ _    -          -----     -----___
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER INCOME TAXES                   -726      -534     4-52      1551      1153      1371
WGUFCE, MISSION PROJECTIONS
1fSTfRAIGHT LINE METHOD AT 5% P.A, - EXCLUDES LAND.
2/ACCUMULATING AT 11Z P.A, TO PROVIDE USU7  .ILLION iAPPROX.) FOR F:EHABILITATION OF SITE ROADS AND
PARKING LOT IN 1995.
3/CALCULATED AT 40% WITH PROVISION OF A 5-YEAR LARRY-OVER OF LOSSES.
4/INCLUDES WHOLESALE LEASES! TOLLS FROM DELIVERY TRUCKS AND R.ETAILER VEHICLES ETCi
(A DIETAILED BREAKDOWN AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE-REPORT BY F-RST WASHINGTON ASSOCIATESII.
5/IRCLUDES STAFFING & ADMINR  RECURRENT MAINTENANCEi UTILITIES I PROPERTY TAXES ETE.
!A DETAILED BREAKDOWN AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE-REPORT BY FIRST WASHINGTON ASSOCIATES)k



- 63 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
PERU
LI14A METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected  Financial Statements  -  MS-SA
Projected Funds F1w Statment
('000 Current Dollers)
1984     1985     1986      1987     1989     1989      199O     1991      1992
SOURCES OF FUNDS
!.NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER INCOME TAXES                   -        -        -       -726     -834      -252     1551      1153     1371
4DD BACK: I. FINANCING COSTS                          -        -         -      2703     2703      2656     2609      2337     2066
11. DEPRECIATION                           -         -        -       3        1311     1311      1311     1311      1311
Ill1  SINKING FUND PAYMENT                  -         -        -         -       500      750       750      750       750
IV. INTEREST ON SINKING FUND               -         -        -         -        55      144       242      351       472
-        -        -       3288     3735     4609      6463     5902      5969
2.WORLD BANK LOAN
I.LOAN PROCEEDS                           998    10850      7868        -        -        -         -        -         -
I.CAPITALIZATION OF INTEREST
CONMITM,FEE I FRONT-END                 130       830     1751        -        -        -         -        -         -
1128    11690     9619        -        -         -        -        -         -
3.LOCAL COLNTERPART LOWN
I.LOAN PROCEEDS                             0       899      832
II.CAPITALIZATION OF INTEREST
COMMITN.FEE U FRONT-END                   0        71      164
0      970      996
4.SALE OF SURPLUS LAND                                         1000      1000
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                    1129    13650    11615       3288     3735     4609      6463     5902      5969
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
I.PROJECT EXECUTION                                    998    12749     9528        -        -         -        -         -        -
2.WuRKINM   CAPITAL                                     -        -        172       -        -         -        -         -        -
3.DERT SERVICE
WORLD BANK LOAN
I.FRONT-END FEE (0.25%)                    56        -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
II.COMMITHENT FEE (0.75%)                   74        90       15        -        -        -         -
III.INTEREST (11%)                            0       740     1736     2467      2467     2467      2467     2243      2018
IV.PRINCIPAL                                -         -        -         -        -        -       2039     2039      2039
130      030     1751      2467     2467     2467      4506     4281      4057
LOCAL COUNTERPART LOAN
I.FRONT-END FEE (0.253)                               4
III.COMITMENT FEE (0.751)                     0        13        6        -        -        -         -        -         -
TI.INTEREST (122)                            0        54      150       236      236      189       142       94        47
IV.PRINCIPAL                                -         -        -        -        393      393       393      393       393
0       71      164       236      629      582       535      488       440
TOTAL DEBT SERVILE                                 130      901     1915      2703     3096      3049     5041      4769     4498
4. SINKING FUND INCREASE                              -        -         -        -       555       994      992      1101     1222
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                 1128    13650    11615      2703     3651     3943      6033     5870      5720
SURPLUS (DEFICIT): YEAR                     -         -        -        585       84       666      430       32       250
CUNULATIVE               -        -        -        585      669      1335     1766      1797     2047
SOURCE: MISSION PROJECTIONS,
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                                              1.22      1.21     1.51     1.28      1.24     1.33
INSTALLMENT METHOD OF REPAYMENT WITH EQUL REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ON REDUCING BALANCE.



- 64  -                                        ANNEX  13
Page 3
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Financial Statements - EMMSA
Projected Statement of Financial Condition
('000 Current Dollars)
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     19P2
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
I) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS                      0       585      669      1335      1766      1797      2047
11) PROJECTED PERMANENT WORKING CAPITAL               172       172       172      172       172       172       172
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                172      757       841      1507      1938      1969     2219
FIXED ASSETS
LAND                                            5800      5800      5800    500        5800      5800      5800
5RAN MERCADO MAYORISTO PROJECT                 26221    26221    26221    26221    26221    26221    26221
LESS
ALLOWANCE FOR DEPRECIATION                          0     1311      2622      3933      5244      6555      7B66
26221    24910    23599    22288    20977    19666    18355
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS               32021    30710    29399    28088    26777    25466    24155
SINKING FUND                                            -         -        555     1449      2441      3542      4764
TOTAL ASSETS                     32193    31467    30795    31044    31155    30977    31138
DEBT AND EQUITY
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
I, LOAN FROM WORLD BANK                          22427    22427    22427    22427    20388    18349    16310
711  LOAN FROM LOCAL COUNTERPART                    1966      1966     1573      1180       787       393         0
24393    24393    2A000    23606    21174    18742    16310
EQUITY
I, LAND                                          5800      5800      5800      5800      5800      5800     s800
II. SALE OF SURPLUS LAND                           2000     2000      2000      2000      2000      2000      2000
III. RETAINED EARNINGS                                 0     -726    -1560    -1812        -260       893      2263
IV. PROVISION FOR MAJOR MAINTENANCE                                    555      1449      2441      3542      4764
7800     7074      -795      7437      9981    12235    14827
TOTAL DEBT AND EQUITY            32193    31467    30795    31044    31155    30977    31138
SOURCE: MISSION PROJECTIONS.
RATIOS:
DEBT EQUITY                                          3.1:1    3,4:1    3,5:1    3,1:1    2,1:1        1.5:1     1.1:1
RETURN ON AVERAGE CURRENT NET FIXED ASSETS IN
OPERATION - I                                        -          6         6         8        15       13        14



- 65 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
1.        The main benefits fron all the transport subprojects components
were expected to be higher travel speeds, producing savings in passenger
time and vehicle operating costs. The traffic management and engineering
schemes were expected to reduce accidents, of which an estimate was made
for the Cono Norte scheme, where the present incidence of accidents is
particularly high.
2         Highe-1 travel speeds would result from capacity improvements in
the schemes for Cono Norte, Cono Sur and Alfonso Ugarte, and from surface
improvements in all schemes but especially the road paving, rehabilitation
and maintenance schemes. Experimental surveys were carried out in various
parts of Lima to produce curves relat'ng traffic speed to flow on roads of
various dimensions under various surface conditions. The estimates of
speeds, with and without project, are crucial, since all the quantifiable
benefits depend upon them., For this reason, in the traffic engineering
schemes, traffic volumes and speeds were estimated separately in both
directions, in the morning peak, evening peak and off-peak, for cars, buses
and trucks.
3.        Curves were produced showing the variable vehicle operating costs
per km. of cars, buses and trucks at different average speeds. The costs
that vary with speed are fuel, oil, tyres, maintenance and repair,
time-depreciation (taken as 50% of total depreciation), drivers' wages and
interest (on commercial vehicles). The curves are defined in the following
table.
Variable Vehicle Operating Costs
by Type of Vehicle, at Different Speeds
(US cents/Kn)
October 1983
Speed          Cars       Trucks       Buses       Micros
70            10.4        39.3        29.2        20J
65            10.3        39.6        29.4        20.5
60            10.4        39.9        29.7        20.7
55            10.7        40.3        30.0        21.0
50            11.0        41.1        31.0        21.5
45            11.5        42.0        31.6        22.0
40            12.2        43.0        32.5         22,7
35            13.1        44.2        33.8        23.7
30            14.1        45.8        35.2        24.9
25            15.3        48.7        37.6        26.8
20            17.2        52.8        41.7        30.0
15            19,9        60.3        48.5        35.4
10            24.5        73.9        61.1        45.3
5            33.6       109.1        93.6        71.4



- 66 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        A single value of passenger time was used, equal to one-third of
average hourly earnings.
6.        Speeds with and without project were obtained fron the relevant
speed-flow curves, and benefits computed from the speed-cost curves. For
the traffic engineering schemes, it was assumed that annual benefits would
stop rising after 5 years; this conservative assumption reflected the
expectation that after this time the roads would be operating close to
capacity again. For road paving schemes, benefits(buses only) were assumed
to grow at 5% p.a. for the 10-year life. For road rehabilitation and
maintenance, annual benefits were assumed to decline linearly to zero after
10 years and 5 years, respe,ctively.
Solid Waste Transfer Scheme
7.        The only part of the solid waste subproject that could be
evaluated quantitatively was the transfer scheme. The evaluation was made
over 20 years. Vehicles were replaced after 10 years and their cost
deducted from the benefits.
Wholesale Market
8.        The largest benefits come from the expected reduction in "wastage
and losses" fran 5% to 2 1/2% of the value of the market throughput, i.e.,
from the present high level to the normal level found in other markets.
Other large benefits arise fran reductions in waiting time for vehicles and
their occupants. In addition, the design of the new market will dispense
with much of the need for porters but one-fifth of them are expected to
remain in employment. Finally, a major benefit is the release of the
valuable site at La Victoria. Evaluation was made over 20 years, with 3%
p.a. growth in annual benefits until 1989 when the market will reach full
capacity. Although markets can operate above capacity, it is assumed that
there are no additional net benefits in so doing.



- 67 -
ANNEX 15
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Results of Economic Evaluation
Economic Indicators
Subproject                      NPV             BCR          IRR
Components                       $mn                          %
Tupac Amaru A                    6.2             2.5         39
Tupac Amaru B                    9.8            5.2          69
Panamericana Norte A             2.9             5.4         98
Panamericana Norte B             4.1           16.7         262
Panamericana Norte C             1.5             2.9         55
Tomas Marsano                  21.8            15.5         139
Pachacutec                      17.9            23.2        313
Alfonso Ugarte A                 6.1             3.4         53
Alfonso Ugarte B                16.2            11.2        128
Area Traffic Control             6.4            2.9          37
Road Paving                     17.1             3.3.        65
Deferred Road Main-
tenance                       1.4             1.7          48
Road Rehabilitation              2.3             1.6         55
Transfer Stations              53.8            22.7         156
Wholesale Market               86.6             4.8          59
TOTAL                 254.1             5.5          72
NPV   = Net Present Value
BCR   = Benefit Cost Ratio
IRR   = Internal Rate of Return



- 68 -
ANNEX 16
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests
Internal Rate of Return %
Subproject
Components                        1          2        3        4       5
Tupac Amaru A                    39         38       30       35      23
Tupac Amaru B                    69         62       54       62      39
Panamericana Norte A             98         94      n/a       71      42
Panamericana Norte B            262        276      n/a      155       79
Panamericana Norte C             55         54      n/a       44      27
Tomas Marsano                   139        140      117      108      69
Pachacutec                      313       293       248      169      86
Alfonso Ugarte A                 53         52      n/a       43      27
Alfonso Ugarte B                128        125      n/a       92      57
Road Paving                      65         63      n/a       72      53
Deferred Road Main-
tenance                        48        46       n/a       51      35
Road Rehabilitation              55         53      n/a       49       29
Area Traffic Control             37         36      n/a       33      22
Transfer Stations               156        153      n/a      113      67
Market                           59         60      n/a       48       33
Tests: 1.  Standard Results
2. With shadow prices for wage rates, (-50%) and foreign exchange
(+12%)
3.  With mass transit - loss of 50% bus passengers on Tupac Amaru,
Tomas Marsano and Pachacutec
4.  One-year delay during construction
5.  Three-years delay during construction and 25% increase in
capital cost
n/a    =   not applicable



- 69 -
ANNEX '17
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Project Benefits
(Absolute and Relative Poor*)
Number of                  Attributed to Poor
Project                   Beneficiaries               Cost              Benefit
Tupac Amaru A             203,000/day                  58               46
(63)             (50)
Panamericana Norte A      206,000/day                  46                32
(51)             (36)
Tomas Marsano              140,000/day                  29               22
(34)             (26)
Pachacutec                 123,000/day                  76               62
(79)             (65)
Alfonso Ugarte/
Dos de Mayo             220,000/day                  34               28
(40)             (33)
Area Traffic Control       1 million/day                29               19
(34)             (23)
Road Paving                240,000/day                  52               47
(59)             (54)
Road Maintenance          All Road Users                32               26
(41)             (33)
Road Rehabilitation       All Road Users                32               26
(41)             (33)
Solid Waste               2,030,000 Resid-             64               54
dents                   (73)              (62)
Market                    All Residents                 58               58
(66)             (66)
TOTAL                                          49               46
(56)             (53)
* Relative poor shown in parentheses



- 70 -
ANNEX 18
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CMC           Draft Final Report, Lima Metropolitan Development Project,
December 1982.
EMMSA          Proyecto: Gran Mercado Mayorista de Lima, Resumen, Mayo 1983.
(Summary Report on the Wholesale Market, May 1983).
GTZ           Estudio de Factibilidad para la Eliminacion de Basuras en
Lima, Enero 1983.
(Feasibility Study of the Solid Waste Management in Lima,
January 1983).
First
Washington
Associates    Financial Analysis of the Wholesale Market, June 1983.
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance, Training and Studies.
Detailed Features of the Urban Transport Subproject.
Detailed Features of the Wholesale Market Subproject.
Detailed Features of the Solid Waste Subproject.
Financial Analysis (Affordability Analysis of Market Tariffs).
Detailed Economic and Social Analysis.



IBRD 17613
770                                                          NOVEMBER 1983
PERU
LIMA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Existing
/\             Transfer Stations
Landfills
[J ;-  E    ~  ~Markets
Major Roads
Roads to be improved as part of Project
Central Area Traffic Management Schemes
(D \  g   Wand Traffic Signal System
--- c \    ____Transport Corridors which include Low Income
- -C               Area Poving Programs
\0         5         10         15
PA C/l /C                                                               KILOMETERS  ,_. _,,____
N
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
oc   o Wo v aO ,Wt   0;~T         \ ,       oW W                                                    -W 
~~~~~ '                                              77 0\ -'
PA CIfIZC  OCEA AA'rl 
7, 7 t        



