LOAN NUMBER 2451-0 PE
 O   AAL 72451-1 PE
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Lima Metropolitan Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF LIMA
Dated                                 , 1985


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2451-0 PE
2451-1 PE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and the MUNICIPALITY OF LIMA (hereinafter
called the Municipality).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Peru (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million
five hundred thousand dollars ($82,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Punicipality agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as, are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Municipality, part of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the
Municipality on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Municipality declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, and to this end shall carry out Parts A, C
and D of the Project, described in said Schedule, through the


﻿-2-
entities and subdivisions- specified in the Schedule to this
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   administrative,  financial,   engineering  and
management practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
carrying out of Part A, C and D of the Project, including the
funds set forth in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
(b) The Municipality shall: (i) establish and thereafter
maintain in the Account Bank until the Closing Date, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Account for the
use of the Municipality in meeting expenditures in Soles for
Parts A, C and D of the Project; (ii) deposit therein an amount
equivalent to $400,000; (iii) promptly replenish such Project
Account in respect of amounts withdrawn from such account for the
carrying out of such parts of the Project; and (iv) ensure that:
(A) the aggregate amounts available in the Project Account do not
fall below the amount of counterpart funds required by the
Municipality to meet, together with the proceeds of the Loan, two
months of such estimated expenditures for the Project; and (B)
the Project Account is at all times operated in accordance with
rules and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Municipality shall: (i) establish, and thereafter
maintain, an urban transport unit within the Municipality with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and
issue any such operating guidelines as shall be required for the
carrying out of such functions; and (ii) appoint and thereafter
maintain: (A) a subproject coordinator for purposes of Parts A, C
and D of the Project; and (B) a subproject director for each of
Parts A and C of the Project all with qualifications and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Municipality in carry-
ing out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 (c), A.4 (e), A.4 (f), C.6 and D
of the Project, the Municipality shall employ consultants and
experts, including two procurement experts, one highway design
engineer and a road maintenance specialist, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, such consultants and experts to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for Parts A, C and
D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Municipality undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Municipality to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) The Municipality shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Proj-
ect.
Section 2.05. (a) The Municipality shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A, C and D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Municipality: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, C
and D of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in such
parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A, C and D of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank, through CMC, at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning Parts A, C and D of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Municipality of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Munici-
pality and the Bank, the Municipality shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts A, C and D of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Municipality and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Municipality Project Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Municipality shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of the Municipality and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. The Municipality shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Municipality shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogat-
ing, assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Municipality shall, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of Parts A, C and D of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Financing Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A, C and D of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Munici-
pality of its obligations under this Agreement, and under the
Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the
Municipality shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank
for its comments:


﻿-5-
(a) not later than September 30, 1986, its recommenda-
tions for a program for road maintenance for the Municipality
(including, inter alia, the institutional and financial arrange-
ments therefor);
(b) upon completion of the final designs to be made under
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (b), A.4 (a) and A.4 (b) of the Project, the
recommendations and conclusions derived therefrom;
(c) not later than June 30, 1986, its recommendations on
the utilization of the installations which shall cease to be
operated for wholesale marketing pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.12 of this Agreement;
(d) not later than March 30 of each year, furnish to the
Bank for its review and comments, the investment program,
including the operating budgets, for solid waste management for
ESMLL and for the municipal districts not included under the
ESMLL's jurisdiction, for     that  calendar year, showing    that
service charges are increasingly capable of recovering at least
ESMLL's recurrent service expenditures; and
(e) (i) not later than September 30, 1985, a review of
ESMLL's operational and financial performance; and (ii) not later
than September 30, 1986, its recommendations to strengthen the
operational efficiency and self-financing capacity of ESMLL,
including the schedule thereof;
(f) (i) not later than September 30, 1985, an assessment of
the measures proposed to be taken to improve the financial auto-
nomy of the Municipality; and (ii) not later than September 30,
1986, its recommendations, which shall have been approved by the
Borrower on a detailed plan of action, including the schedule
thereof, for all such measures which shall be taken by the
Municipality to achieve such financial autonomy; and
(g) not later than September 30, 1987 the results of the
study to be carried out under Part D.5 of the Project.
Section 2.09. The Municipality shall carry out the recom-
mendations referred to in paragraphs (a) and (f) and in sub-
paragraph (e) (ii) of Section 2.08 of this Agreement, taking into
account the comments, if any, made by the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. The Municipality shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, not later
than September 30, 1985, all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of
the facilities included in Part C.3 of the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.11. The Municipality shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1985, make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the
Guardia Civil, for purposes of assisting the Borrower in carrying
out of Part A.4 (e) of the Project which shall include, inter
alia, the appointment of a Project Manager, and that the equip-
ment to be acquired under such Part of the Project will remain
the property of the Municipality and be used only for traffic
control and traffic safety purposes.
Section 2.12. The Municipality shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1987, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, in
coordination with EMMSA, take all necessary steps to discontinue
wholesale marketing activities in the markets located in La
Victoria District and adjacent areas in such district.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Municipality
Section 3.01. The Municipality shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Municipality shall at all times operate
and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and management practices.
Section 3.03. The Municipality shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Municipality shall maintain separate
accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operation, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A, C
and D of the Project including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Municipality shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Municipality shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement and the Project Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said separate accounts, records and expenditures, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Municipality shall cause ESMLL not to incur any capital
expenditures for purposes of solid waste operations other than
those agreed upon with the Bank as of the date of this Agreement
or those necessary for repairs or replacements essential to
operations, in excess of an aggregate amount of the equivalent of
$200,000 in any one fiscal year.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "capital expend-
itures" means all expenditures incurred on account of fixed
assets, including interest charged to construction, related to
operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Municipality thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Municipality there-
of.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-9-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Municipality:
Palacio Municipal
Plaza de Armas
Lima 1, Peru
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Municipality may be taken or executed
by the Mayor of the Municipality of Lima or such other person or
persons as the Municipality shall designate in writing, and the
Municipality shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/6/     /''t,F              --~(  'v~
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
MUNICIPALITY OF LIMA
By                   A
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
The different wholly-owned or controlled entities, and a
trust fund of the Municipality, which will participate in the
carrying out of Parts A, C and D of the Project under the
supervision of CMC are as follows:
Parts A,C      All procurement                    INVERMET
and D
Part A         Execution and supervision          INVERMET
Transport Planning
Public Transport Regulation        OMTU
and Traffic Engineering
Part C         Execution and Supervision          ESMLL
Part D         Execution and Supervision          OPDM
Cadastre Office
Budget Unit
Revenue Office


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -S     -day of F_8  AfY198  7
FOR SECRETARY


