Report No. PIC3944
Project Name                         Guinea Bissau-Education II
Region                               Africa
Sector                               Education
Project ID                           GWPA1015
Borrower                             Government of Guinea Bissau
Implementing Agency                  H.E. Paulo Silva
Minister of Education
R. Areolina Cruz
Bissau, Guinea-Bissau
Tel   245-20-14-00
Fax   same
Environment Category                 C
Date PID Prepared                    May 30, 1996
Projected appraisal date             January 1997
Projected Board Date                 August 1997
A.   Country Background
1.   Guinea Bissau (population of 1.1 million), with a per capita GNP
of US$240, is among the twelve poorest countries of the world. Along
with Kenya, Tanzania and Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau has the most skewed
distribution of income when compared with other developing countries,
with 60% of income in the hands of the highest 20% of the population
and 2.1% of income in the hands of the lowest 20% of the population.
Due to the overall low level of income, its skewed distribution, and a
low level of economic growth, poverty is widespread.     About 75 % of
the population is poor, assuming poverty as an income of less than
1$US per day. Along with this low level of income, Guinea Bissau is
among the largest recipients of Official Development Assistance-ODA in
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) with $106 net ODA per capita in 1992. Yet,
it also has one of the lowest life expectancy (44 years) and highest
infant mortality (138) rates in SSA, and education indicators are
significantly below the regional average.
B.   Sector Background
2.   The education sector poses a host of immediate challenges due to
a decade or more of neglect, as well as longer term challenges to
provide basic education for all. Between 1980-1994, education
services were unable to keep pace with population growth. Primary
enrolent rates fell from 56% to 44%.    Throughout the decade, girls
comprised only one-third of primary enrolent, the lowest percentage
in Africa. Likewise, children in rural areas (tabancas), boys and
girls, have been historically poorly represented. Access to secondary
education is also extremely limited, with a 1994/95 enrolent of fewer
than 8,000 students or about 6% of the eligible age group (compared
with an average of 18% for Sub-Saharan Africa).



3.   Constraints to reversing this decline and laying the foundation
for sustainable growth of the sector are related to both supply and
demand. On the supply side, the provision of education services is
chaotic. No coherent legal framework or development strategy guides
public investments or policies in education, and sectoral progress is
not monitored despite repeated donor encouragement and support. As a
result, since the mid 1980s, Government has been implementing a
piecemeal reform program, supported by multiple donors, which focuses
on primary education to expand it from 4-6 years, and improve teacher
training and learning materials, teachers' salaries and working
conditions. While these improvements are necessary, interventions
have not been very successful due to weak government commitment and
leadership as well as the decline of public expenses on education.
Reforms were insufficient to set the system on a sustainable growth
path.
4.   Fundamental supply issues that also need to be addressed relate
to: (i) an urban bias in service delivery, (ii) lack of financial
sustainability, (iii) poor resource management and accountability
systems, and (iv) poor quality of education particularly for poor and
rural children.
5.   All these factors have adverse effects on the demand for
education. Fundamental demand issues that also need to be addressed
relate to: (i) the direct costs and the opportunity costs of education
to the family; and (ii) the perceived value of education.
C.   Program and Project Description
6.   The program which the project would support will address issues
in the short term (emergency program) and in the medium term. Policy
changes and investments are needed to arrest the persistent downward
trend in access and quality in the sector and set it on a path of
sustainable growth. At the level of sectoral policy, Government will
need to prepare a policy framework for the sector, highlighting short,
medium and long-term priorities and objectives and galvanizing donors
around the program to avoid dissipation of efforts. To correct the
most basic distortions found in financing and human resource
management, the policy would aim to: (i) increase the education
allocation in the total recurrent budget, and increase the primary
education allocation within the education budget; (ii) introduce
measures to improve the use of existing resources; (iii) develop
systems ensuring both regular and timely wage payments and effective
career development schemes for teachers; and (iv) develop a legal
framework for the sector, including governmental obligations to the
private sector in the provision of education services.
7.   At the level of service delivery, the program would focus on: (a)
improving the quality of primary education through: (i) the provision
of textbooks, teacher guides, school supplies; (ii) the upgrading of
unqualified teachers and strengthening on-the-job training,
particularly multigrade teaching skills; (iii) the improvement of
learning achievement assessment; (iv) the design of appropriate
methodologies for teaching Portuguese as a second language; and (v)
the increase of school support throughout an effective supervision;
- 2-



(b) correcting disparities in access to primary education for the poor
and girls, by: (i) constructing classrooms to increase access for poor
and rural children, (ii) introducing multigrade teaching in rural
areas, and (iii) developing and implementing a program to address the
specific constraints to girls' education to increase enrolent ratios;
and (c) strengthening sectoral management and accountability,
including: (i) systematizing budgeting and expenditure monitoring, and
(ii) developing skills needed for monitoring progress in the sector
and for decision-making.
D.   Project Financing
8.   The project is expected to be financed by IDA, by multilaterals
(UNICEF, UNDP/UNESCO, and EU), and by unilaterals (Swedish, Dutch, and
Portuguese Cooperations), all traditional partners in the education
sector in Guinea Bissau. Financing details will be worked out during
project preparation.
E.   Project Implementation
9.   The project would be implemented by existing units in the
Ministry of Education (Directorate of Education, Directorate of
Management and the Teacher Training and Curriculum Institute-INDE). To
coordinate these various directorates, overall responsibility of the
project will be entrusted to one specialized unit within the Ministry.
F.   Project Sustainability
10. Project sustainability is a major risk. Although cost savings
are expected over the life of the project, even if budgetary
allocations to the sector increase to previous levels, still,
Government resources could be insufficient to finance the recurrent
costs of these reforms and expansion. What can we do about this?
What is the scope for improving public revenue mobilization?
Recurrent cost financing? These issues will be addressed during
project preparation.
G.   Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
11. The first Education Project (Cr. 1914-GUB) closed in December
1995. It was conceived to: (i) address major policy objectives for
the education sector; (ii) foster aid coordination among donors; (iii)
improve overall resource allocation in the sector; (iv) provide an
institutional and policy framework for, and complement current
investments in, the development of the education system; and, (v)
focus on improving primary education, by supporting the Unified Basic
Education Reform nationwide, and building institutional capacity in
the education sector. The ambitious goals initially proposed have not
been apparent either in the schools nor in the Ministry of Education
management. On the contrary, the reality showed weak institutional
capacity and slow implementation, poor coordination of donors' actions
and a decline in education financing in GUB during the past few years.
During project execution, resources were primarily channeled (86%) to
civil works, furniture and equipment and only a small amount (11% ) to
teacher training and technical assistance. One of the lessons learned
-3 -



is that a sound sector policy coupled with efficient management of
resources for the sector is vital to the education sector. Future IDA
financing for education needs to be linked to a policy framework and
action plan on which the Government, donors and NGO's concerned can
work together.
H.   Poverty Category
12. This is a Category C project. The proposed project meets the
broad criteria of targeted intervention projects. It is designed to
improve access to basic education in the poorer regions of the country
and the quality of education throughout the country.
I.   Environmental Aspects
13. This is a category C project. A positive environmental impact is
expected. Education for rural children and girls is considered among
the most cost-effective vehicles to lower population growth, an
important determinant of environmental damage.
J.   Program Objective Categories:
14. This would be a human resource development project with a focus
on primary education.
K.   Project Benefits and Risks
15. Reversing the deterioration and setting up the foundation for
improvements in access, equity and management of basic education are
among the expected benefits. Economic analysis and rates of return
will be calculated during preparation. There are two main risks. The
first is whether the government can pursue a sustained increase in the
share of education in the total recurrent budget. The second is that
government might be unable to ensure efficient coordination of the
external aid. The PFP is proposing measures to address the above-
mentioned crucial issues as well as to promote more rational financial
planning mechanisms and support for managerial improvements needed in
the organization of the Ministry of Education.
Contact   Public Information Center
Point:    The World Bank                      Task Manager
1818 H Street, NW                   Carmen Perez-Castano
Washington, D.C. 20433               (202) 473-4027
Telephone:      (202) 458-5454
Fax:            (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 14, 1996.
- 4 -



