Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16550 - GUB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT
May 13, 1997
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=Guinea-Bissau peso (GWP)
US$1.00=GWP 38,313 (May 1, 1997)
[Currency Unit=CFA franc (CFAF) after May 1997
US$1.00=580.5 CFAF (May 5, 1997)]
Fiscal Year                                       School Year (SY)
January 1 - December 31 i                                  October-June
AfDB .... African Development Bank
CAS ....  Country Assistance Strategy
CENFA ..            .. Management Training Center
DCA ....                 Development Credit Agreement
DGEBA...            .. General Directorate for Basic Education and Literacy
DI ....  MOE-Directorate of Infrastructures
EBC ....  Grades 5-6 Ensino Basico Complementar
EBE ....  Grades 1-4 Ensino Basico Elementar
EMIS.         .... Education Management Information System
EU ....                  European Union
GDP .... Gross Domestic Product
GEP ....  MOE-Directorate of Planning
GER.                  .... gross enrollment rate
HBs ....                 Operational Handbooks
ICB ....  Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR ....  Implementation Completion Report
IDA ....  International Development Association
INDE ....                National Institute for Educational Development
JICA ....  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
M/E ....                 monitoring and evaluation
MOE ....                 Ministry of Education (Ministerio da EducaCdo Nacional)
MOF .           ... Ministry of Finance
N/A .... not applicable
NCB ....                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO .... nongovernmental organization
PCU ....  Project Coordination Unit
PFP .... Policy Framework Paper
PHRD .... Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (Japanese Grant)
PIM ....  Project Implementation Manual
PMC ....                 Project Management Committee
RTTs .... Regional Technical Teams
SDR ....  Special Drawing Rights
SIDA ....                Swedish International Development Agency
SOEs .... Statement of Expenditures
SPH ....                 School Publishing House or Editora Escolar
TOR .... Terms of Reference
TSCs .... Teachers' Study Committees
TSPF ....  Teachers' Salary Payment Fund
TSUs .... Teacher Support Units
UNDP .... United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF ....              United Nations Children's Fund
WFP ....                 World Food Program
Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director         Mahmood A. Ayub
Technical Manager        Ok Pannenborg
Task Team Leader         Carmen E. Perez-Castafio
Task Team Assistant      Rudi Chevannes



Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data                                                            I
Block 1: Project Description                                                      2
1.     Project development objectives                                      2
2.     Project components                                                  2
3.     Benefits and target population                                      3
4.     Institutional and implementation arrangements                       3
Block 2: Project Rationale                                                        4
5.     CAS objective(s) supported by the project                           4
6.     Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                           4
7.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  6
8.     Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection            7
9.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development  8
agencies
10.    Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                 10
11.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                    10
12.    Value added of Bank support                                        10
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments                                              11
13.    Economic Assessment                                                I 1
14.    Financial Assessment                                               11
15.    Technical Assessment                                               12
16.    Institutional Assessment                                           12
17.    Social Assessment                                                  13
18.    Environmental Assessment                                           13
19.    Participatory Approach                                             13
20.    Sustainability                                                      13
21.    Critical Risks                                                     14
22.    Possible Controversial Aspects                                     15
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions                                                     15
23.    Board and Effectiveness Conditions                                 15
24.    Other                                                              16
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies                                            16
List of Annexes
Annex IA:    Project Design Summary
Annex I B:    Letter of Basic Education Support Program Objectives
Annex 2:      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5:      Financial Summary / Project Impact on MOE Budget
Annex 6:      Procurement and Disbursement
Annex 7:      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:       Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:       Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea-Bissau
Annex 10:      Guinea-Bissau at a Glance
MAP






I of 16
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSoCIATION
Africa Regional Office
Human Development II
Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Date: May 13,1997                                                             [ 1  Draft      [x] Final
Task Manager: Carmen E. Perez-Castano                     Country Manager: Mahmood A. Ayub
Project ID: GW-PE-1015                                    Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan              PTI:        [X] Yes             [ ] No
Project Financing Data                   []  Loan        [x] Credit       [   Guarantee    [ ]   Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$1m4.3/SDRmlO.5
Proposed Terms:                            [    Multicurrency        [ ]  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10            []   Standard Variable    [   Fixed             [      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0 %
Service charge: 0.75 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local Currency      Foreign Currency        Total
Government                                                       0.1                   0.9                 10
IBRD/IDA                                                         2.1                  12.2               14.3
SIDA                                                             0.5                   3.0                3.5
TOTAL                                                            2.7                  16.1               18.8
Borrower:- Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education (MOE)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):         1998        1999        2000       2001       2002
Annual      1.9         4.0         5. 0       2.7        0.7
Cumulative                  5.9        10.9       13.6       14.3
For Guarantees: N/A                                 [    Partial Credit      [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$) N/A
Final maturity N/A
Amortization profile N/A
Financing available without guarantee?:  N/A             [     Yes                [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N/A
Expected effectiveness date: October 1997                             Closing date: March 31, 2002



2 of 16
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The project will support the Basic Education Support Program of Guinea-Bissau which aims to: (i) expand
moderately the coverage of basic education by overcoming impediments to school access and student
progression in the school system; (ii) improve the quality of school inputs and the classroom environment; and
(iii) improve human and financial resource management in basic education.
As the first stage in a 10-year education sector development program (see Letter of Basic Education Support
Program Objectives--Annex IB), the project will help to establish the institutional and educational conditions
necessary to expand and achieve quality basic education in the country by the year 2010.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will help the Government implement a strategy comprising: (i) improvement of school facilities so
that presently incomplete schools can offer at least four, and eventually six, basic education grades;
(ii) enhancement of the teaching-learning process by providing students with textbooks and teachers with
instructional guides and in-service training; (iii) implementation of a mechanism to assure the timely payment
of teacher salaries; (iv) improvement of human resource management in the Ministry of Education (MOE);
(v) strengthening of institutional capability for planning, management, and evaluation; and (vi) laying the
institutional groundwork for the next projects and a sector policy framework.
Component                        Category           Cost Incl. Contingencies  % of Total
(US$m)
I. Basic Education Access
(i) basic education infrastructure;  Physical                            9.1            48%
(ii) education planning and management  Institution-building
system; and
(iii) policy and program for promotion of
girls' schooling.
II. Basic Education Quality
(i) textbooks and pedagogical materials;  Institution-building
(ii) in-service teacher training ; and  Policy
(iii) pilot education initiatives.
III. Education Management
(i) human and financial resource     Institution-building                2.4            13%
organization;                     Project management
(ii) preparatory and prospective studies;   Policy
and
(iii) project coordination unit.
Total        18.8           100%



3 of 16
3. Benefits and target population:
Quality basic education can help reduce poverty and provide the basis for future economic and social
improvements. Within the long-term strategy, this four-year project is expected to achieve: (i) significant
reduction in teacher absenteeism as a major consequence of timely payment of teacher salaries; (ii) reduction in
disparities in access to education and repetition rates, benefiting children (mainly girls) from rural areas;
(iii) better learning outcomes as a result of improved and readily available textbooks, and teachers trained
through in-service training and technical/pedagogical support; (iv) improved planning at the MOE central and
regional directorates through the operation of the Education Management Information System (EMIS) and staff
training; (v) upgrading of MOE's overall managerial capability, with positive effects throughout the school
system; and (vi) increase in the social value of and enhanced demand for education as a result of the above-
mentioned sector improvements.
The most important target group for the project is the 7-12 age bracket (especially female) population from rural
and urban areas, whether already enrolled or out of school. Access is not limited to young first graders but open
to latecomers and dropouts willing to return to school. Other significant target groups are: (a) school teachers,
principals, inspectors, and trainers; (b) MOE staff, including senior officers, administrators, and technical
personnel, working at the central and regional units; and (c) parents and communities who need to be involved
in improving school access and the quality of their children's education.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years, 1997 through 2001.
Executing agency: Ministry of Education
Project coordination: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established at MOE and will work closely
with the MOE directorates and regional authorities. PCU will be responsible for providing technical assistance
to: (a) coordinate and follow-up the activities that MOE's different directorates, as well as external units and
other projects will provide for the development of the project; and (b) manage the project procurement and
expenditure activities.
The PCU will comprise a coordinator, who will report to the Minister of Education, three technical assistants
(Civil Works, Planning and Institutional Development, and Technical/Pedagogical Development), a
procurement specialist, an accountant, an accountant assistant, and an administrative assistant/secretary.
Project oversight: Two committees will help manage and monitor the project implementation process. First, a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) will help plan and assess both project and PCU activities and performance,
thereby ensuring overall program coordination. Chaired by MOE, it will include representatives of key project
participating institutions: central and regional MOE directorates, representatives from other projects related to
basic education, community organizations, and nongovermmental organizations (NGOs). Second, the existing
Minister of Education's Council will embody the functions of a Project Management Committee (PMC).
Chaired by the Minister of Education, and comprising MOE directors and the project coordinator, the PMC will
serve as a frequent forum for project-related interaction, coordinating different action plans, and providing quick
guidance for PCU activities. It will thus ensure that the MOE directorates follow through with timely
implementation of project components.



4 of 16
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PCU will be responsible for project financial
management, reporting, and auditing procedures following norms and standards acceptable to IDA. Accounting
records will be kept for all project-related expenditures and financing following internationally accepted
accounting principles. Project accounts and disbursements under the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be
audited annually. Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. The project special account will be managed by the project coordinator as specified in the PCU Terms of
Reference (TOR).
Monitoring and evaluation (M/E) arrangements: Under PCU guidance, M/E activities will be carried out by
MOE directorates sharing responsibility for implementation of the different project components. Official
project documentation, specifically the Project Design Summary (see Annex IA) and the Implementation Plan
in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), will provide the milestones to assist M/E development and
processing. Overall and specific M/E activities will be conducted through: (a) the Project Steering Committee
which will meet at least three times a year; (b) the Project Management Committee which will meet bi-monthly;
(c) Bank supervision missions; (d) annual progress review during Bank supervision missions; (e) project mid-
term review conducted jointly with the Bank and other agencies no later than 24 months after effectiveness; and
(f) specific M/E activities included in the implementation plan. Twice a year the PCU will prepare and send to
the Bank (by July 31 and January 31) progress reports on project implementation and outcomes. An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the Credit closing. MOE
will contribute its own evaluation of the project to the ICR.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by   The CAS for 1997-2000 is being presented along with this project
the project                     document.
The proposed Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is based on three main pillars: (a) promotion of
macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth; (b) poverty reduction and development of human resources;
and (c) support for private sector development. The Bank will also emphasize sectoral reforms to improve the
adequacy of the relevant policy framework, support local capacity building and utilization, involve the
participation of beneficiaries and stakeholders in program design and implementation, and encourage donor
coordination. The Basic Education Support Project is in line with these priorities and will be critical for
strengthening the human resource base of Guinea-Bissau by assisting the Government to expand access to basic
education, helping it improve educational quality, and strengthening the overall management of the system.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Guinea-Bissau's education sector is confronted with a host of serious and urgent challenges that stem from
broader financial and institutional deficiencies, as described below:
Insufficient and inadequate supplv of education services, poor outcomes and large internal disparities.
(a) At the primary school level, encompassing grades 1-6, the first and most pervasive problem is insufficient
access. Between 1980 and 1995 primary education services were unable to keep pace with population
growth. The 53% gross (but only 26% net) enrollment rate (GER) in the 1994/95 school year (SY) indicates
that only one out of four children in the 7-12 age group attends school. GERs range from 102.9% in the
region of Bolama, to 64.2% in urban Bissau, and down to 27.3% in rural Gabu.
(b) Girls are particularly excluded, with only a 38% GER compared with 69% for same-age boys (SY
1994/95).



5 of 16
(c) Pre-school education, with its preparatory and compensatory goals, is barely available. Consequently,
school-age children are not ready to attend school, and older students occupy primary school classrooms that
should be occupied by younger cohorts.
(d) Incomplete schools: Approximately 52% of all primary school students are piled up in the 1 st and 2nd
grades, a bottleneck caused mainly by the limited offering of additional grades. Primary education
provision ends at the 1st and 2nd grades in 10% and 23%, respectively, of rural schools. Besides, the few
children who enter school are faced with an inadequate and low-quality learning environment in which they
are expected to learn in a language that is foreign to them.
(e) High repetition (31%) and dropout (3 5%) rates (SY 1994/95) and low academic perfonnance indicate
unsatisfactory quality and efficiency outcomes. In the last two years textbooks have proved to be a real
classroom asset, but most teachers lack the basic training in textbook use, need pedagogical support and
supervision, and are highly unmotivated because of low and chronically late salary payments. School
infrastructure is extremely poor and inadequate. In many cases only a shack made of palm leaves or
bamboo serves as a school and classrooms are not equipped with even the most basic furniture and learning-
oriented tools. Regional, urban-rural, and gender disparities make things worse in equity terms.
(f) Availability of five-year secondary education is limited to 15 high schools. The 1996 enrollment was about
8,000 students, or 6% of the eligible age group, compared with an average 18% for Sub-Saharan Africa.
Post-secondary establishments are offering courses for careers in three different areas, i.e., health, law, and
teaching, but all of these establishments suffer from severe institutional and financial constraints.
Uncertain financial sustainabilitv. The lack of sufficient financial resources for recurrent costs poses a
significant constraint to expanding and improving the system. Between 1987 and 1994, education's share of the
Government's recurrent budget fell sharply from 15% to 10%, or to 0.9% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP),
compared with the Sub-Saharan Africa average of 4% of GDP. Primary education's share of the recurrent
budget also fell from 67% to 48% between 1983 and 1994. Teacher salaries are so low (approximately US$23
per month) that the profession attracts few talented individuals and loses the most capable ones to neighboring
countries or to other economic activities. The current policy dialogue, as expressed in the recent 1996-98 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), aims at significantly increasing the share of education in overall public expenditures.
Poor resource management and accountability systems. The general chaos prevailing in the recruitment,
payment, and management of education personnel, schools, and school schedules, results in significant loss of
school time and poor staff use. Teacher salary payments are chronically delayed by 2-3 months; while arrears in
the payment of allowances reach 2-3 years, further exacerbating the unattractiveness of the profession, with the
result that teacher training colleges are under-enrolled. Meanwhile, the ratio of administrative/teaching staff is
grossly high at 1:4. A voluntary departure program for civil servants launched recently, unintentionally
aggravated staffing problems, as the most qualified administrators were among the first to leave. At the MOE,
administrative procedures are cumbersome, staff functions and responsibilities are poorly defined, operating
budgets are inadequate, accountability is non-existent and, therefore, morale and productivity are low.
Social value of education. Basic education is valued by the poor of Guinea-Bissau and demand for basic
education has been increasing in recent years; those who fail to send their children to school do so mainly for
reasons of extreme poverty or deep-rooted cultural beliefs. Low school enrollment figures, particularly in rural
areas, could therefore be misleading if they are interpreted as an indication of low demand for schooling.
Preliminary results of a recent beneficiary assessment, conducted during project preparation under the Policy
and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Fund (Japanese Grant), suggest that even in the poorest tabancas
(villages) there exists a craving for leaming. Two major problems stand in the way of meeting this need:
(a) scarce provision of rural schools and classrooms; in rural areas, where 80% of the population lives,
education is not provided beyond 2nd grade in more than 23% of the schools, and only 50% of the schools have_



6 of 16
a complete set of grades 1-4; and (b) even if a school is available, the quality of education is extremely poor and
teacher absenteeism is high. Faced with this reality and the relatively high direct (for fees, textbooks, and
classroom materials) and opportunity costs of schooling, the poor often do not send their children to school as
labor is their principal asset.
Evolving Government strategy. The Government has periodically addressed the education sector's needs and
problems. An education sectoral strategy that assigned priority to improving basic education was approved by
the Council of Ministers in 1988. An education medium-term plan was discussed with major donors in 1992
and became the National Education Plan for the rest of the decade, but it failed to amass the organizational and
financial resources to make it operational. The 1995 National Education Conference recognized the need to
redefine educational policies and to produce a sector development framework within which the Government and
donors could coordinate their efforts The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-financed National
Long-Term Perspectives Study (1996) analyzed past experiences and emphasized both human resource
development and community involvement. Since February 1996, the Government has been preparing a sub-
sectoral program in basic education for the short, medium, and long term (see Annex 1 B: Letter of Basic
Education Support Program Objectives).
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Basic Education Support Project (1997-2001) will address key primary education issues. As the first step
in a 1 0-year sector program discussed with the Government, this project will follow a strategy to correct some
institutional and school-related bottlenecks and prepare the system for further and more ambitious interventions
in the near future. As requested by MOE, in full agreement with the international agencies, and the analysis of
the Databank information, the proposed project will focus on:
(a) Expanding Access: The major issue to be addressed is the low, uneven, and dispersed supply of primary
education and its equity implications. As a response to this multi-pronged issue, a moderate expansion
approach was deemed to be the most logical alternative. This would be achieved by: (i) fostering first the
universalization of grades 1-4 in existing schools; (ii) supporting the construction, rehabilitation, furnishing,
and maintenance of demand-linked classrooms to increase enrollment rates; (iii) promoting a double school
shift in both urban and rural areas in order to make more efficient use of existing space and teachers' time;
(iv) establishing a planning- and management-oriented information system at MOE central and regional
levels through the adequate operation of the School Map and the use of the already installed Databank; and
(v) encouraging the involvement of parents and communities in promoting girls' schooling.
(b) Improving Quality: The two crucial issues to tackle are: the scarcity of textbooks and learning materials
and teachers' lack of pedagogical preparation. To correct these deficiencies, the project will promote and
strengthen successful classroom-centered strategies by: (i) supporting and improving the ongoing textbook
production and distribution, including students' exercise books and teachers guides, developed by MOE's
School Publishing House (SPH) or Editora Escolar (with technical and financial support provided by the
Swedish International Development Agency--SIDA--until December 1998, after which if further support is
not available from SIDA, it will be provided by IDA until project completion); (ii) continuing to provide
basic instructional materials, also distributed by the SPH; (iii) promoting more effective in-service teacher
training approaches based on existing experiences; and (iv) supporting pilot innovation initiatives being
carried out by public, private, NGO, and community organizations in the areas of basic education access,
classroom methodologies, school management, girls' schooling; and early childhood and pre-school
education, among others.



7 of 16
(c) Enhancing Management: The issue here is MOE's sluggish management performance that permeates the
entire education system. On a selective basis, the project will aim to: (i) improve financial and human
resource management procedures whose distortions have been a continuing source of conflict and system
inefficiency, and strengthen MOE's institutional capacity with training and technical assistance; (ii) develop
preparatory studies to examine the situation or feasibility of crucial institutional or curricular proposals; and
(iii) support project coordination activities with the establishment of the PCU and provision of appropriate
technology tools to MOE.
At the macro-policy level, the Government will ensure that the share of current budgetary expenditures for
the education sector, excluding interest payments, will rise from 12.2% in 1996 to 15% in 1997 and 16% in
1998. Most of the increased expenditure in the education sector will be channeled to basic education so as
to increase its relative share in the education sector public spending. In the context of the Bank's macro
dialogue with the Government, the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and the CAS will reinforce the need to
increase the share of current budgetary expenditures on education and the CAS monitoring indicators will be
used to measure whether the targeted share was achieved.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A number of alternatives associated with access and equity, quality, and secondary education were considered
during the preparation process and were rejected in the end.
Access and Equity. During preparation, three alternatives were considered: (a) a rapid move towards universal
primary education; (b) more limited expansion with a focus on girls' education; and (c) no focus on girls'
education. A rapid expansion of primary education was rejected because the foundations for effective
expansion needed to be created first. As stated in paragraph 7, a moderate expansion approach was deemed to
be the most logical alternative for the project. However, since expansion is limited, a large share of the
enrollment increase is expected to come from families with some access already, sending more of their children
to school. In most cases, these are girls. Therefore, we advanced the work, implemented by UNICEF with the
Bank's technical and Norway's financial assistance, on identifying the barriers to girls' education. A team has
been trained to carry on a structured dialogue with communities to understand how the latter view education, the
main barriers to girls' education from their point of view, and possible solutions focusing on what communities
themselves can do. Furthermore, MOE and NGOs are taking steps to make schools reachable for girls,
increasing parental motivation, making the curriculum more relevant, and recruiting and training more female
teachers. The project will build on these steps and support theformulation ofpolicy measures and an action
plan to promote girls' schooling and channel such measures and strategies into the mainstream of project
activities.
Quality. The two alternatives rejected were: (a) a basic education curriculum reform without reaching into the
classroom; and (b) a pre-service Normal School-based teacher training program. First, another curriculum
redefinition would end up being a formalistic in the nature of an academic exercise in a school environment
characterized by extreme poverty of means and motivation. The strategic choice hinged instead on a pragmatic
strategy that brings improved teaching and new teaching materials directly into the classroom and enriches the
learning environment with a few, impact-creating tools, such as timely provision and distribution of well-
designed textbooks, teachers' guides, students' workbooks, pencils, and maps. New strength is added to this
strategy by the pilot initiatives and the experiences with an integrated 1-6 grade basic education curriculum.
Second, Normal Schools (teacher training schools) and the one-shot training programs have proved to be
inadequate. The two Normal Schools in the country have a combined annual output of 40 teachers (when the
expanded system will need hundreds each year) and they continue with the old-fashioned curricula unrelated to



8 of 16
the current needs of the system. Besides, the one-shot teacher training system is too theoretical, has no follow-
up mechanism, and newly trained teachers have immense difficulties inserting themselves into rural
communities. The project instead has devised an in-service teacher training, both for teachers already in the
system and for newly recruited teachers, that relies on improving existing instruments, incorporates other
innovative features, and provides reinforcement with a continuous feedback system.
Secondary Education. The alternative of including secondary education in the project was rejected as it would
have diverted scarce financial and human resources urgently required to address the above-mentioned basic
education issues. The problem of extremely low secondary education coverage will be addressed by a future
education sector investment project with more comprehensive objectives than this initial selective project.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing, and
planned).
Sector Issues                             Project                                  Latest Form 590
Ratings
(Bank-financed
Projects only)
IP     DO
Bank Financed:
Completed  Improve the quality, efficiency, and access of    Basic Education Development Project, Cr.  U  U
basic education by supporting teacher and  1914-GW, US$4.2 million; approved in 1988
inspector training, curriculum development, and  and closed December 31, 1995.
rehabilitation and construction of primary
schools. Strengthen education management and
planning by reforming MOE through changes in
its organizational structure and establishing a
project coordination unit.
Ongoing    Improve health and social services through the    Social Sector Project, Cr. 2465-GW, US$8.8  S  HS
Social Fund which supports, among others,  million; signed on Apr. 28, 1993; closing
projects for school constructionwith community  expected on Dec.31, 1997.
participation.
Planned     Implementthe National Health Program, focused   Health Sector InvestmentDevelopmentProject,    N/A  N/A
on primary health care services and AIDS  pre-appraised in Feb. 1997. Expected
education and prevention.                 effectiveness in November 1997.
Other development agencies:
AfDB        Rehabilitate classrooms in Bissau; build the  Education II, US$14.4 million; initiated in  N/A  N/A
Ongoing     Management Training Center-CENFA; and     1991.
provide institutional strengthening to the Bissau
Regional Directorate of Education. AfDB has
expressed interest in continuing support for the
Government's efforts in the education sector.
WFP
Ongoing     School Canteen Pilot Program in two provinces.  Current.                          N/A       N/A



9 of 16
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing, and
planned).
Sector Issues                              Project                                    Latest Form 590
Ratings
(Bank-financed
Projects only)
IP     DO
SIDA        Textbooks and teaching materials; school    Assistance for the Basic Education Support  N/A      N/A
Planned     furniture; production of statistical data; and  Program, estimated at US$3 million. Final
institutional support to regional education  amount is currently in negotiations; Apr.
offices.                                    1997-Dec. 1998.
JICA        Construction of and furniture for 316 classrooms  Project in preparation. Estimated financing of    N/A  N/A
Planned     in Bissau and three other provinces.        US$5.3m over the period 1997-98.
UNICEF      Girls schooling and institutional strengthening    Program support under preparation. Expected  N/A  N/A
Planned     for monitoring indicators.                  period: 1997-2001.
EU          Support for routine school maintenance,     Counterpart Fund Program, US$ 0.3 million in    N/A  N/A
Ongoing    teaching materials, and some of MOE's        1997 and US$0.4 million planned for 1998.
operational costs.
Internat-    Projects to strengthen institutional capacity of    ADPP, AFVP, CECI, FCG, JOCUM, PLAN  N/A     N/A
ional       communities and local NGOs related to       INTERNATIONAL, RADA/ BARNEN, SNV,
NGOs        community participation in school construction   and VSO.
Ongoing     and management; increase girls' and rural
children's schooling; develop curriculum,
teacher training, and teaching materials.
National    Development of the same activities as for   A.D., ALTERNAG, AIFA/ PALOP, AMIC,          N/A      N/A
NGOs        International NGOs, jointly with communities.   and NANTINYAN.
Ongoing     Development of local initiatives and educational
innovations in pre-school and basic education.
Religious    Delivery of Basic Education; community     Muslim, Catholic, Adventist, Evangelist, and  N/A    N/A
Organiza-   participation in school financing and       others.
tions.      management.
Ongoing
Bilateral and multilateral: EU: European Union; UNDP: United Nations Development Programme; UNICEF: United Nations
Children's Fund; WFP: World Food Program; SIDA: Swedish International Development Agency; JICA: Japanese International
Cooperation Agency.
International NGOs: ADPP: People-to-People Development Aid (Ajuda ao desenvolvimento do povo para o povo); AFVP:
French Volunteers Service (Associac§o Francesa Voluntarios do Progresso); CECI: Canadian International Studies Center (Centro
Canadiano de Estudos e Cooperacao Internacional); JOCUM: Youth with an Evangelical Mission (Jovens com uma Missao
Evangelica); FCG: Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation; PLAN INTERNATIONAL; RADA/BARNEN: (Apoio as Criancas); SNV:
Dutch International Cooperation Service (Servico Holandes de Cooperacao Internacional); VSO: British Volunteer Service (Servigo
de Voluntarios Britanicos do Ultramar).
National NGOs: A.D.: Action for Development (Acqao para o Desenvolvimento); ALTERNAG: Guinean Alternative (Alternativa
Guineense de Estudos e Alternativas); AIFA/PALOP: Participatory Research and Training Organization for the Lusophone countries
(Associagao de Investiga9ao e Formacao orientadas para a accao de natureza participativa das populacoes nos paises africanos de
lingua oficial portuguesa); AMIC: Children's Friends Association (Associacao dos amigos da crianca); NANTINYAN: Development
Association for Bijagos Islands (Associagao de promocao do desenvolvimento nas ilhas).



10 of 16
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Following the lessons learned from implementation of the completed Basic Education Development Project
(Credit 1 914-GUB) and feedback from other donors, the project will: (i) undertake moderate reforms in a step-
by-step approach within a 10-year education sector development program; (ii) establish a Project Coordination
Unit to provide leadership and management for simultaneous interventions on several fronts by MOE
directorates and coordination with other sector projects; (iii) introduce pilot experiments and the possibility of
learning how best to proceed towards more ambitious goals; (iv) develop at MOE central and regional levels
expertise in educational analysis and priority setting (EMIS); and (vi) take account of new social actors, such
as religious organizations, communities, and NGOs.
To promote access, the project will build on (i) MOE's cumulative experience in school infrastructure and the
development of alternative prototypes for school construction, learning from West African experiences; (ii) the
already installed capacity for producing data and MOE's willingness to use it for policy making; and
(iii) learning from experiences of other countries in the region with promoting girls' schooling and developing
social awareness, by means of networking and analyzing the lessons. To promote quality of basic education,
the project will build on (i) the positive experience and leadership that the SPH has demonstrated in recent years
in developing and distributing textbooks nationwide and organizing workshops for teachers on the proper use of
textbooks; (ii) reinvigorated Teachers' Study Committees (TSCs) currently operating in several regions of the
country, and (iii) efforts to systematize innovative experiences and derive new strategies to improve basic
education.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has shown its commitment to and ownership of the project in a variety of ways: (a) the
Government agreed to increase in the near future the financial resources for the education sector, especially for
basic education (mainly in the context of the macro dialogue and discussions on the PFP and CAS--see
paragraph 7); (b) the Government is taking steps to address the vexing problem of timely payment of teacher
salaries by establishing a mechanism ("Buffer Account") to alleviate this problem (see Annex 1 B); (c) starting
with the Identification Mission, the Minister of Education himself has assumed a strong leadership role in
preparation meetings within his own Ministry, in the continuing dialogue with other Ministers (especially
Finance), in frequently interacting with the missions, in offering prompt response to mission aide-memoire
recommendations, and in facilitating visits to schools and the regional education offices; (d) the same
cooperative attitude was displayed by the national and regional directors who participated in several formal and
informal meetings with the Bank missions and provided valuable feedback; (e) the installation of counterpart
teams to work with mission members on specific topics has produced a deep feeling of ownership and the sense
of a professional network group; (f) based on Bank missions' aide-memoires, the Minister of Education has
issued regulatory measures such as the 1996 School-year Calendar and the directives for a coordinated teacher
hiring strategy; (g) this cooperative manner and the endorsement of Bank missions' recommendations prompted
a smoother and more meaningful dialogue with other donors and NGOs; and (h) as an outcome of the ownership
atmosphere, a willingness is evident in every echelon of the MOE to work for long hours and to provide the
Bank missions with additional and often more refined information.
12. Value added of Bank support:
Technical expertise and a catalytic role are the two key advantages offered by the Bank. The Government
requested the Bank's technical advice in designing an education program for Guinea-Bissau, and the Bank
helped in identifying the critical issues and proposed the medium- and long-term strategy to unfold during a



11 of 16
10-year program. For both the program and project discussions with the Government, other donors, and NGOs,
the Bank brought to the table its international and Sub-Saharan African pool of experience and research-
supported data to underpin the analytical process. The establishment of a computerized Databank (a byproduct
of the preparation process) and the participatory project preparation strategy demonstrated the Bank's
professional strengths. The aide-memoires and the Databank have, over the months, come to be viewed as
points of reference for the Government, the donors, and other educational agencies. The Bank was thus able to
play a critical catalytic role among donors, NGOs, and Government agencies during the project preparation
process.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment  [   Cost-Benefit Analysis      [x] Cost-Effectiveness    [ ]  Other
(see Annex 4):                                               Analysis:                [Specify]
The economic analysis used consists of comparing the cost effectiveness of two scenarios: "with-project" and
"without project". Cost-benefit analysis was not used due to the lack of relevant data on earnings and education
levels; it was assumed that the returns to primary education were of the same magnitude as for Sub-Saharan
Africa in general, and higher than for other levels of education. The key question becomes, therefore, whether
school graduates are produced more cheaply with or without the project.
* Effectiveness Gains. All the cost-effectiveness indicators examined show a favorable and rapid
improvement through the year 2005 (end of the operational period). Cost per student/year decreases from
the year 2000 and cost per graduate becomes increasingly favorable. By the end of the project, effectiveness
gains are expected to reach approximately 5% for the cost of a primary education student/year, about 22%
for a 4th-grade graduate, and about 31 % for a 6th-grade graduate (see Annex 4). Starting in the year 2000,
the basic education system would produce more graduates at a lower unit cost. Systemwide, the
effectiveness gains to be obtained from the performance of stronger institutions are hard to measure, but they
can be expected to be significant and far-reaching.
* Project Amortization. Complete amortization of the total cumulative project costs would take place by year
2010, if all the students were to graduate from the 6th grade; and by year 201 1, if they only completed the
4th grade. If social returns could be included, the amortization period would become significantly shorter.
As a reference, Bank-accepted social rates of return for primary education in the Sub-Saharan Africa region
as a whole have been estimated at 23% and private returns at 41%.
* Fiscal Impact. The net fiscal burden imposed by the project would amount to only 0.7% of total
Government expenditure, net of interest payments, an impact that can comfortably be absorbed by the
economy.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
* Project costs (unlike the benefits they generate) do not extend beyond the implementation period.
*  The project will be co-financed as follows: IDA will finance 76.1% of project costs; SIDA, 18.5%; and the
Govermnent, 5.4% (See PAD p. 1).
* Basic education costs as a share of the total Government budget will rise, with the project (including
recurrent costs) from 15.4% in 1997 to 16.2% in 2000 and 17.9% in 2005; and without the project, from



12 of 16
15. 1% in 1997 to 16.0% in 2000 and 17.2% in 2005. It is worth noting, however, that the slightly lower
costs of a without the project scenario would be for a lower number of graduates produced at a higher unit
cost than with the project. Therefore, the financial burden imposed by the project would amount to only
0.7% of total Government budget, a fiscal impact that can be reasonably absorbed by the country (See
Annex 5, Table B).
15. Technical Assessment:
The project is based on sound educational principles and strategies. Starting with a 1 0-year educational program
framework, the missions gradually narrowed the perspective to a four-year Basic Education Support Project that
would help lay a solid foundation for future investments. Given the widespread poverty level and the very
limited access to and low-quality of basic education in Guinea-Bissau, the project focuses on selective basic
education inputs. These are designed to address systematically the access and quality issues under an equity
umbrella and in response to identified needs, opportunities, and comparative advantage. Therefore, project
components such as school construction or rehabilitation, textbook design and distribution, in-service teacher
training, school-innovation initiatives, and the Databank, were technically discussed with major stakeholders,
i.e., national authorities and experts, international donors' consultants, and NGOs, and have been carefully
tailored to fit the cultural and institutional circumstances within the country. Textbooks are locally developed
by former teachers in full consultation with regional inspectors and principals. In-service teacher training is to
be based on previous experience with the TSCs. Finally, no component has been included in the project unless
deemed conducive both to achieving the immediate objectives and creating better conditions for a future
education development project operation.
16. Institutional Assessment:
All through the design and preparation process the project was tailored to the needs and unique characteristics of
Guinea-Bissau's educational system. Separate teams of MOE-Bank experts analyzed each project component in
detail; their decisions and recommendations were submitted to the Minister of Education's Advisory Council,
after which they were revised by the MOE-Bank expert teams. Through this strategic process, the key
institutional features and the cultural aspects were identified and incorporated into the project.
The project intends to address managerial weaknesses in the executing agency (MOE) and establish a well-
staffed and equipped PCU. While individual professionals (most with professional degrees from foreign
institutions) are of acceptable quality and make valuable counterparts, MOE and its Regional Directorates as a
whole lack the requisite organizational and managerial skills.
(a) Executing agencies: MOE Directorates and units responsible for implementing or monitoring project
activities will be strengthened through the provision of equipment, training, and local and international
technical assistance. Specialized agencies, such as the Management Training Center (CENFA), will be
contracted to manage the TSCs for training teachers in a decentralized arrangement, and an NGO will be
selected to manage the pilot initiatives.
(b) Proiect management: The PCU will be adequately staffed and will have the tools and technical and financial
resources for implementing the project (see Block 1. 4).



13 of 16
17. Social Assessment:
The project's ability to achieve its anticipated goals may be affected, both positively and negatively, by several
social factors. One of the most positive factors is the parents' enduring demand for educational services for
their children in spite of serious family economic constraints. Three social factors, however, may deter people
from taking advantage of educational opportunities: (a) scarce supply of schools or additional grades,
particularly in rural areas; (b) direct costs of attending school; and (c) opportunity costs of attending school,
especially for girls.
The project addresses these negative factors by: (a) systematically adding new grades to the incomplete schools
and organizing "satellite" schools, so that at least grades 1-4, if not also 5-6, can be offered; (b) reducing the
financial costs of education through the provision of textbooks and basic instructional materials at a nominal
cost; and (c) making school more relevant and useful through quality-oriented inputs such as in-service teacher
training, textbooks and workbooks, visual tools--charts and maps, and the timely payment of teachers' salaries.
A preparatory study on girls' education will provide information for more systematic future interventions.
18. Environmental Assessment:      Environmental   [] A   [] B        [XI C
Category
As a Category C project, this operation not only does not present any environmental risk but, on the contrary,
will contribute to improving environmental awareness and care through general textbook design and teaching
materials for environment education as well as the corresponding teacher training. Schools would be built
according to acceptable standards and environmental norms. Most classrooms would simply be added to
existing schools. Provision of latrines and school-based promotion of personal and group hygiene will certainly
have a positive impact on the environment.
19. Participatory Approach:               Identification/   Implementation    Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups            IS + CON + COL    COL               COL
Intermediary NGOs                         IS + CON + COL    CON + COL         COL
Academic institutions                     IS + CON + COL    COL               COL
Local government                          IS+CON            CON +COL          COL
Other donors                             IS+CON+COL         IS+CON+COL        IS+CON+COL
IS: information sharing;    CON: consultations;   COL: collaboration
20. Sustainability:
The Basic Education Support Project has been designed as a short-term operation with a clear-cut preparatory
role. Its strategies and components aim to serve as a building block and to create medium- and long-term
conditions for a more ambitious education sector investment project in the future. The project promotes long-
term sustainability by: (a) improving MOE's capacity to manage better its human and financial resources;
(b) gradually increasing education's share of total recurrent budget resources; (c) creating permanent
mechanisms between the MOE and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for timely payment of teachers' salaries;
(d) developing MOE's planning and evaluation capacity based on the Databank and School Map informnation
system; (e) continuing financial and technical support for the efficient textbook production and distribution



14 of 16
system financed by SIDA over the last few years; (f) improving the in-service teacher training programn based
on experience; and (g) eliciting the support of parents and communities for expanding and improving basic
education as well as promoting girls' schooling.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project Development Objectives to CAS objective
Risk                     Risk                      Risk Minimization Measure
Ratin
Government allocation for recurrent costs    High    Education sector policy measures are being fostered by the
in education may not materialize at the           macro dialogue between the Bank and Govt. and monitored
expected levels.                                  through the PFP, CAS monitoring indicators, and other Bank
policy tools. Government given assurance that the share of
current budgetary expenditures for the education sector,
excluding interest payments, will rise from 12.2% in 1996
to 15% in 1997 and 16% in 1998. Most of the increased
expenditure in the education sector will be channeled to
basic education so as to increase its relative share in the
education sector public spending.
Project outputs to development objectives:
Borrower fails to implement the necessary  Moderate  The macro dialogue, mentioned above, will encompass
policies/regulations beyond project               discussion of education policy measures as well as budgetary
outputs to correct present distortions in         allocations.
access, quality, and management.
Teachers may not attend to classroom     Low    Teachers motivation will be enhanced by: (i) providing
duties even when paid on time.                    incentives (per diems) to participate in the TSCs and the
interaction opportunities among peers; (ii) delivery of additional
teaching materials; and (iii) provision of pedagogical support by
the facilitators.
Project components to outputs
Teachers' salaries fail to be paid on time.  High    A Teachers' Salary Payment Fund (TSPF) will be established
by the Govt. and donors as a buffer to any delay in the
availability of funds from the MOF. The timely payment of
workers in the social sectors is a significant issue in the Bank-
Govt. policy dialogue.
SIDA discontinues assistance for       Substant- During negotiations MOE will give assurances on textbook
textbooks which could affect the          ial    financing for the period 1997-98.
development of the textbook program               IDA will undertake financing for the textbooks if further support
after 1998.                                       from SIDA is not available. To assure operational continuity
and efficiency in SPH activities during and after the transition
from SIDA to IDA financing, MOE will keep SPH's
institutional arrangements intact; any change proposed to SPH
structure will have to be agreed with IDA.



15 of 16
Managerial and technical capacity at the    Moderate  The Project Implementation Manual and bidding documents will
Central and Regional levels fails to             be prepared prior to effectiveness.
implement the project.                           Training and national and international technical assistance will
be provided to all MOE units that will participate in project
activities.
The PCU will be staffed with technical and managerial
assistants.
Crucial activities in which MOE lacks experience or institutional
structure will be managed by other agencies (CENFA, NGOs).
Overall project risk rating
Moderate  Project risks are further alleviated by: (i) Bank's frequent and
participatory education sector dialogue with the Govt., as well as
routine discussion of education within the macro dialogue
framework; (ii) the lessons learned from implementing the
previous education project; (iii) key project donors' lasting
presence in the field; and (iv) the special training and
supervision activities planned for the early stages of project
implementation.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The timely payment of teachers' salaries could become controversial among other civil servants in the country.
This goal of timely payment is, therefore, being stated as a high priority by the Government alongside timely
payment of workers in the other social sectors.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Board and Effectiveness Conditions:
Negotiations Conditions: As conditions for Negotiations, the Government:
(a) presented an organizational plan for the operation of the Teachers' Salary Payment Buffer Account;
(b) identified the PCU Coordinator with the technical background and experience acceptable to the Bank;
(c) presented the Letter of Basic Education Support Program Objectives; and
(d) presented the draft PCU TOR and finalized it during negotiations.
Board Conditions: As conditions for Board presentation, the Government would:
(a) provide evidence that the Teachers' Salary Payment Buffer Account is open.
Effectiveness Conditions: As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) Sign the Swedish Grant Agreement;
(b) establish the PCU and appoint a coordinator, an accountant, and a procurement specialist for the project in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(c) adopt the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Association;



16 of 16
(d) establish an administrative and financial system for the Project in form and substance acceptable to the
Association;
(e) appoint an auditor for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 of the DCA.
24. Other:
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project Implementation Manual;
(b) no later than two months after effectiveness, appoint a Project Steering Committee made up of
representatives of the most important project-associated Government agencies, representatives from related
projects, and NGOs, which would convene at least three times a year to assess past activities and provide
guidance for future action plans;
(c) maintain until the completion of the project a PCU that has an adequate staff with the technical background
and experience acceptable to the Bank;
(d) maintain until the completion of the project, policies and procedures which would enable both the
Government and the Bank to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the agreed
Project Performance Indicators, the project management processes and project outcomes;
(e) prepare by May 31, 1999 (project mid term) and review with the Association, a report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed and the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding such report, as well as setting the measures recommended to ensure theI
efficient carn ng out of the Project and -be achie vement of the obiecti ies during the period following such
report;
(f) maintain the existing organizational structure of SPH; and
(g) ensure that salaries of teachers are paid in a timely and regular manner.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project comnlies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader               Technical Manager              Country Director
Carmen E. Nrez-Castafio        Ok Pannenborg                  Mahmood A. Ayub



Annex IA
Page I of 4
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Supervision             and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                           (CAS Objective to
Bank Mission)
Strengthen the human resource    Education sector public spending   Review of budget (voted
base of Guinea-Bissau by      in accordance with PFP and CAS   and executed).
assisting the Government to   recommendations agreed upon by
implement an improved basic    the Govemment.
education policy framework
aimed at expanding access and
improving the quality and
management of basic education
as a first stage of a sector
development program.
Project Development                                                                     (Development
Objectives                                                                              Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Expand moderately the coverage  I.Enrollment rates increased from   1.1 Official records,  Government will
of basic education; improve the  53% to 63% by end of the        statistics, surveys,   allocate the necessary
quality of school inputs and the  project (EOP) and repetition   focus groups, and spot  resources to carry out
classroom environment; and      rates in I st and 2nd grades     checks of schools.    the program.
improve the human and financial   reduced from 35% to 26%.
resource management in basic
education.                    2. 90% of schools provided with   2.1 idem
textbooks and 100% of
teachers participating in the in-
service teacher training by
EOP.
3. Human Resources and         3.1 Review of system
Financial management            implementation and
improved and teachers paid on   site inspection.
time.
Project Outputs                                                                         (Outputs to
Development
Objectives)
1. Increased access to basic  1.1 Classrooms offering grades 1-  1.1.1 Inspection of project  Borrower will
education among targeted        4 on a double shift basis.       civil works progress   implement necessary
groups.                         Based on School Map,             records and site     policies/regulations
classrooms:                     visits.              beyond project
266 constructed (15 by 1998,                         outputs to correct
145 by 1999, 90 by 2000, and                         present distortions in
16 by 2001);                                         access, quality, and
304 rehabilitated (20 by                             management.
1998, 170 by 1999, 105 by
2000, and 9 by 2001);



Annex IA
Page 2 of 4
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Supervision            and Risks
450 maintained (150 by 1998,                        When paid on time,
150 by 1999, and 150 by                            teachers will attend to
2000); and                                          school duties.
418.furnished (350 by 1999
and 68 by 1999).
2. Strengthened policy and   2.1 Action Plan for promoting  2.1.1 Official documents
program capacity in MOE to     girls' schooling prepared by    describing Action
promote girls' schooling.     June 1998.                       Plan.
2.2 Policy and program measures  2.2.1 Yearly plan of
incorporated in yearly plans   project activities that
of project activities.         would incorporate
policy and program
measures.
3. Increased supply of teaching    3.1 Textbooks for grades 1-4 in   3.1.1 Review of
materials.                     three basic subjects           distribution lists,
(Portuguese, Math., and        stock balances, and
Science) distributed and used  on-site inspection.
in 50% of schools in SY 97-
98; 65% in SY 98-99; 80% in
SY 99-00; and 90% in SY
2000-01.
Textbooks for grades 5-6 in
Portuguese and Math.
distributed by phases, starting
in SY 99-00.
3.2 Teacher's guides for the three  3.2.1 idem.
basic subjects provided for
each grade following above
schedule.
3.3 Teachers introduced to    3.3.1 Site inspections,
textbook use as follows:       interviews, and
grades 1-2 in SY 97-98 and     review of program
SY 98-99;                      for workshops.
grades 3-4 in SY 99-00 and
SY 00-01.
3.4 About 800 schools supplied    3.4.1 Distribution lists and
with notebooks, maps, and      on-site inspections.
pedagogical materials by end
of project (EOP).
4. In-service training program  4.1 About 660 (20%) grade 1-4    4.1.1 School reports, focus
implemented.                  teachers participate in         groups, and
Teachers' Study Committees     interviews.
in 1998; 1,650 (50%) in 1999;
2,475 (75%) in 2000; and
_______________ __   3,300 (100%) in 2001.



Annex IA
Page 3 of 4
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Supervision             and Risks
4.2 Some 60 school inspectors   4.2.1 School reports,
and 25 trainers of trainers     workshop agendas,
(pedagogical facilitators)      schedules,
recycled into RTTs and TSUs     completion reports,
by 1999, working towards        and participant
annually planned goals.         interviews.
4.3 TSUs operational in all nine    4.3.1 On-site inspection.
Regions by 1999.
4.4 Handbooks for school       4.4.1 On-site inspection.
teachers, principals, and
pedagogical facilitators
distributed by 1999.
5. Pilot initiatives developed and   5.1 Some 20 innovations reported  5.1.1 Reports submitted on
lessons learned disseminated.   and lessons learned             time according to
disseminated within the         established
sector.                         procedures.
6. Administrative and         6.1 Central and regional level  6.1.1 Review EMIS
management systems,             Educational Information          specifications against
procedures, and processes       Management System installed      performance,
improved and operational.       and staff trained and            implementation and
operational for planning and    review of School
managing sector operations      Map, site visits, and
routinely (e. g., the School    interviews.
Map).
6.2 All data on enrollment,    6.2. IReview Databank and
classrooms, furniture,          reports produced.
textbooks, teachers, training,
among others is entered into
EMIS and analyzed.
6.3 Human resource management  6.3.1 Review system
system includes appropriate     design and use and
recruitment, employment, and    site inspections.
supervision procedures,
including individual file
system for tracking personnel.
6.4 Payroll system automated and  6.4.1 Review system
operational; teachers paid on   design and use and
time each month.                site inspections.
6.5 Studies completed as the basis  6.5.1 Official documents,
for the next project; policy    designs, and reports
framework prepared.             produced.



Annex IA
Page 4 of 4
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Supervision             and Risks
7. PCU team established and   7.1 PCU team uses PIM to        7.1.1 Project Management
PIM is in use.                 develop project management       System documents,
system and establishes          PMC and PSC
process to coordinate           meetings, and
activities of all the           interviews with PCU,
stakeholders.                   committee members,
and stakeholders.
7.2 Project monitoring and     7.2.1 Review M/E system,
evaluation system established   results of PMC and
and operational, using lessons  PSC meetings, use of
learned (e.g., from pilot       lessons learned in
education initiatives) to       project designs, and
improve outputs and impact.     interviews with PCU
team.
Project Components                        Inputs                                        (Components to
[See Annex 2 for a detailed                                                             Outputs)
description.]
I. Construction, rehabilitation,    1.1 Civil works, vehicles, office
maintenance, and furnishing of  and school furniture,
classrooms, based on the        equipment, international and
School Map.                     national consultants, training,
and operational support.
2. Elaboration of an Action Plan   2.1 International and national
and development of activities   consultants and training.
to promote girls' schooling.
3. Production and distribution of  3.1 Printing services and                            SIDA project will
textbooks and teachers' guides,  pedagogical material                                 continue to support
development of teachers'        purchases, national and                              the MOE SPH and
workshops, and distribution of  international consultants,                           textbooks will be
pedagogical materials.          training, and operational                             printed as planned.
support.
4 Development of in-service   4.1 Office equipment, furniture,
training programs.             international and national
consultants, training, and
operational support.
5. Development of pilot       5.1 Financing of pilot projects
initiatives.                    and international and national
consultants..
6. Improvements in            6.1 Office equipment, furniture,                          Treasury releases
administrative and              international and national                            funds on a timely
management systems,             consultants, and training.                            basis and Buffer
procedures, and processes and                                                         Account established
their application.         I                                                          as a precondition.
7. Establishment of PCU and   7.1 Office rehabilitation, office                         Regional and central
PIM in use.                     equipment, furniture,                                 levels have the
vehicles, international and                          managerial and
national consultants, training,                      technical capacity to
and operational support.                              implement the project.



Annex IB
Page I of 5
(Translated from the original Portuguese)
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Ministry of National Education
Bissau, April 23, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn, President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. President,
The purpose of this letter is to describe for you Guinea-Bissau's Basic Education Support
Program for the period 1997 to 2001.
Since the first days of our country's independence, successive governments of Guinea-Bissau
have assigned priority to education, and in particular to basic education. The country's current education
policy is based on (i) the National Education Plan for Human Development in Guinea-Bissau (1993-
2000), which has been discussed with the Guinean society and with our principal national and
international partners, and (ii) the National Medium-Tenn Development Plan, 1994-97, as summarized
in the Government's program and approved by the National Assembly in 1995.
Although we are working with the longer term future in mind, our actual program strategy is cast
in terms of a ten-year horizon. A key element of our ten-year plan is this forward-looking Basic
Education Support Program, which focuses on four essential areas: giving priority to basic education;
emphasizing quality and equity; ensuring efficiency; and improving the institutional context.
Priority to Basic Education. By giving priority to basic education, the Government is
recognizing it as an indispensable condition for national development in economic, technological, social,
and cultural terms. This priority is based on an awareness of the importance of human capital in
preparing for the necessary changes, and on our conviction that the objectives and strategies that we are
proposing for basic education are fully in keeping with the conclusions and recommendations of the
World Conference on Education for All, which was held in Jomtien [Thailand] in 1990 under the co-
sponsorship of UNESCO, UNICEF, UNDP, and the World Bank. Our Basic Education Support Program
draws its rationale from this conceptual and operating framework.
In view of the limited availability of the full six-year basic education curriculum in Guinea-
Bissau, the Government's initial objective is to increase enrollment in the first four years (and eventually
up to the sixth grade), and to normalize the flow of students through these grades, which in effect
represents the basic minimum instruction needed to function as good citizens. Therefore, we are
reducing the number of incomplete schools (those that offer less than four grades) and are encouraging
automatic promotion from grade I to 2, while at the same time seeking practical ways to achieve full



Annex IB
Page 2 of 5
integration among the six years of basic education. These measures will ensure a moderate but steady
increase in access to basic education.
Quality and equity. The effort to increase enrollment will be accompanied by steps to improve
the quality of school instruction, within a context of equitable participation. The qualitative strategy for
basic education relies on three factors of recognized importance and impact, all of which have been
addressed already and will be reinforced by the Program:
a)    production and distribution by the Editora Escolar (School Textbook Publishing House) of
textbooks to all pupils in primary school, and the provision of teaching guides and pedagogical
materials to teachers;
b)    familiarizing teachers with the new textbooks and teaching guides; and
c)    decentralization of the in-service teacher training to the regions, and of the pre-service teacher
training to the provincial level, along with strategies for continuous skills upgrading, which will
incorporate lessons and recommendations from the studies and experiments to be undertaken as
part of the present Program.
Improvements in the accessibility and quality of education will be approached from a perspective
of equity, with a view to reaching those groups that have been bypassed by the school system, in
particular girls and children living in rural areas; reducing the number of incomplete schools, primarily
in rural areas; and attempting to bring the supply of schooling closer to the demand.
As to education for girls, studies and experiments are being launched to provide us with more
accurate information for eliminating the barriers that now impede school attendance by girls. The goal
of ensuring a basic education for all children, as part of our country's social and economic development,
will not be possible as long as three-quarters of school-age girls continue to be excluded from the school
system.
In the last few months there has been a good deal of participatory research conducted with urban
and especially rural communities to identify how they view these barriers, and to encourage possible
solutions for overcoming them. Recently a number of experiments have been undertaken, promoted by
community organizations, churches, government agencies and NGOs, in most cases with support from
international agencies, in search of strategies that will place school within the reach of girls: building or
upgrading schools close to their villages; ensuring that these are equipped with functional sanitary
facilities; enlisting the explicit commitment of communities to increase the number of girls in school;
taking steps to guarantee their safety, and ensure the quality of education; and to this end, supplying
books for pupils and support materials for teachers, and proving in-service teacher training. The
Ministry of Education (MOE) and its Regional Directorates are developing strategies to make the school
curriculum more relevant, encourage complementary programs (the "Saturday in my School" program),
and increase the number of teachers through pre-service and in-service training programs.
Efficiency considerations. Measures to promote access and quality are being and will continue
to be supplemented by efforts to create conditions that will allow for a moderate pace of growth in the
system, without sacrificing efficiency. Where necessary, double shifts will be introduced in schools to
ensure that each school can offer instruction for four grades in at least two classrooms. Many classrooms
will be rehabilitated to this end over the coming years.
Guidelines will be issued on the length of the school year, aimed at reaching a minimum of 180
school days per year. The use of school time will be examined by the Teachers' Study Committees.



Annex IB
Page 3 of 5
These are an innovative instrument for giving teachers in-service training; many of these already exist
around the country and more will be created by the Program.
Training of school principals will help to optimize the use of available resources and encourage a
greater degree of motivation and productivity on the part of the teachers.
Aware of the fact that many of the problems encountered by children in primary school originate
before they reach school age, the Government is encouraging or developing both non-formal and formal
approaches to initial and pre-school education.
In this respect, we shall seek to:
a)     gather information about the status of early education in the country;
b)     encourage experiments to be undertaken at private initiative by NGOs, community associations,
and neighborhood groups; and
c)    increase inter-sectoral projects by ministries in the social sphere to develop complementary
activities.
Institutional context. To ensure that measures to promote access, quality and equity in
education will achieve their goals and be sustainable over time, the Government has launched and will
intensify efforts to overcome the serious institutional distortions that are now frustrating the best
intentions of reform.
Among these, the timely payment of teachers' salaries is an indispensable condition for
improving performance in the sector. The creation of a Guarantee Fund [Buffer Account] to ensure
regular payment will be, we believe, a very important instrument for achieving such improvement, and
thus will surely contribute to the objectives of the program.
The efficient execution of the planned program is expected to have a considerable impact on
improving the functioning of schools, and will make it easier to motivate teachers and retain them in the
system. At the same time, administration and management of human and financial resources in the MOE
will be improved.
Partnership and coordination. To achieve these objectives and to implement the current
program outlined here represents a tremendous challenge for the Government, for which it has sought to
generate partnerships with progressive forces within Guinean society, as well as to enlist international
cooperation. For the first time in the history of MOE, we have created a Directorate of Support Services
for Private and Community Initiatives, with a view to increasing cooperation and support for private
schools.
A growing number of NGOs and community associations are joining the public effort to develop
primary schools and pre-school activities. International agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, are
cooperating with our country and are increasingly being asked to supplement government action at all
levels of national education, especially in basic education.
The preparation and execution of this Basic Education Support Program has demanded and will
demand a constant effort of cooperation and coordination among our development partners.



Annex IB
Page 4 of 5
Commitments to Action. With a view to implementing measures that will ensure the
fulfillment of the programmed activities with the help of our partners, MOE undertakes to make its best
effort for the full and timely execution of the Basic Education Support Program, in the following ways:
With respect to Access:
a)    Expand the enrollment capacity of the school system, through:
(i)    a program of school construction, rehabilitation, routine maintenance, and provision of
equipment;
(ii)   promoting adoption of double shifts in urban and rural schools with a view to making the
best use of existing school infrastructure and human resources;
(iii)   giving priority to the first four grades of basic education in rural schools (gradually
moving up to the sixth grade); and
(iv)   encouraging teachers, principals, and inspectors to adopt a policy of automatic
promotion, especially between grades 1 and 2.
b)    Establish an information system at both the central and regional levels that will allow for
planning and administration using the School Map and the Database.
c)    Develop an Action Plan to promote schooling for girls, in order to:
(i)    encourage involvement of parents, educational authorities, and the community at large in
overcoming the obstacles that impede girls' access to schools;
(ii)   develop and prioritize within the various activities of this program actions, strategies,
and policies that will promote the schooling of girls on the basis of recommendations
from the participatory research and innovative experiments now underway.
With respect to Oualitv:
(d)    Maintain and expand the book production, distribution, and familiarization program, and expand
efforts for the use of books, including teaching guides and exercise books, prepared by the
Editora Escolar;
(e)    Encourage efficient strategies for in-service teacher training and continuous skills upgrading,
drawing on the results of national experiments (such as the Teachers' Study Committees), and
reinforcing the efforts of regional officials to provide pedagogical support to teachers, to help
them deal with the problems they will encounter in the classroom, while decentralizing functions
to the Regional Directorates, which are closer to the schools and thus better placed to respond to
specific educational demands at the regional level;
(f)    Support pilot experiments by public and private organizations, NGOs, and community
associations in promoting access to basic education, and in new methodologies, better school
management, and initial and pre-school education, among others.
With resRect to Management:
(g)   Improve human and financial resource management procedures, where distortions have given
rise to conflict and inefficiency in the system, and strengthen MOE's institutional capacity
through technical assistance and training;



Annex IB
Page 5 of 5
(h)    Establish a mechanism for regular and timely payment of teachers' salaries, in order, on the one
hand, to guarantee the smooth operation of the schools and on the other hand to retain teachers
within the system. Under this program, the Government has already taken steps to deal with the
social instability caused by continuing arrears in teachers' pay by creating a temporary account,
which it will keep funded to cover of two months' salaries, as a guarantee or Buffer Account for
Timely Payment. To support this fund, the Government intends to mobilize resources in the
amount of US$ 220,000 no later than June of this year, or 50 percent of the estimated overall
requirement. At the same time the Government, through the Ministries of Finance and
Education, will continue its efforts to obtain the remaining 50 percent from its development
partners.
(i)    Continue with improvements to the Guinean education system that will generate a favorable
climate of public opinion toward education, creating conditions that will encourage teachers to
stay within the system and upgrade their performance (timely payment of salaries, more
pedagogic support, and better physical working conditions).
(j)    Conduct preparatory studies that will examine the feasibility of proposals for educational and
institutional development, as well as helping to define policies and programs for the future, not
only for primary schooling but for the secondary and post-secondary education sub-sectors as
well; identifying organizational and operational needs of MOE; enhancing teaching as a career;
designing and testing a program for pre-service teacher training, including strategies for
continuous skills upgrading and in-service training; experiments for applying the unified basic
education curriculum; developing experiments for lending/returning textbooks in schools, and
for textbook rental at the secondary level.
(k)    Guarantee a gradual increase in the percentage share of funding allocated to the Educational
Sector Operating Budget, which, in accordance with the macroeconomic program, is forecast to
grow as follows: from 12.2 percent in 1996 to 15 percent in 1997, and to 16 percent in 1998.
Absolute priority will be given to resources for developing and improving basic education, to
make it the fulcrum of the country's educational advancement and to prevent any backsliding.
Yours most sincerely
PAULO SILVA
Minister of National Education






ANNEX 2
Page I of 11
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Detailed Project Description
1.    Designed to correct some institutional and school-related bottlenecks and prepare
the system for further and more ambitious interventions in the near future, the project is a
straightforward and participatory operation that includes three components:
COMPONENT 1: BASIC EDUCATION ACCESS
US$9.1 million (total cost of component)
2.    Objectives. This component aims to: (a) expand enrollment capacity and begin to
normalize student flow primarily through the basic education grades 1-4, thus opening
educational opportunities to newcomers (age 6-7) out of school today, and to those forced
repeaters reprocessed by incomplete (offering less than four grades) and mostly rural
schools; (b) improve the Ministry of Education's (MOE's) planning capacity, thus
making reliable information available for policy formulation, decision making, and
system monitoring, and training staff members to use information technology; and
(c) promote girls' schooling and education, thus addressing one of the deepest and most
dysfunctional among gender-related issues in the country. A limited expansion strategy
intends to increase school vacancies by gradually enlarging the supply of classrooms and
promoting a more rational use (double shift) of classroom and teacher's time. The
rationalization process will be enhanced by the Education Management Information
System (EMIS), which includes a Databank. The component consists of the following
sub-components:
Sub-component 1: Basic Education Infrastructure
3.    Description.  The sub-component will help the Government expand basic
schooling in a cooperative effort to increase school space through the following actions:
(a) Construction of 266 classrooms located nationwide (financed by the International
Development Agency-IDA), including sanitary facilities. During the project, the
Government will also construct new classrooms with the support of the Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA), 169 in school year 1997 mostly in Bissau,
to alleviate the burden of schools which now have triple-shift classes, as well as in the
regions of Biombo, Cacheu, and Oio. Other donors, mainly international NGOs (i.e.,
Plan International and People-to-People Development Aid) and national NGOs (for
example, ALTERNAG) will also support the Government and communities in school
infrastructure improvements. An African Development Bank (AfDB)-financed
project to provide classrooms mainly in Bissau is being completed.



ANNEX2
Page 2 of I1
(b) Rehabilitation (financed by IDA) of 304 dilapidated or inadequate classrooms;
(c) Routine Maintenance of 450 classrooms to be carried out by the Government and
financed by the Export Counterpart Fund managed by the European Union (EU); and
(d) Furnishing of 418 classrooms.  Of the 570 classrooms to be constructed or
rehabilitated, new furniture will be provided for 418 classrooms: 300 by the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) and 118 by IDA; the remaining 152
classrooms will be refurbished with existing furniture.
4.   Implementation Arrangements. Civil works financed by IDA will focus on
incomplete schools (offering less than four grades), and will aim at assuring the operation
of at least two classrooms in every school, so as to allow for the operation of at least the
first four school grades offered on a double-shift basis. To match the new classroom and
double-shift strategy an average of 100 new teachers will be hired a year (approximately
300 teachers in three years) within MOE's recurrent budget.
5.    Execution of the IDA-financed construction and rehabilitation program as well as
school furniture will be contracted through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
6.    The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be reinforced with a civil works expert
to manage the overall programming and monitoring of construction activities. Local
consultancies will be financed to strengthen MOE's capacity to carry out physical works
in several regions simultaneously and for design and costing services. The MOE
Directorate of Infrastructures (DI) will be responsible for: (i) establishing requirements
and criteria for school-site selection based on the MOE's Directorate of Planning's
(GEP's) plan of activities (derived from the preparation process for the first year and
from the School Mapping exercise for the following years); (ii) preparing the yearly
construction program, including school location, construction phasing, and supervision
and monitoring; (iii) regularly updating information on infrastructure needs, unit
construction costs, and space requirements, based on the Databank and School Map
started during preparation and to be further developed and maintained by GEP as part of
the EMIS sub-component; and (iv) assuring that works are completed as specified in the
contracts.
7.    Routine school maintenance will be carried out according to procedures
acceptable to the EU-managed Export Counterpart Fund. SIDA-financed classroom
furniture will be provided under the MOE-SIDA cooperation program, in coordination
with the PCU.
Sub-component 2: Education Planning and Management System
8.    Description. The sub-component comprises the design and implementation of an
Education Management Information System (EMIS) to enhance MOE's planning and



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11
management functions, including Monitoring and Evaluation activities, through the
following actions:
(a) GEP and the nine regional directorates will be equipped with information technology
(computers, printers, power source, software) and their staff (at least three from each
region) will receive in-service training to collect, analyze, upgrade, and fully operate
the educational databases;
(b) the Databank created and operated as a byproduct of the project preparation process
and containing four files (schools and school setting, student enrollment, MOE
personnel, and infrastructure/furniture) will be completed, updated, and have new
fields or variables added;
(c) the School Map will be established to update and improve existing data collection,
processing, and analyses on the quantitative and qualitative aspects (micro-level) of
school supply and demand throughout the country, school-related socio-demographic
variables, and community expectations about schools and their willingness to
cooperate in school building and operation;
(d) the statistical services will be upgraded so that routine educational statistics can be
collected according to international standards and used to produce the Statistical
Yearbook, whose annual publication and distribution would be restarted; and
(e) in-service training seminars and hands-on workshops will be conducted on data
analysis for policy making, program planning, and monitoring and evaluation to train
both the information system staff and the decision-making managers at the central and
regional levels, in making proper use of the available inforrnation.
9.   Implementation Arrangements. Procurement of equipment for the central and
regional GEP offices will be undertaken by the PCU. To develop the School Map and for
the data-collection activities of the Databank, local and international consultants will be
hired by the PCU and services obtained for report production and printing. The
procurement of computers and power supply gear will require coordination with other
donors, for which the PCU will make all the necessary arrangements. Supervision
missions will check on the application of the EMIS to the educational system
management and enforce its use for preparing annual plans and periodic or ad hoc reports
at all MOE levels.
Sub-component 3: Policy and Program for Promotion of Girls' Schooling
10.   Description. This sub-component comprises the formulation of policy measures
and a plan of action to promote girls' schooling. It would build such measures and
strategies into the project activities, and mobilize parents, communities, and schools to
eliminate the barriers to girls attending school.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of II
11.   During project preparation, a study was launched to identify the barriers to girls'
education. A team was trained to carry on a structured dialogue with the communities to
understand how they view education and schools, the main barriers to girls' education
from their point of view, and possible solutions focusing on what communities
themselves can do. This study is ongoing and is being coordinated by the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF), with technical assistance from the World Bank and financial
assistance from the Government of Norway. Different institutions, mainly MOE and the
NGOs, are also promoting a number of steps to make schools reachable for girls, such as
reducing the distance to school, increasing the number of school places, and providing
latrines (activities which will be reinforced by the project through sub-component 1);
increasing parental motivation; making the curriculum more relevant (extra-curricular
activities on Saturdays through a pilot program conducted by the MOE General
Directorate of Basic Education and Literacy-DGEBA); and recruiting and training more
female teachers (MOE-UNICEF Program in Gabu -- the region with the lowest indicators
on girls' school enrollment).
12.   The project will support:
(a) The elaboration of an Action Plan for Promoting Girls' Education by 1998, building
on results of current studies and lessons learned from ongoing experiences as well as
those in neighboring countries, for which local and international technical assistance
will be provided;
(b) Mobilization of communities, parents, and teachers through workshops, meetings,
and information, education, and communication (IEC) strategies;
(c) Development of social assessments through participatory learning and action (PLA)
methods to complement the School Map exercise; and
(d) Implementation within the project sub-components of specific measures or strategies
formulated to promote girls' schooling as well as the Action Plan to be prepared in
1998. Possible activities could be to: (i) reinforce Government strategy to increase
access and provide latrines in schools; (ii) promote the organization of "satellite
schools" to answer parental concerns about girls' safety and social reputation, and
construction of latrines, following the local community recommendations; (iii) lower
the cost of educating girls in rural areas by reviewing the current policy of a charge
for pedagogical materials; (iv) develop modules for pre- and in-service teacher
training to provide teachers with strategies for recognizing and responding to gender
bias and to give greater support to girls in school; (v) support specific initiatives to
promote girls' schooling through the sub-component for pilot initiatives; and
(vi) establish criteria and monitor the yearly plan for recruiting, deploying, and
training female teachers.
13.  Implementation Arrangements. These activities will be carried out mainly by the
DGEBA. Technical assistance will be provided in accordance with IDA procedures.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
COMPONENT 2: BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY
US$7.3 million (total cost of component)
14.   Objective.  This component aims to improve basic education quality by
mobilizing factors that have a positive impact on the teaching-learning process in the
classroom  and on the outcomes of schooling.  To accomplish this objective the
component is geared to: (a) produce and distribute textbooks -- conceivably the most
powerful and change-provoking classroom input -- and teachers' guides, thus reinforcing
classroom activities, and training teachers for the adequate use of textbooks; (b) establish
an innovative in-service teacher training system and sustainable mechanisms of technical
teacher support, thus increasing teachers' professional competence and motivation; and
(c) support pilot initiatives and studies in priority education areas, highlighting replicable
good practices and gathering valuable information for planning future activities. This
component consists of the following sub-components:
Sub-component 1: Textbooks and Pedagogical Materials
15.   Description. The sub-component aims at providing each student with a set of
nationally produced textbooks and instructional materials by implementing five elements:
(a) Textbook Production and Distribution. This element will support and improve the
ongoing textbook production and distribution program developed by MOE's School
Publishing House (SPH) or Editora Escolar, with technical and financial support
provided by SIDA until the end of 1998. Thereafter, if further support from SIDA is
not available, IDA will undertake the financing of this sub-component. Under this
sub-component, the SPH will continue its successful production and distribution
activities. During the four-year project:  (i) Portuguese, Mathematics, Social
Sciences, and Environmental Studies textbooks for grades 1-4 will continue to be
distributed; (ii) Science textbooks for grades 3-4 will be produced and distributed;
and (iii) Portuguese and Mathematics textbooks for grades 5-6 will be produced.
Every teacher will receive a teacher's guide corresponding to each subject.
(b) Teachers' Introduction to Textbook Use. The SPH will continue, throughout the
project, to offer a series of seminars to introduce all teachers and leaders of Teachers'
Study Committees (TSCs) to the content and methodological approaches included in
the textbooks and teachers' guides. Every project year, 72 two-day seminars will be
promoted in 12 locations in the nine regions. Facilitators for these seminars will be
textbook specialists, including the textbook authors themselves.
(c) Bi-weekly seminars with the TSC leaders. To enhance teachers' performance in using
textbooks, seminars with TSC leaders started early in 1997 as a complementary
activity supported by SIDA until project effectiveness; thereafter this activity is to be
financed by IDA during the project life.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of II
(d) Pedagogical Materials. This element refers to two types of didactic tools: (i) a four-
item individual set consisting of a notebook, a pencil, an eraser, and a box of coloring
pencils distributed by the SPH through the regional representatives; and (ii) a set of
maps and simple audio-visual aids distributed to all public schools at an average cost
of US$130 per classroom.
(e) Two Pilot Studies. These will be done for: (i) a borrow-and-return textbook
experience with primary school students, who now pay a nominal fee for textbook
packages that they are not expected to return; and (ii) the feasibility of a textbook
rental service for secondary school students.
16.  Implementation Arrangements. The sub-component will almost entirely be the
responsibility of the SPH. Elements under (a) Textbook Production and Distribution;
(b) Teachers' Introduction to Textbook Use; (c) bi-weekly seminars with the TSC
leaders; and (d) a four-item individual set will be financed by SIDA until December 1998
and thereafter by IDA. Materials will be produced or procured, distributed, and
monitored by SPH, following SIDA procedures until the end of 1998 and IDA procedures
thereafter, mainly through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  To assure
operational continuity and efficiency in SPH activities during and after the transition
from SIDA to IDA financing, MOE will keep SPH's institutional arrangements intact;
any change proposed to SPH structure will have to be agreed upon with IDA.
17.   Textbook authors are currently selected from among the best teachers in the
country to work as team members under the auspices of the SPH, with technical
assistance provided by SIDA's national and international consultants. Books are printed
abroad and distributed by SPH regional representatives.
18.   Maps and audio-visual materials will be financed by IDA, procured by the PCU in
close coordination with DGEBA, and distributed by SPH. The two pilot studies will be
assisted by local and international technical assistance.
Sub-component 2: In-service Teacher Training
19.   Description. The sub-component would contribute to improving basic education
quality by focusing on teacher and teaching quality.  Given the inadequacy and
inefficiency of the pre-service teacher training as well as the lack of teacher pedagogical
support and supervision, the project will adopt an effective in-service strategy based on
existing modalities and new group-centered approaches:
(a) Reactivation and Improvement of the TSCs. The TSCs were launched by MOE to
involve teachers in bi-weekly technical meetings under a senior colleague's
leadership (the TSC president) to work on school programs and methodological
strategies to be applied in classrooms during the ensuing school weeks. In one full
school year, teachers will participate in 16 TSC sessions, equivalent to 64 hours of in-
service training. Each TSC will comprise about 20 teachers. The project will



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of II
reactivate the potentially effective but past wavering experience of the TSCs by
financing the permanent networking and planning support of the TSC presidents, and
facilitating per diems for teachers. This element will be reinforced by the others in
(b) through-(d) below. It is expected that in 1998, 20% percent of the basic education
teachers will be reached; 50% in 1999; 75% in 2000; and 100% in the year 2001.
(b) Organization of the Regional Technical Teams (RTTs) made up of 60 school
inspectors and 25 trainers of trainers, who will be recycled, integrated into the entire
in-service training strategy, particularly with the TSC and TSU network (see [c]
below), and all will be equipped with a technical handbook on school supervision
strategies.
(c) Establishment of nine Teacher 's Support Units (TSUs). The TSUs, one in each of the
nine Regional Directorates, will serve as resource centers consisting of a basic
collection of pedagogical texts, encyclopedias, audio-visual programs, pedagogical
materials and classroom supplies, a computer and printer, a set of audio-visual
equipment (TV, VCR, and radio-cassette), a photocopier machine, and a power
source. Each will serve as an educational clearinghouse in the region and as a point
of reference and encounter for teachers, inspectors, and trainers.
(d) Design and Publication of Operational Handbooks (HBs) for 3,300 teachers, 300
school directors, 100 members of the RTTs, and other school pedagogical facilitators.
These HBs, produced for each of the separate groups, are meant to be a practical
companion and source of information, orientation, and support. For example, the
Teacher's Handbook will be an emphatically classroom-oriented manual that will
present in an applied manner, the fundamentals of productive classroom management,
effective teaching-learning interaction, innovative ideas, and constructive evaluation
techniques.
20.  Implementation Arrangements. Elements under (a) and (b) will be implemented
by the Management Training Center (CENFA) in close coordination with MOE's
DGEBA, the National Institute for Educational Development (INDE), the Regional
Directorates, and the SPH according to procedures detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). Elements under (c) will be implemented by DGEBA and the Regional
Directorates, and the procurement and installation of equipment will be carried out by
PCU.  Elements under (d) will be supervised by INDE, in close coordination with
DGEBA, the General Inspectorate and the Regional Inspectors, and CENFA, and
procured by the PCU.
Sub-component 3: Education Pilot Initiatives
21.   Description. The sub-component intends to foster innovations in basic education
by providing seminal financial and technical support for starting, improving, maintaining,
and disseminating local and school-based pilot initiatives at the pre-school and basic
education levels that could make the access, equity, quality, as well as management



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11
processes more effective and efficient in various education settings. Three actions are
implied:
(a) Assessment of NGO Capacity and Pilot Initiatives: Successful or promising, albeit
low-scale, experiences have been identified at different education levels and
institutions supported by NGOs and religious or community-based organizations. At
the basic education level, public and private schools are experimenting with new
methodologies for curriculum relevance, bilingual education, girls' education, and
community participation programs. At the initial and pre-school levels, NGOs (many
with UNICEF support) are pioneering non-formal programs at the grassroots level
and developing brand-new materials with a marked local flavor. During the first year,
the project will assess the administrative and technical capabilities and comparative
advantage of NGOs for working as a catalytic instrument for innovation and
mobilizing community resources to address basic education problems at the micro
level. A study will be carried out for this purpose that will provide recommendations
to the DGEBA for the design of a plan of activities for the remaining project years
and produce a detailed implementation manual for this sub-component.
(b) Support of Innovative Experiences: At least 20 sub-projects will be financed over
three years starting in the school year 1998-99: about 6 in the first year of operation,
9 in the second, and 5 in the third. Sub-projects can be proposed by public or private
schools, NGOs, and community/parents' associations operating'new activities at the
pre-school or basic education levels, whether formal or non-formal. Sub-project
eligibility and selection for IDA financing will be based on a list of predetermined
criteria. Detailed procedures are described in the PIM.
(c) Dissemination of Best Practices: The dissemination process will have two stages:
(i) all sub-projects will be regularly assessed by a consultant and selected good
practices and preliminary results will be disseminated in a quarterly newsletter during
the project; and (ii) assessments and results of all the sub-projects will be
disseminated in a final report. Local and school-based innovative experiences will
receive support to become more visible and replicable within the system. The project
will select the best of these ongoing or prospective experiences and initiatives to
make them stronger and disseminate their lessons and observed outcomes. The
dissemination of successful experiences is expected to have a demonstration effect
and gradually induce significant changes throughout the education system.
22.  Implementation Arrangements.  Technical assistance will be contracted to
develop the initial study, in accordance with IDA procedures. DGEBA, INDE, and
CENFA will support and monitor the study. A competition-selected NGO will manage
this project activity under supervision provided by the PCU and MOE. The annual
selection of participant institutions and schools will be carried out by an ad hoc Selection
Committee on the basis of predetermined criteria. The detailed operational description of
this sub-component can be found in the PIM.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of II
COMPONENT 3: EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
US$2.4 million (total cost of component)
23.   Objectives. This component aims to promote management improvement in areas
of critical concern to MOE, especially human and financial resources, and to prepare
conditions for future education projects and provide support to the PCU. Within the
perspective of this project, and after consideration of several alternatives, a selective
strategy was identified for institutional strengthening and removing operational
bottlenecks. Efforts will focus, therefore, on making viable a mechanism for the timely
payment of teachers' salaries (a sine qua non condition for school functioning), installing
an effective human and financial management system, assessing MOE structure and
organization, gathering the information for further developments in the sector, and
supporting the PCU as a direct manager and an instrument of technology transfer. This
component consists of three sub-components:
Sub-component 1: Human and Financial Resources
24.   Description. The sub-component will help the Government upgrade some critical
services, the deficiencies in which have seriously hampered the efficiency and daily
operation of the education system. The selective approach has focused on the following
elements:
(a) A Human Resource Management System will be developed and implemented at the
MOE central and regional levels to handle the core functions required for the teacher
and auxiliary personnel recruitment, deployment, evaluation, and the orderly follow-
up of their professional advance and performance. To this end, the individual files
available at EMIS will be improved and periodically updated.
(b) Timely Salary Payment Fund (TSPF): The Government will set up an appropriate
financial mechanism to solve the existing problem of timely salary payment. To this
end, a "Buffer Account" will be set up and financed by the Government with an
amount equivalent to one month of all teachers' salaries (primary and secondary
levels). The Government will seek to complement this account in an equal amount
from donors. The project will support activities to monitor the TSPF.
(c) Budgeting System: Budget control procedures will be established at MOE (with
technical assistance provided by the EU) for recurrent and non-recurrent costs,
specifying expenditures by education level, region, and key financial categories.
(d) Staff Training: MOE staff at the central Administration and Finance Directorates and
Regional Directorates will develop practical expertise in public accounting and file
management techniques.
(e) Office Equipment: MOE administrative and financial Directorates will be equipped
with computer systems and appropriate furniture.



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of II
25.  Implementation Arrangements.  More than anywhere else in the project,
Government compliance with some macro-policy commitments is germane to this
component. The Government, therefore, will ensure that budgetary allocations to the
education sector will gradually and sustainably rise from 12.2% of 1996 expenditures,
excluding interest payments, to 15% in 1997 and 16% in 1998. The share of primary
education in the total education sector public spending will also increase. Specific targets
will be established under the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 1997-2000, and the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), agreed upon between the Government and the World
Bank.
26.   Office equipment will be procured by the PCU. National and international
consultants will be hired following IDA procedures. One of the PCU assistants will be in
charge of closely following up implementation of this component and particularly the
mechanism for the TSPF for teachers.
Sub-component 2: Preparatory and Prospective Studies
27.   Description. Project objectives include preparing "the system for further and
more ambitious interventions in the near future" and establishing a sector policy
framework. Consensus exists that some institutional weaknesses involving
organizational, curricular, and operational matters need to be addressed on a pilot and
prospective basis before any general and meaningful decisions can be made. Three
elements or groups of elements have been identified as deserving such a preparatory
approach:
(a) Assessment ofMOE's Organizational and Functional Structure will be carried out to
identify the major daily operational bottlenecks, raise awareness about modern
management techniques, and make recommendations for the next education
development project. An assessment of the teacher career statute will also be carried
out to provide recommendations for its financial feasibility and implementation.
(b) Development of two Pilot Studies: (i) an integrated (grades 1-6) basic education
curriculum, established by the MOE but not yet tested in the field; and (ii) a
feasibility study of an alternative pre-service teacher training program, including
assessment of the existing Normal Schools.
(c) Development of a Study on alternative models of school construction to be considered
in the design of future education projects.
28.  Implementation Arrangements. National and international consultants will be
hired following IDA procedures and the studies will involve the relevant MOE
directorates and units. Detailed arrangements for the operation of this sub-component
can be found in the PIM.



ANNEX 2
Page II of 11
Sub-component 3: Project Coordination Unit
29.   Description. Under MOE responsibility and leadership, the PCU will operate in a
cooperative management framework based on the following elements:
(a) Implementation of Activities. Most project activities will be carried out by MOE's
Directorates and other agencies with recognized implementation capacity, such as
CENFA and selected NGOs.
(b) PCU and its Functions. The PCU will play the crucial role of planning, managing the
credit resources, monitoring, and continuing assessment, emphasizing an attitude of
cooperation and encouragement. The PCU will promote internal MOE coordination
as well as inter-agency cooperation related to other projects, addressing the same or
complementary project objectives and activities. The PCU will be responsible for the
adequate and timely implementation of each and every project component. The PCU
will be responsible for managing the Special Account, procurement, project
monitoring and evaluation, as well as accounting and auditing of Government and
IDA funds.
(c) PCU Composition. To fuilfill its role adequately, the PCU will have the following
composition: a Coordinator, a Planning and Institutional Development Assistant, a
Technical/Pedagogical Development Assistant, a Civil Works Technical Assistant; a
Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, an Accountant Assistant, and an
Administrative Assistant. All these positions will be filled by professionals selected
on the basis of their technical skills and experience, following selection procedures
acceptable to IDA. Where suitable candidates do not exist locally, contracts would be
offered internationally.
(d) A Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be created to provide PCU with broad
institutional support and help it plan and evaluate both the project's and its own
programs and activities, according to the agreed upon terms of reference. The PSC
will have representatives of the major project participants -- the MOE Central and
Regional Directorates, NGOs, and community organizations -- as well as
representatives from other projects related to basic education.
30.   Implementation Arrangements. The PCU will follow a detailed PIM in its
operations and activities that will explain, in operational terms, procedures, conditions,
methodology, targets, and deadlines for each of the components, sub-components, and
elements.  The PIM  will become the key and uniforn  point of reference for
implementation activities carried out by all the project implementing MOE units and
related agencies at different levels. PIM preparation is the responsibility of MOE, with
support provided by the Bank; its final version (in Portuguese) is one of the conditions for
effectiveness.






ANNEX 3
Page I of I
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                               Local        Foreign        Total
US$ '000
I.   Basic Education Access
(i) basic education infrastructure             1,135.1       6,098.6       7,233.6
(ii) education planning and management system     95.6         453.8          549.4
(iii) girls' schooling                             28.1         159.0         187.0
Subtotal                                         1,258.8       6,711.4       7,970.0
II.  Basic Education Quality
(i) textbooks and pedagogical materials          736.3       4,186.1       4,922.4
(ii) in-service teacher training                  174.8       1,018.2       1,193.0
(iii) education pilot initiatives                 202.2         246.0         448.2
Subtotal                                         1,113.3       5,450.3       6,563.6
III. Education Management
(i) human and financial resource organization     38.9         220.5         259.4
(ii) preparatory studies                          83.3         471.9          555.1
(iii) project coordination unit                   272.8        1,097.3       1,370.1
Subtotal                                          395.0        1,789.7       2,184.6
Total                                            2,767.1      13,951.4      16,718.2
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                        108.9         614.2         723.0
Price Contingencies                           235.4       1,140.2       1,375.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               3,111.4      15,705.8      18,816.7






ANNEX 4
Page I of 3
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
1.    Background.  Two scenarios and accompanying financial simulations were
developed with officials of MOE. The "with-project scenario" was compared to the
"without-project scenario" where: (a) the internal efficiency of the system remained the
same as in 1997; and (b) the admission rate remained constant over the period of analysis
(the complete economic analysis can be found in the project files). These two scenarios
provide the basis on which to compare different effectiveness indicators. The project
goals are relatively modest and very realistic. The periods used for the analysis were:
project implementation (1997 - 2000), and project benefits to be fully realized (2001 -
2005).
2.    Cost-Effectiveness Indicators. The three indicators selected for the analysis were:
(i) gross enrollment rate (GER); (ii) unit costs (cost per student per year); and
(iii) internal efficiency (hypothetical cost per graduate after fourth and sixth grades).
Increase in the GER is the main policy goal of MOE. However, it does not take into
consideration the efficiency of the system nor the costs. The cost per student is the sum
of the total direct recurrent cost of primary education per pupil in each grade plus the
depreciated value of construction and equipment. The cost per graduate was constructed
using the unit cost for the year of graduation multiplied by the number of schooling years
needed for the system to produce a graduate. This is higher than the actual costs incurred
for any one graduate because it incorporates the costs of students who drop out before
graduating. Thus it captures best the efficiency gains in the system.
3.    Main Assumptions. The analysis assumed that: (i) MOE's wage policy would not
change; (ii) all new teachers would be hired on 9-month contracts (as opposed to 12
months for current, regular staff); (iii) maintenance expenditures would be costed at 3%
of construction costs per year; (iv) depreciation of classroom construction and equipment
is estimated to take place over 25 and 10 years, respectively, at a discount rate of 10%.
Direct school costs incurred by parents have not been included in the analysis as they are
supposed to be fully compensated by private returns to basic education.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Table A: Comparison of Annual Costs with and without the Project
(1997 US$)
Cost per pupil/year           Cost per graduate
4th grade           6th grade
Without    With    Without    With    Without    With
project   project   project   project   project   project
1997      38.2      38.8      263       267       482       489
1998      38.0      38.5      261       258       479       472
1999      37.8      38.0      260       246       477       445
2000      37.6      37.3      259       239       475       416
2001      37.5      37.2      258       234       473       410
2002      37.4      36.9      257       225       473       384
2003      37.4      36.3      257       216       472       360
2004      37.3      35.8      357       208       471       341
2005      37.2      35.3      256       200       470       325
4.    Project Results. Cost-effectiveness indicators demonstrate  a significant
improvement as a result of the project. However, unit costs do not start to decline until
the third year of the project because of the costs associated with operating the project.
The introduction of policies to improve quality and the selective expansion of new classes
results in a rapid improvement in internal efficiency since it takes fewer years to produce
graduates at both the fourth and sixth grades. By the end of 2005, the cost per pupil is
expected to be 5.2% less than without the project and the cost per graduate would be 22%
lower at the 4th grade and 31% lower at the 6th grade. Moreover, the gross enrollment
rate with the project would be 78%, compared to 63% without the project and there
would be more children educated (193,000 instead of 156,000). The total costs of the
project, from the point of view of the Government and donors, would be matched by
accumulated cost savings by 2010, at which time the unit costs and costs per graduate
would be substantially lower than without the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Table B: Cost-Effectiveness Indicators
(end of 2005)
Without       With      % change
Project     Project    with project
Gross enrollment rate                  63%          78%          22%
Cost per student/year (I1-6 grdes)   US$37.20    US$35.30        -5.1
Average no. of years per graduated     6.88         5.67        -17.6
4th grader (1)
Total cost by graduated 4th grader  US$255.99   US$200.15       -21.8
Average no. of years per graduated     12.62        9.20         -27.1
6th grader (l)
Total cost by graduated 6th grader  US$469.46   US$324.76       -30.8
(1) Number of student/years multiplied by the student/year cost
for the graduating year
5.    Sensitivity Analysis. The results were not very sensitive to changes in
assumptions. The "with-project" costs per student rose marginally from US$35.3 to
US$35.8 when new teachers were not hired on nine-month contracts. Changing this
assumption, the most significant one, did not alter efficiency improvements.
6.    Fiscal Impact. The implications of the project on the Government's recurrent
expenditures until 2005 were estimated and are summarized in Annex 5. Expenditures
for 1997 included arrears from 1995 and 1996. Expenditures for secondary education
were estimated to increase by 2.5% annually, corresponding to the increase in graduates
from sixth grade. It was estimated that total education expenditures without the project
would have increased from 15.1% in 1997 to 17.2% in 2005 due to increases in the
school population and the normal projected increase in enrollment rates. With the
project, education expenditures are forecast to increase from 15.4% in 1997 to 17.9% in
2005. The lower fiscal cost without the project would be for a fewer number of graduates
produced at a higher unit cost than with the project. The net fiscal burden imposed by the
project would amount to only 0.7% of total Government expenditure net of interest
payments, a fiscal impact that can be reasonably absorbed by the economy.






ANNEX 5
Page I of I
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Table A: Financial Summary
Financial Summary                     Implementation Period            Operational Period
(in  US$  million)__ _              __ _  __ _   __ _  __ ___                _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Project Cost                  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 2002  2003  2004  2005
Investment Costs            2.00  4.35  6.35  4.30  1.31  18.31
Incremental Recurrent Costs    0.05  0.13  0.13  0.13  0.07  0.51
Total             2.05  4.48  6.48  4.43  1.37  18.82   --
Sources of Financing                  Implementation Period            Operational Period
(% of total cost)
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001         2002  2003  2004  2005
IDA                            36    50    94    92    98
Government                      0     5     6      8     2
SIDA                           64    45    0      0      0
Total             100   100   100   100   100                       _
Table B: Project Impact on MOE Budget
Projected Education
Recurrent Budget
without project                 with project
Projected Govt.
PrjeceGv.Share of                                                 Share of
Recurrent Budget    US$ million   Education        US$ million   Education (%)
US$ million
1997          24.31*             3.68            15.1           3.75           15.4
1998          22.37              3.39            15.2           3.47           15.5
1999          22.30              3.47            15.6           3.56           16.0
2000          22.22               3.55           16.0           3.60            16.2
2005           22.22              3.83           17.2           3.98            17.9
* Including teacher salary payment arrears from the 1996 budget.






ANNEX 6
Page I of 6
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
1.      The  procurement  methods  applicable  to  the  various  expenditure  categories  are
summarized in Table A.
Table A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
TOTAL COST
Expenditure Category            ICB        NCB       Other a   Consultant   N.B.F. tincing
_______ __  ____ ______  _______ __  ____ ______contingencies)
1. Civil Works
a. Rehab. & New Construction                   6.28       0.05                                   6.33
(5.93)     (0.04)                                (5.97)
b. Small Repairs & Maintenance                                                    0.62 c         0.62
(0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods
a. Pedagogic Equipment              0.38                  0.07                    0.18 d         0.62
(0.38)                (0.04)                  (0.00)         (0.42)
b. Office Equipment                 0.12       0.08        0.10                                  0.30
(0.12)     (0.08)     (0.10)                                 (0.30)
c. Vehicle                         0.13                                                          0.13
(0.13)                                                       (0.13)
d. Furniture                                   0.37        0.02                   0.79 d         1.18
(0.37)     (0.02)                 (0.00)         (0.39)
3. Texbooks & Ped. Materials           1.06                   0.12                    1.54 d        2.72
2                                 (1.06)                 (0.12)                 (0.00)         (1.18)
4. Consultant Services
a. International Consultants                                          1.83        0.39 d         2.22
(1.83)     (0.00)         (1.83)
b. National Consultants                                                1.31       0.28 d         1.59
(1.31)     (0.00)         (1.31)
5. i raining
a. Local training                                         0.09                                  0.09
(0.09)                                (0.09)
b. In-service Training                                    1.58                    0.26 d        1.84
(1.58)                 (0.00)         (1.58)
c. Study Tours                                            0.12                                  0.12
(0.12)                                (0.12)
6. Pilot operations                                           0.30                                  0.30
(0.30)                                (0.30)
7. Incremental Operating Costs
a. Operating costs e                                      0.47                                  0.47
(0.45)                                (0.45)
b. Support Service                                                                0.04          0.04
(0.00)        (0.00)
8. PPF                                                        0.26                                  0.26
(0.26)                                (0.26)
TOTAL                 1.68       6.73        3.17       3.13        4.10          18.82
(1.68)     (6.37)     (3.12)      (3.13)      (0.00)        (14.31)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA, including contingencies and excluding taxes
and duties. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
a   Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following Bank/IDA  guidelines,
expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA, direct purchasing of goods, and
community participation in work.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
b. Not financed by the IDA credit.
c. Financed by Govemment/EU.
d. Financed by SIDA.
e. Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of Project Implementation, management
and supervision, and School Publishing House (SPH) operation including office supplies, communication costs,
office machinery and vehicle maintenance, vehicle fuel and spare parts, office rent, and travel and allowances for
Project staff.
Procedures
2.    The proposed project will be financed through IDA, SIDA, and Government funds (the
latter including EU budgetary support). All Bank-financed procurement of goods and services
under the project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1, 1995, revised January and August 1996, and
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997. Preference
for domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
Other donor-financed procurement under the project will follow various donors' procedures.
3.    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA will be used for all
civil work and goods contracts that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$ 100,000.
NCB procedures will include: (a) explicit statement of the evaluation and award criteria in the
bidding documents; (b) national advertising with public bid opening and time allowed for the
preparation of bids not less than four weeks from the date of invitation to bid or the date of
availability of bidding documents, whichever is later; (c) award to the lowest evaluated bidder;
and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in NCB.
4.    International Shopping procedures in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the
Guidelines will be used for textbook contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$ 120,000. National Shopping procedures in accordance
with provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines will be used for works and goods estimated to
cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 200,000 equivalent.
5.    Pilot Initiative Operations: Contracts for pilot initiative operations involving small
contracts for works, goods, books, and pedagogical materials estimated to cost less than
US$ 15,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 300,000, will be based on initiatives and
contributions -- in the form of labor and material -- from communities. To be eligible for IDA
financing, pilot operations will have to meet criteria which are defined in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). It would be managed by an NGO selected on the basis of both
the quality of the proposal and the cost of the services to be provided. The NGO will use
procurement procedures described in the PIM, acceptable to IDA. Procedures include the
following: (a) Small civil works contracts will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors
invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total price or on the unit prices. The invitation
shall include reference unit prices established by the PCU or an engineer, a detailed description
of the agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work or supplies,
provided he demonstrates that he has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully; (b) Goods, and books and pedagogical materials will be procured in accordance
with procedures agreed upon for National Shopping; and (c) Consulting Services will be
procured through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment
or approached directly.
Table B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
(in US$ equivalent)
Methods                                Prior Review
Categories        ICB              NCB                    Other                 by IDA
Civil works       N/A           Above 50,000          Below 50,000           Above 100,000
(Aggregate 6,280,000)   (Aggregate 40,000)Abv10,0
Goods (incl.: Office    Above     Between 50,000          Below 50,000
equip, vehicle,    Above          and 100,000        (Aggregate 160,000)       Above 100,000
furniture)                  (Aggregate 450,000)
Textbooks & Pedag.    Above                               Below 100,000
Materials       100,000            N/A                 Inter./Shop.          Above 100,000
(Aggregate 120,000)
TOR for all contracts.
Above 75,000: QCBS.   Selection & contracts for:
Consultant Services   N/A              N/A           Below 75,000: see para 6   (a) Firms above 75,000;
below          (b) Individ. above 35,000;
and (c) sole sources.
All contracts with
Pilot Initiatives (Sub-                                                          .conties wib
projects with                                          Below 15,000         communities will be
Community          N/A              N/A             (Aggregate 300,000)    subject to prior review
Participation                                                             during the first 2 years of
the Pilot Initiative
*   Prior review is also required for the first NCB contracts for goods and works each project year,
regardless of the amount, and for the terns of reference for all consultants, including studies and training.
6.     For selection of consultants, procedures based on Quality and Cost will be used for all
contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 75,000. Short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less
than US$ 75,000 may comprise entirely national consultants when there is a sufficient number of
qualified firms at competitive costs. Least-Cost Selection may be used for Audit services
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000. Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications may be
used for services to carry out studies on school construction system, gender policy and programs,
textbook production and distribution, and to collect and analyze statistical data and school
mapping, provided that estimated contract values do not exceed US$ 75,000. The training
program management contract estimated to cost less than US$ 75,000 may be awarded to
CENFA on a single-source basis; CENFA is the only organization which has the relevant



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
qualification including an extended network throughout ihe country alnd experience for this kind
of assignment. Consultant services including foreign and local ad hoc expertise and contractual
services -- for which individual qualification and experience are the paramount requirement for
the assignment -- will be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Documents
7.     The following documents will guide the procurement activities:
-      For ICB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents.
-      For NCB: Standard bidding documents based on Bank's SBD -- reviewed and finalized
before effectiveness.
-      For Consultants: Bank's standard forms of contracts; standard requests for proposals.
-      Other documents include: Bank's standard bid evaluation form and standard general
and specific procurement notices.
Measures to improve MOE's procurement capacity
8.     The Project Coordinator will have experience in management and Bank procedures.
Procurement Specialist will be recruited to provide technical assistance to the PCU in handling
all procurement matters, related to works, goods, and services and will be assisted as needed by
specified consultants for the preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation. Training of
MOE procurement staff and PCU staff in Bank procurement procedures and documents will be
carried out. Standard procurement processing timetables were finalized at negotiations (see
PIM). Procurement processing will be carried out according to agreed standard processing times.
9.     A specialist, who would normally be a national architect or engineer, will be recruited
into the PCU to be exclusively in charge of the execution of the civil works component. This
would include:  (i) work in collaboration with the education planning and infrastructure
departments for the identification of sites and building requirements; (ii) monitor the preparation,
normally by private local firms, of site plans for every identified location and using the standard
design for classrooms; (iii) collaboration with the procurement specialist to prepare the
packaging and related bidding documents for the works, evaluate offers received and assist in the
preparation of contracts; and (iv) supervise and monitor certification of works carried out by a
team of contractual technicians located in the regions. To avoid repeated disturbances of school
operations, packaging of civil works contracts will cover all works required at a given site
including rehabilitation and new construction.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
Disbursement
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs):
10.   SOEs will be used for payments pertaining to:
-      Contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent for works and goods.
-      Consultant contracts of less than US$ 75,000 and US$ 35,000 for firms and individuals,
respectively.
Special Account
11.   Special Account will be denominated in US Dollars.
-      Authorized allocation of US$ 500,000.
-      Initial deposit in a commercial bank of US$ 300,000 upon effectiveness will increase to
US$ 500,000 once disbursement and commitments reach SDR 2.5 million.
-      Direct payment: minimum application amount above 20% of Special Account deposit.
12.   Disbursement categories and percentages financed are shown in Table C below:
Table C: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category         (in US$ million)         Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                            5.41                 100% of foreign and
95% of local expenditures
2. Goods                                  0.74                1100% of foreign and
2.______Goods _________0.74_______                           95%  of local expenditures
3. Textbooks and Pedagogical Materials    1.34                 100% of foreign and
95% of local expenditures
4. Consultant services                    2.83                       100%
5. Training                               1.61                       100%
6. Pilot Initiative Operations            0.27                       95%
7. Operational costs                      0.41                       95%
8. Unallocated                            1.44                         --
9. PPF                                    0.26
Total financed by IDA                     14.31
13.     Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs,
office machinery and vehicle maintenance, vehicle fuel and spare parts, office rent, and travel
and allowances for Project staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil
service.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
Project Accounts and Auditing
14.    The project accountant will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices acceptable to IDA.
15.    An annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate opinion with respect to the
Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account prepared by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA, and in accordance with the Bank document, "Financial Account Reporting and Auditing
Handbook," of January 1995, will be submitted to IDA no more than six months after completion
for each fiscal year.



ANNEX 7
Page I of I
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                                     Actual
US$ 199.5 Bank
Budget
US$ 595.0 Trust
Funds
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                   Actual
Pre-appraisal     Sep. 1996         Jan. 1997
Appraisal          Jan. 1997        Jan. 1997
Negotiations     April 1997      April 28, 1997
Board Approval   June 1997
Time taken to prepare the project (14 months)
First Bank mission (identification)                March 1996                03/16/1996
Appraisal mission departure                         Jan. 1997                 01/19/97
Negotiations                                        April 1997               04/28/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     October 1997
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: Bank Budget, Swiss, Norwegian, Portuguese, and PHRD (Japanese) Trust Funds.
Bank staffwho worked on the project included:
Core team members: Carmen E. Perez-Castafio, General Educator, Task Team Leader; Slahedinne Ben-
Halima, Senior Operations Officer; Rudi Chevannes, Task Team Assistant (AFTH2). Consultants:
Andre C. Tolentino (Institutional Development); Ant6nio G. Pereira (Education Planning and Project
Programming); Emesto Toro Balart (Education Assessment); Farid Abillama (Education Finances);
Gabriel Carceles (Information System and Education Data); Jose S. Femandes (Financial Management).
Extended team: Rosemary Bellew, Education Planner (AFTH2); Sakhevar Diop, Senior Education
Specialist (AFTH3); Jennifer Edwards, Projects Officer (AFTII); Marcelo Andrade, Country Economist
(AFTM5); Bernard Abeille, Senior Procurement Specialist (AFTS2); Marcos Sugar, Senior Disbursement
Officer (LOAAF); Kishor Uprety, Counsel (LEGAF); Myrina McCullough, Program Assistant (AFTH2);
Marina Rovatti, Administrative Assistant (AFTC4); Angela K. L. Hewitt, Administrative Assistant
(AFTC4); Pushpa N. Schwartz (Editor).
Lead Adviser: Himelda Martinez, Principal Education Specialist (ASTHR); Peer Reviewers: Jacomina de
Regt, Principal Operations Officer (AFTS I); Ward Heneveld, Senior Educator (LASHD).



t~~~~~~~



Annex 8
Page I of I
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Basic Education Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Manual
Will be available on project effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessment
1. Composante des Manuels Scolaires de la Phase A du Projet propose pour le redressement du
Systeme Educatif de la Guinee-Bissau. Octobre 1996.
C. Other
1. Rapport Resume des donnees de base rassemblees. Dans le cadre de la mission
d'identification du projet, par Gabriel Carceles, Consultant. Juin 1996.
2. L'Enseignement de base en Guinee-Bissau: tendances recentes et alternatives plausibles, par
Gabriel Carceles, Consultant. Juin 1996.
3. Financiamento do sector educativo e projec,6es de custos da educacao, por Farid P.
Abillama, Consultor. Outubro 1996.
4. Projet d'Appui a l'enseignement de base: Analyse Economique, par Farid P. Abillama,
Consultant. Avril 1997.
5. Lo que se aprende en Portugues y Matematicas al finalizar la cuarta clase en Guinea-Bissau:
Estudio en una muestra de 15 escuelas en tres regiones del pais, por Ernesto Toro. Julio
1996.
6. Avaliacao da Aprendizagem na 4a classe em 15 escolas nas regioes de Gabu, Quinara e
Cacheu. Ibrahima Djall6, Augusto Pereira e Joaquim Namoni. Julho 1996.
7. Revisao da Reforma Curricular. Marcelina Santos Ba. Outubro 1996.
8. Relat6rio da pesquisa em Mdtodo Activo de Investiga,co Participativa sobre infraestruturas e
sanitarios escolares. AIFA-PALOP. Margo 1997.
9. Orientac6es Gerais para o ano lectivo 1996/97. Ministerio da Educa,co. Agosto 1996.
10. Banco de Dados: Estatisticas computadorizadas incluindo 4 ficheiros: alunos, pessoal,
localizacao de escolas por regiao e mobiliario. Outubro 1996.
11. Lista Nominal do Pessoal do Ministerio da Educa9co. Minist*rio da Educacao, Ministerio da
Funcao Publica e Trabalho, e Ministerio das Finan,as. Outubro 1996.
12. Depuracao de dados da lista de pessoal. Relat6rio Sintese, por MArio Nasolini e Mamadu
Saliu Djassi. Outubro 1996.
13. 0 regresso a actividade docente ou paradocente de 50% dos professores destacados para
cumprir tarefas de natureza administrativa, por Andre Corsino Tolentino e Jose Santos
Fernandes, Consultores. Julho 1996.
14. Proposta de mecanismo de Pagamento das Remunerag6es dos Professores em dia certo, por
Andre Corsino Tolentino e Jose Santos Fernandes, Consultores. Julho 1996.
15. Fundo Permanente para o Pagamento Atempado de Professores. Ministdrio da Educa9ao
Nacional. Abril 1997.
16. Carta dos objectivos do Programa de Apoio a Educacao Basica 1997-2001 na Guine-Bissau
dirigida pelo Exmo. Sr Paulo Silva, Ministro da Educa9ao, ao Presidente do Banco Mundial,
Exmo. Sr. James D. Wolfensohn, 23 de Abril de 1997.
17. Processo Verbal das Missoes de Pre-Identifica9ao (Margo 1995); Identifica9Ro (Margo 1996);
Preparacao (Junho e Outubro 1996); e, Avalia9&o (Fevereiro 1997).
* Including electronic files.






Generaed: May 13,1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea-Bissau
I:BRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of 30-Apr-97)
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                        Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      and expected
Project ID  Credit No.   Year                Borrower                    Purpose             IBRD          IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Disbursements a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 19
GW-PE-1000   C22370          1991   REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU   ENERGY                            0.00       15.15             0.00           6.22                5.52
GW-PE-1011   C23420          1992   REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               0.00        7.20             0.00           2.33                1.97
GW-PE-1002   C24650          1993   REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU  SOCIAL                             0.00        8.80             0.00           3.06                2.48
GW-PE-35915  C27480          1995   REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU  TRANSP.& URBAN INFRA               0.00       22.00             0.00          11.22                1.72
Total                                                                                             0.00       53.15             0.00          22.83
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    28.94               174.44              203.38
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 3.55                 3.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    53.15               161.64              214.79
Amount sold                      :                  0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                 22.83                 0.00               22.83
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, 'Implementation Progress' will be reported here.
0
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Generated: May 13, 1997
Guinea-Bissau
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-97
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
~~IFC                                 IFC   C
FY             Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1994     AEF Agribissau               .75      .09    0.00    0.00    .75       .09   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments



Annex 10
Guinea-Bissau at a glance                                                   Page 1 of 2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Guinea- Saharan      Low-
Bissau    Africa  Income      Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                         1.1      589    3,188
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                              240      490       460                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                                0.3      289     1,466    i
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (I%)                                        2.0       2.8      1.8    |
Labor force (%)                                          .,      2.8      1.8      GNP                             Gross
estimate                                             ~~~~~                  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~per  ,primary
Most recent esUmate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (%Y of population)             49
Urban populaton (% of total population)                 22       31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        44       52        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               138       92        58
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              ..        ..       38                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  25       47        75
illiteracy (%6 of population age 15+)                   74       43        34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   50       71       105            -     Guinea-Bissau
Male                                                  64       77       112                  Low-income group
Female                                                35       64        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     1994      1995
1Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                            0.1      0.2       0.2      0.3              r
Gross domestc investmenttGDP                 15.4     32.0      21.8     22.3
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP  5.2      8.9      19.3     14.3               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   -5.4     -2.9       2.6      0.1
Gross national savings/GDP                   -3.1     -3.9       7.0      5.4
Current account balance/GDP                    ,,   -44.6    -20.5    -24.4
Interest paymentslGDP                          ..      1.4       1.6      1.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debtWGDP                                7.2    197.2    360.3    351.0
Total debt service/exports                     ,,    46.3       16.3     29.6
Present value of debUGDP                       ..
Present value of debtVexports                  ..       ..
Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-96     1994     1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.9       3.7      3.1       4.4      4.2            -     Guinea-Bissau
GNP per capita                     -1.3       1.5      1,9       0.6      2.3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and nfs           -4.1      10.7     98.2    -22.0       4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1994      1995      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agrculture                                   47.8     42.4      55.6     52.5    '   C
Industry                                     25.4     14.3      20.1     11.6     40 -
Manufacturng                                  ,        ,,      0.0       0.0     20
Services                                     26.9     43.3      24.3     15.7      I   o
-20-    50   91   92  \93   94/ 95
Prvate consumption                           82.5     86.6     88.2      91.3    20                       \
General govemment consumption                22.9     16.4       9.1      8.7
Imports of goods and non-factor services     25.9     52.6      38.3     36.6              -      DI     G OP
(average annual growth)                 ,1975-4  1985-95       1994     1995      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  -2.9      3.6       5.4      6.6    100 -
Industry                                      3.5      2.9      2.1       2.6     so-
Manufacturing                                 .       2.1      2.4      2.4   !        -
Services                                      9.3      6.9      -3.8      2.7     20
Prvate consumption                            2.0      3.8      4.8       8.0   ;              9    9           94
General govemment consumption                 4.2     -0.9      9.0      -0.8       1
Gross domestic investment                     3.8      2.5    -27.2       6.7       -
Imports of goods and non-factor services      2.3     -3.1     -1.8      -7.0
Gross national product                        2.2      3.6      4.0       2.7                  xr      -Ip
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Guinea-Bissau
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domersttc prices                             1975     1985      1994      1995      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        i 0
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      15.2     45.4    !0
Implicit GDP deflator                         7.2      45.1     23.3      44.7      a
40-
Govemment finance                                                                   20-
(% of GDP)                                                                           0'
Current revenue                                 *-     27.5     27.1      29.0             90   91   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                         ..       4.3     12.6      13.7              -     GDP def.  -C--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -36.3       -8.4      -1.4    j
TRADE
(millions UISS)                                       1985      1994        95      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                            ..        0        33        24    -27
Groundnuts                                    ..        5       31        21i
Other food                                   3.                   0        0
Manufactures                                  *-        0        0         0
Total imports (ci)                              *       69        65        72     i 4
Food                                         ..        17       17        26
Fuel and energy                              ..         9        6         8
Capital goods                                 ..       13       15        15 
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..        ..       79       82    i       9   90  91  92  93   9    95
Importpnceindex(1987=100)                       ..       ..      120       134                -Exports      almjorts
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..        ..       66        61
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions USS)                              1975      1985      1994     1995      Current account balance to GOP rato (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                                             .0320  45  366-o
Imports of goods and non-factor services        ..      82        90       93       s  a9  90    1      92    5- 94  95
Resource balance                                ..     -62       -45       -57
Net factor income                               ..      -5        -2         7     20
Net current transfers                          ..       -4        -1         1
Current account balance,                                                         |30
before official transfers                     ..      -70      -48       -62      35
Financing items (net)                          ..       87        41       68      .0
Changes in net reserves                        ..      -17         7        -8 _                      -
Merno:                                                                                                       ---------
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            ..        ..       18       21
Conversion rate (tocat/lSS)                  41.4    160.0  12,892.0  18,073.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994     1995 
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            8      311       849       891
IBRD                                         0         0         0        0
IDA                                           0       44       197      210    ,G:40
F:2        8~~:210
Total debt service                              0        9         9        14
IBRO                                          0        0         0        0
IDA                                           0        0         2        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                    \           C: 3
Oftcial grants                                0        0         0        0
Offidal creditors                            8        38        13       13          E:459
Private creditors                            0        20         0        0    I
Foreign direct investment                    0         0         0        0                                  D: 177
Portfolio equity                             0         0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0         0         0        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0        15        11        9      B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0         0         1        1      c - IMF                     G - Shortterm
Netflows                                     0        15        11        8
Interest payments                            0         0         1        2
Net transfers                                0        14         9        7
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                   5/14/97



MAP SECTION



GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                  ENEGAL
0000  ~ ~                     / Dongol            ,~~"Dung/
.0~~~~~~0 ~
0 Ingur60  Borro     a        ~        ~        LI         0  nh6in
Vorelo  Susan      '    d- Doming-        10M '                                                                                ob/sido        ob
<0CCIe            S .                                                              oen,uo0 a"Oc.Mond
____  CACHEU     ¾       0                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Combor,sn0~C...b
0                                                                006s.Pnodn  C    0/se0  o
OCEAN                  C lnqnisse0 S0C- 0n900 0    0                                              Mls'1e4"'                                                                                                 12
12"  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~        tYE'K'                              1  ~ rsun                           cBomb,,U-c6
0                                                                               Cob.%                     G   U  I N   E A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pooqo  Qise
Gornq- Cono      Blcr                          '                                             Glmr                          -Bn0
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                    o"'~~                                         /00  GbA
REGION CAPITALS                                wsSAU   d'Enoudb                 0~~~~~~~~0~~ Porfo              oAloinbi                          BA1i0
~0/~Cooregrda                                   0Xtol                                  m.in do BoA
INTENTOALBUDRES                                                                                                        RA    N
CA~~~PA~~~F/A  K>   /     ~.da0Bo 6oob1i   mWOO  0 o                                                                               1A'
B I JAG A S  ~ ~ C)E0ATJA  "~  Pob cc " Clsngon'   ~~q~j~ooob6    /                                                       MAURITANIA 
~~57A  U                                i6          ...~~-   q 'U*  0   IR                                       SENEGAL
UO BOLAMA                                '~qbJ                ~          ~          /THE~.                                                                 M AL I
Uno               I/A                     I~
(DRANC\o qo./ GUNE                                                                                                    BSSU             GUINEA                      FS
an this map do 001                             TNWUP ~~~~~~~~~~CAVA/OS)' l~ A   I/R                               
TheWoldBak  rop,D'IVOIRE   Jo
or any endorsAment
or acceptance of such                ICKILOMETERS                                                                                     /
On                           16                                                           15'                                                                    tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EjlAX.~~~~o 
boundaries.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



