Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2960 GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 17, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2960-GUB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  July 17, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 23, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Kingdom of Sweden (Sweden) a grant 
(the Swedish Grant) in an amount approximately equivalent to $2,500,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
Swedish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Sweden; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Association or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an individual or group of individuals for whose 
benefit, a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) is proposed to be carried out or is 
carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria 
contained in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“First Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter, and Project Year means any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the subsequent 
Project Years; 
(c)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(d)
“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
Page  3
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 12, 1997 and June 6, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(f)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower, 
pursuant to Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement, for the purposes of carrying out the 
Project, containing inter alia, work programs, training programs, monitoring and 
performance indicators, implementation plan, and terms and conditions and eligibility 
criteria for Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(g)
“PCU” means Project Coordination Unit, established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(i)
“SPH” means School Publishing House, the Borrower’s publishing unit 
within MOH; 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(k)
“Sub-project” means a specific pilot activity financed, or to be 
financed, under Part B.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
Page  4
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2007 and ending April 15, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
Page  5
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to Association not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and (b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
Page  6
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Swedish Grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Association within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Swedish Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
(b)
the Borrower has established the PCU and appointed a coordinator, an 
accountant and a procurement specialist for the Project, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has established an administrative and financial system for 
the Project in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and 
(e)
the Borrower has appointed an auditor for the Project, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Av. Domingos Ramos
P. O. Box 67
Bissau
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By /s/ Rufino Mendes 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
              Amount of the
            Credit Allocated
     % of
             (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category
      SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
         3,970,000
       100% of foreign
                           expenditures and
                           95% of local
                           expenditures
(2)
Goods
                  540,000
       100% of foreign
Page  8
                           expenditures and
                           95% of local
                           expenditures
(3)
Books and
           980,000
       100% of foreign
Pedagogical
                    expenditures and
Materials
                    95% of local
                           expenditures
(4)
Consultants’
         2,080,000
       100%
services
(5)
Training
         1,180,000
       100% of foreign
                           expenditures and
                           95% of local
                           expenditures
(6)
Good and services
    200,000
       95%
under the
Sub-projects
(7)
Incremental
           300,000
       95%
Operating Costs
(8)
Refunding
           190,000
       Amount due
of Project
                    pursuant to
Preparation
                    Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
                    of this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
         1,060,000
TOTAL
              10,500,000
              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, communication, travel and supervision costs but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $75,000 equivalent; (iii) services of individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $35,000 equivalent; (iv) training; and (v) incremental 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve school facilities and 
teaching-learning process; (ii) increase the Borrower’s institutional capabilities in 
planning access to basic education; (iii) institute a mechanism for regular payment of 
teachers; (iv) improve human resources and financial management within the Borrower’s 
educational sector; and (v) prepare a policy framework for future programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Basic Education 
1.
Basic Infrastructure  
(a)
Construction or rehabilitation of about 570 classrooms including 
refurbishing thereof. 
(b)
Carrying out of routine maintenance operation in about 450 schools.
2.
Education Planning and Management System Establishment of an Education 
Management Information System (EMIS) including equipping of nine MOE regional 
directorates with information technology, establishment of a data bank, preparation of 
a school system map, upgrading of the MOE’s statistics services, and organization of 
in-service training seminars and workshops for the benefit of MOE staff.  
3.
Girls’ Education
Provision of technical advisory services, including training, in the designing 
of policy measures and action plans for the promotion of girls education.
Part B:
Improvement of Quality of Basic Education 
1.
Textbook and Pedagogical Materials 
(a)
Acquisition of textbooks, and instruction and pedagogical materials to 
students, and distribution thereof. 
(b)
Organization of a series of seminars for the benefit of teachers to 
introduce the content and methodological approaches included in the textbooks referred 
to in paragraph (a) above. 
2.
In-service Teacher 
Training Organization of a series of in-service-training programs for the 
benefit of teachers, including inter alia, re-activating and strengthening of teachers 
study committees, organization of regional technical teams, establishment of about 
nine teachers support units, designing and publication of a teachers’ handbook for 
levels 1-6, and designing of pilot studies on integrated 1-6 basic education 
curriculum and feasibility study on alternative pre-service teacher training program. 
3.
Pilot Initiatives Provision of technical advisory services and financial 
assistance to Beneficiaries, inter alia, to design, improve, maintain and disseminate 
local and school-based basic education-related pilot initiatives.
Part C:
Enhancement of Education Management 
1.
Human and Financial Resources 
(a)
Acquisition of equipment for the strengthening of MOE’s Administrative 
and Financial Directorates, and training of its staff in the area of public accounting 
and file management techniques. 
(b)
Development of a human resources management system and implementation 
thereof at MOE’s central and regional offices. 
(c)
Establishment of a budget control procedure within MOE 
Page  10
2.
Carrying out of a series of studies aimed at, inter alia, preparing pre-service 
training of teachers, enhancing integrated approach to basic education, evaluating the 
structure and functions of MOE and assessing the teachers’ career path and status. 
3.
Project Coordination Unit  Provision of technical advisory services and 
logistical assistance for the establishment, maintenance and operation of the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Section 
I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $130,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent per contract or more, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,570,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Textbooks estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent, and equipment, vehicles and 
furniture, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  11
paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Equipment, vehicles and furniture estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $90,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Textbooks and pedagogical materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent or less, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and procedures 
described in the Project Implementation Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part  B.3 of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants.
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  12
Services for audit estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for studies regarding the statistical yearbook, school mapping, gender 
policy, distribution of pedagogical materials and constructions/innovations, estimated 
to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training programs management which are estimated to cost less than 
$75,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 75,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$150,000, and each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in carrying 
out the Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual and shall not amend such Project Implementation Manual or waive  
any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than sixty days after the Effective Date, 
establish and thereafter maintain, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) for the purposes 
Page  13
of assisting the MOE in planning and assessing the activities carried out under the 
Project. The PSC  shall be chaired by the Borrower’s Minister of Education and shall 
consist of  representatives of national and regional level directorates of MOE and 
representatives of non-governmental organizations. The PSC shall convene at least 
three times a year. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause PCU to maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
qualified staff including, inter alia, a coordinator, three technical specialists, one 
procurement specialist, one accountant, one administrative assistant and other support 
staff in adequate numbers. The coordinator shall report directly to the Borrower’s 
Minister of Education.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 1999, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
5.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the existing 
organizational structure of SPH. 
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that salaries of teachers are paid in a timely and 
regular manner.  
7.
Sub-project (Part B.3 of the Project)
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project, apply the rules, procedures and 
eligibility criteria, specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
(b)
For the purpose of evaluating and approving a Sub-project, the Borrower 
shall establish a selection committee with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association. The said committee shall make the funds available to the Beneficiary in 
accordance with the guidelines and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, and in particular after examining the following: 
(i)
a detailed proposal with a plan of activities has been submitted 
by the 
Beneficiary; 
(ii)
the proposal is economically and technically feasible; 
(iii)
the Beneficiary contribution represents at least 5% of the total 
amount of the 
proposal; 
(iv)
the proposal is directly linked with educational quality, access 
to school, 
equity and management of the basic education; and 
(v)
the proposal is innovative, adequate and replicable in the 
Borrower’s educational 
system.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  14
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $300,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  15
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Expanding access to Basic Education
(a)
Increased number of new and rehabilitated classrooms.
(b)
Improved planning and management capacity.
(c)
Improved policy and program measures for girls’ schooling.
(d)
Increased use of textbooks and teaching/learning materials.
(e)
Reinforced technical support to school teachers and principals.
Enhancing Management
Page  16
(f)
Improved human resources and financial management.
(g)
Lessons learned from pilot initiatives and studies.
1.
Enrollment rates increased from 53% to 63% by end of the Project (EOP).
2.
Repetition rates in 1st and 2nd grades reduced from 35% to 26% by EOP.
3.
Action Plan to increase girls’ education approved by June 1998.
4.
Action Plan to expand coverage of grades 1-4 in rural areas approved by June 
1998.
(a)
Classrooms (new and rehabilitated) increased by 570.
(b)
MOE Central and Regional offices all using Data Bank in planning and 
managing sector operations.
(c)
Action Plan by June 1998 and implement project sub-components to carry 
out planned activities.
(d)
Students in grades 1-4 using textbooks in three basic subjects: 50% in SY 
1997-98; 65% in SY 98-99; 80% in SY 99-00; and 90% in SY 2000-01.
(e)
Teachers engaged in continuing in-service training: 20% in SY 97-98; 50% 
in SY 98-99; 75% in SY 99-00; and 100% in SY 2000-01.
(f)
Delays in teachers’ salary and allowance payments reduced to zero.
(g)
Reports produced to support strategic decision-making for next 
development stage.
