Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB2421 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);General public 
administration sector (25%);Compulsory pension and 
unemployment insurance (25%) 
Project ID 
P098376 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
June 5, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 31, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 5, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Panamanian Government’s new development strategy seeks to recapture momentum on the broad-
based reform agenda that was started in the second half of the 1990s.  At that time, trade barriers and 
price controls were largely dismantled, a far-reaching privatization program and anti-trust legislation 
were introduced, and fiscal adjustments coupled with debt reduction permitted Panama to regain the 
access to international financial markets that had been lost during the economic debacle that 
accompanied the Noriega regime in the 1980s.  Those reforms were supported by the Bank through 
several loans and various analytical reports.  After 1999, as the Moscoso administration distanced itself 
from the agenda of the preceding administration and further progress on broad-based reform was stalled. 
The Government also moved away from the Bank as a development partner, leaving much of the Bank’s 
previous Country Assistance Strategy (FY99-01) unimplemented, with no major analytical work carried 
out and a policy dialogue that shrank to a few areas covered by ongoing projects. 
 
The Torrijos Administration, which assumed office in September 2004, has reintroduced a broad-based 
reform agenda, restored near term fiscal equilibrium and has expressed interest in re-engaging the World 
Bank.  Beginning with the passage of major fiscal and pension system reforms in 2005, the government 
also unveiled a medium-term development strategy that emphasizes fiscal discipline, transparency and 
improved efficiency as important elements for accelerating growth, creating more jobs and reducing 
poverty.  In mid-2005, the Government initiated discussions with the World Bank on a select program of 
activities in support of the Government’s strategy, with a heavy emphasis on analytical work.  These 
discussions resulted in an initial two-year assistance program described in the Interim Strategy Note 
(ISN) for Panama (FY06-07), which was discussed at the Board in October 2005. 
 
The proposed DPL represents an important step in the development of a longer-term results-based 
partnership between the World Bank and Panama in the context of this assistance program.
 
It seeks to 
support the Government’s public finance reform program, which is a corner-stone of its broad-based 
medium-term development plan.  Following on the recent preparation of the Public Expenditure Review 
(PER) the Poverty Assessment (PA) and Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment 
Report (CPAPAR), the proposed DPL provides a vehicle for deepening World Bank-Panama policy 
discussions.  If successful, this DPL and other elements of the ISN could become the building blocks for 
Page  2
a
more comprehensive results framework in a new Country Partnership Strategy for FY08-10, possibly 
including a programmatic series of DPLs. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan (DPL) is to 
support of the implementation of the initial phase of the Panamanian government’s new development 
program, as described in its Strategic Vision document.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This proposed DPL would be a stand alone, single-tranche operation is based on passage and 
implementation of fiscal stabilization and public financial management reforms which will achieve 
substantial measurable outcomes by the end of 2006.  It is also designed to facilitate a policy dialogue 
with the Panamanian authorities and establish a framework that may eventually be followed up with 
future DPLs under a programmatic framework, after the completion of a new CAS in FY2007.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
As the operation would focus on fiscal policies at the macro level, no significant environmental impact 
is expected 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
60 
 Total 
60 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ulrich Lachler 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 786-276-1273 
Fax: (202) 676-9135 
Email: Ulachler@worldbank.org 
Location: Miami, FL (IBRD)
 
