                                               Documentof
                                            The World Bank




                                                                              ReportNo. 36943-PA



      INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSEDLOAN


                     INTHEAMOUNT EQUIVALENTTO US$60MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                                 FORA

      PUBLIC FINANCEAND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT POLICYLOAN


                                            September 8,2006




CentralAmerica CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion
InternationalBankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment




This document has a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 PANAMA GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                             -
                           January 1-December 31

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as of August 29,2006)

                    Currency Unit              Balboa
                       US$1.oo                 B./1.OO

                           Weights andMeasures
                                Metric System

                  ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS

BIS            Baseline indicators system
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CPS            Country Partnership Strategy
CFAPAR         Country FinancialAccountability and Procurement Assessment Report
CFZ            Colon Free Zone
CGR            Controller General o f the Republic
css            Social Security Institute (Caja de Seguvo Social)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
DCP            Public Procurement Directorate inMEF
DPL            Development Policy Loan
GNI            Gross National Income
IBRD           InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IFC            InternationalFinance Corporation
IMF            InternationalMonetary Fund
LDP            Letter o f Development Policy
MDGs           Millennium Development Goals
MEF            MinistryofEconomyandFinance
MTEF           Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NFPS           Non-Financial Public Sector
OECD            Organization for Economic Cooperationand Development
PanamaCompra   Public e-Procurement system
PBL            Policy-based loan
PEFA           Public Expenditure and FinancialAccountability
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PFM            Public Financial Management
ROSC           Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
SDR             Special DrawingRights
SIAFPA         Integrated financial management system
SPIG           Presidential Secretariat for GovernmentInnovation
UNDP           UnitedNations Development Program

                       Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:     Jane Armitage
                      Sector Director:    Ernest0 M a y
                  Task Team Leaders:      UlrichLachler and Jessica Poppele

                                                        PANAMA
    PUBLIC FINANCEANDINSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                                          TABLE OFCONTENTS


LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                                                                                                1
I          INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                               2
I1
 ..                               ........................................................................................................
                                                 ..........................................................................................
            COUNTRY CONTEXT
                A. Recent Economic and Political Developments..................................................
                                            ...............................................................................................           3

                B. Panama's Public FinanceFramework................................................................                                   4
                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                      8
I11.            C. Key Aspects of Public Financial Management inPanama
           THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                    .......................................................................
                                                                                                                  ................................
                A. The Fiscaland PensionReformProgram..........................................................                                       10
                                                                                                                                                      11
                B. Programto ImproveFiscal Transparency andPublic Management..................14
                C. Debt SustainabilityAnalysis and MediumTerm Prospects..............................                                                 19
I V
  .         THE PROPOSEDPUBLICFINANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL DPL
                A Linkto the InterimStrategy Note andFuture Country Partnership Strategy
                  .                                                                                                                 .................21
                                                                                                                                                  ....21
                B. OperationDescription             ........................................................................................          23

                D. LessonsLearned
                C. Expected Outcomes and Medium-Term Government Objectives .....................                                                      24

                E. Collaboration with the IMFandOther Donors..................................................
                                           ................................................................................................           26

                F. Analytical Underpinnings ..................................................................................                        27
                                                                                                                                                      27
                                                                                                                                                      28
V .             G. Consultations .....................................................................................................
            OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                                  ........................................................................
                A. Poverty and SocialImpacts ...............................................................................                          28

                B. Implementation, Monitoringand Evaluation.                               ....................................................       28
                                                                                                                                                      29
                                             ..............................................................................................
                D Disbursements...................................................................................................
                C. Fiduciary Aspects
                  .                                                                                                                                   29

                                                      ......................................................................................          29

                F. ExpectedBenefits...............................................................................................
                E. Environmental Aspects                                                                                                              30
                                                                                                                                                      30
                G Risks andRiskMitigation
                  .                                        .................................................................................          30

                                                         ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Letterof DevelopmentPolicy(original inSpanish andtranslationinto English)                                                               ......32
ANNEX 2: PanamaDevelopmentPolicyLoan.
            FinanceReform      ............................................................................................................
                                                                    PreliminaryResultsFrameworkfor Public
                                                                                                                                                      33
ANNEX 3: MainMeasures of the 2005 FiscalReform(Law 6)                                                                                                 36
ANNEX 4: FundRelationsNote (March 2006)                          ............................................................................
                                                                                             ..................................................
ANNEX 5: The Public PolicyReformTechnicalAssistance Project                                             .........................................     37

ANNEX 6: The Programto StrengthenandMordanizeEconomic andFiscalMangement 42                                                                        ...41
ANNEX 7: The InvestmentClimateand TradeAdjustment Program
                                    ......................................................................................................
                                                                                                           ......................................     43
ANNEX 8: Pamanaat a glance                                                                                                                            44

The Panama Public Finance and Institutional DPL was prepared by an IBRD team consisting o f Diomedes
Berroa. Rodrigo Jarque. Ulrich Lachler. Enzo de Laurentiis. Sonia C. Molina. Jessica Poppele. Josef Trommer.
and Manuel Vargas .


                    LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                                    PANAMA

      PUBLIC FINANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL, DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                     Republic o fPanama

  ImplementingAgency MinistryofEconomyandFinance

  Proposed Amount    US$60 Million equivalent

 Terms               Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) in U.S. Dollars with custom repayments of
                     principal commitment-linked, LlBOR based variable interest rates based
                     on cumulative disbursements of USD$60 million. The Borrower chose a
                     grace period of 2 years and total repayment term of 18 years. Payment
                     dates for interest and commitment charges due on each May 15 and
                     November 15.
  Tranching          Single tranche to be disbursed upon loan effectiveness

 Description         The proposed Loan supports the implementation o f the initial phase
                     o f the Government's new development program, as described in its
                     Strategic Vision document, with a focus on restoring fiscal
                     sustainability and improving fiscal transparency and public financial
                     management. This operation i s conceived as a one-time operation,
                     based on passage and implementation o frelevant reforms which will
                     achieve substantial measurable outcomes by the end o f 2006. To
                     reflect the medium-term nature o f the Government's public finance
                     management program, this DPL also indicates and assesses the
                     Government's future planned actions, and notes its medium-term
                     benchmark indicators (end-2009).
 Benefits            The actions supported by the proposed DPL are expected to benefit
                     Panama by helping to create a more stable macroeconomic
                     environment, introducing greater transparency into public financial
                     management, and contributing to improved efficiency o f public
                     spending. As direct benefits, the Loan is also expected to help
                     Panama obtain better financial terms for public borrowing and to
                     diversify its external sources o fpublic finance.
                     The main sources o f risk are political (inability to maintain popular
~~
 Risks
                     support for the reform agenda) and economic (slowdown in trade-
                     related service activities and high debt service burden). The first
                     source o f risk is limited by the DPL's narrow focus on fiscal and
                     public sector management, where the main legislative actions
                     already occurred.    The measures supported by the DPL help to
                     reduce debt-related risk by reducing the overall public debt through

 Operation IDNumber


                                         1

                  IBRDPROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSED
   PUBLICFINANCEAND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                                       TO PANAMA

                                 I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This program document describes a single-tranche Public Finance and Institutional
Development Policy Loan (DPL) to the Republic o f Panama for US$60 million equivalent.
This operation is conceived as a one-time operation, based on passage and implementation
o f fiscal stabilization and public financial management reforms which will achieve
substantial measurable outcomes by the end o f 2006. To reflect the medium-termnature o f
the Government's public finance management program, this DPL also indicates and
assesses the Government's future planned actions, and notes its medium-term benchmark
indicators (end- 2009).

2.      The Panamanian Government's new development strategy seeks to recapture
momentum on the broad-based reform agenda that was started in the second half o f the
1990s. At that time, trade barriers and price controls were largely dismantled, a far-
reaching privatization program and anti-trust legislation were introduced, and fiscal
adjustments coupled with debt reduction permitted Panama to regain the access to
international financial markets that had been lost during the economic debacle that
accompanied the Noriega regime inthe 1980s. Those reforms were supported by the Bank
through several loans and various analytical reports.      After 1999, facing economic
recession and popular discontent to privatization, the new administration distanced itself
from the agenda o f the preceding administration and further progress on broad-based
reform was stalled. The Government also moved away from the Bank as a development
partner, leaving much o f the Bank's previous Country Assistance Strategy (FY99-01)
unimplemented, with no major analytical work carried out and a policy dialogue that
shrank to a few areas coveredby ongoing projects.

3.      The Torrijos Administration, which assumed office in September 2004, has
reintroduced a broad-based reform agenda on the back o f an economic boom, restored near
term fiscal equilibriumandhas been re-engaging with the World Bank. Beginning with the
passage o f major fiscal and pension system reforms in2005, the government also unveiled
a medium-term development strategy that emphasizes fiscal discipline, transparency and
improved efficiency as important elements for accelerating growth, creating morejobs and
reducingpoverty. Inmid-2005, the Government initiated discussions with the World Bank
on a select program o f activities in support o f the Government's strategy, with a heavy
emphasis on analytical work. These discussions resulted in an initial two-year assistance
program described in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Panama (FY06-07), which was
discussed at the Board inOctober 2005.

4.      The proposed DPL represents an important step in the development o f a longer-
term results-based partnership between the World Bank and Panama in the context o f this
assistance program. It seeks to support the Government's public finance reform program,
which i s a comer-stone o f its broad-based medium-term development plan. Following on
the recent preparation o f the Public Expenditure Review (PER) the Poverty Assessment

                                             2

(PA) and Country Financial Accountability and Procurement Assessment Report
(CFAPAR), the proposed DPL provides a vehicle for deepening World Bank-Panama
policy discussions. Ifsuccessful, this DPL and other elements o f the I S Ncould become the
buildingblocks for a more comprehensive results framework ina new Country Partnership
Strategy for FY08-10, possibly including a programmatic series o f DPLs.

                                  11.       COUNTRYCONTEXT

5.      Panama i s an upper middle-income developing country with a per-capita gross
national income (GNI) o f US$4,630 in 2005. It has a population o f around 3 million
inhabitants, o f which more than half (57 percent) resides inurbanareas and 10percent is o f
indigenous descent.       In spite of Panama's relatively high per-capita income level, a
surprisingly large share o f the population (37 percent) continues to live below the national
poverty line, and around 17percent lives inextreme poverty.'

6.      Panama's social indicators are generally better than the regional averages, and
similar to those exhibited by other upper middle-income countries.                     However, these
indicators exhibit major variations across the urban-rural household divide, as well as
across an intra-urban socio-economic divide and an indigenous/ethnic divide.                        For
example, at 54 percent, the incidence o fpoverty inrural areas i s more thantwice the rate in
urban areas (20 percent). This wide dispersion o f social indicators also i s accompanied by
a very unequal distribution o f incomes. Panama's Gini index o f 56.4 i s among the highest
inthe regional and the world, and considerably higherthan the average for countries with
similar per-capita income levels.

7.      A distinctive trait o f the Panamanian economy is its monetary regime, which has
been tied to the U S dollar as legal tender since the early 1900s. This regime has provided a
stable anchor for the economy over the years, as manifested by low inflation rates, low
interest rates and the absence o f major currency crises. The adoption o f a US dollar-based
regime also has meant the removal o f active monetary and exchange rate policies from
Panama's arsenal o f macroeconomic policy instruments, forcing a greater reliance on fiscal
and trade policies.

8.      Panama can be characterized as a dual economy, consisting o f a dynamic service
exports sector that is very competitive at the global level and a more rigid, domestically-
oriented sector with low productivity and a protected agricultural market. The services
sector accounts for 75 percent o f Panama's GDP and over half o f its total exports. The
dominance o f this sector is explained by the country's unique geographic location between
North and South America and rests on four main pillars, comprising the operations o f the
Panama Canal, the Colon Free Zone, the International BankingCenter, andthe provision o f
flag-of-convenience services.

9.      While Panama's dual development model has been fairly successful in generating
growth, concerns have emerged about the continued viability o f the model as a basis for
fbture development and about its capacity to reduce poverty and inequality. Between 1997


1 World Bank calculations based o n results from the 1997 and 2003 Living Standard Measurement Surveys.

                                                      3

and 2003, real per capita GDP grew by 9 percent, but duringthe same period, poverty fell
only by about 1.3 percent. Moreover, GDP growth has not translated into consumption
growth for the average Panamanianhousehold. Average consumption per capita dropped
0.7 percent per year between 1997 and 2003. This lack o f progress inpoverty reduction i s
even more remarkable once the country's social spending i s taken into account: Panama
spends almost 17 percent o f its GDP in the social sectors. This i s higher than the 14
percent average in Latin America, and equals Costa Rica's spending, a country known for
its high investment in social programs and success in reducing poverty. In fact, if the
amount currently spent in the social sectors were to be distributed in cash to the whole
population, poverty, as defined by living on less thanUS$2 a day, would disappear. This i s
not a long-term solution to poverty or inequality, o f course, but it illustrates that at the
current levels o f spending, significant progress could be made in enhancing the
effectiveness o f spending inthe social sectors. A major challenge for Panama is, therefore,
to formulate and implement policies that help translate its solid growth performance into
effective and sustainable poverty reduction, without increasing its overall level o f social
spending. Improving the targeting, efficiency and effectiveness o f social spending, through
improvements inpublic financial management and better monitoring and evaluation o f the
implementation o f social programs and the delivery o f services will be crucial ifPanama is
to achieve effective poverty reduction and reduce its extreme inequality over the medium
and longterm.

A. RecentEconomicandPoliticalDevelopments

10.      Following an economic and political debacle inthe 1980s that culminated with the
ouster o f General Noriega at the end o f 1989, economic growth rebounded in the early
1990s as the United States lifted its economic embargo, macroeconomic discipline was
restored and various structural weaknesses o f the Panamanian economy (reported in the
World Bank's 1995 Country Economic Memorandum) began to be addressed. During
1994-99, a reform-minded administration proceeded to dismantle the existing labyrinth o f
trade barriers and price controls, implemented a far-reaching privatization program,
accompanied by anti-trust and consumer protection legislation, and concluded a debt
reduction deal with the Paris Club and private creditors that restored Panama's access to
international financial markets.2

11.      The global slowdown o f 2001-2002 hit Panama hard. Reform momentum stalled
and fiscal discipline was relaxed amidst a divided political environment. Upon taking
office, the 1999-2004 Administration raised certain tariffs and, as economic conditions
worsened popular discontent with privatization mounted, ceased to move on the
liberalization agenda, while a divided Congress made further progress on reforms difficult.
The Administration had difficulties in articulating and implementing an economic
development strategy. Over this period the Government moved away from the Bank as a
partner in development, leaving much o f the FY99-01 Country Assistance Strategy


  These reforms were supported by the World Bank through an Economic Recovery Loan (approved in 1992,
US$120 million,), a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (1997, US$30 million) and a Public Policy
Reform Adjustment Loan (1998, US$61 million), and by various analytical reports, including a
comprehensive Country Economic Memorandum (1995) that laid out a road map for equitable growth and
still remains relevant today.

                                                  4

unimplemented. Policy-based lending halted and no loans have gone to the Board since
2001.3

12.     The economy began to recover toward the end o f the 1999-2004 administration,
with GDP growth rising to 4.2 percent in 2003, and 7.6 percent in 2004. The boom was
ledby exports o f goods and services, which benefited from a worldwide recovery o f trade
during this period, and strong private consumption and investment demand. From a sector
perspective, the economic recovery was initially led by construction, transport, and
commerce activities.        The economy continued to expand strongly in 2005, with an
estimated growth of 6.4 percent, led by a further expansion incommerce and transport, as
well as an incipient recovery in financial intermediation activities after a long period o f
stagnation. Two sectors that have not exhibited any signs o f recovery since 2002 are
agriculture (excluding fisheries) andmanufacturing.

                          Table 1: Panama:Key MacroeconomicIndicators
                                    (as % of GDP,unless noted otherwise)
                                                                           Actual
                                                     2001       2002       2003         2004       2005
   GDP (incurrent B./ millions)                     11,808      12,272    12,933        14,204     15,466
   Real GDP (% annual growth)                         0.6        2.2        4.2          7.6        6.4
   Real GDP per capita (% annual growth)              -0.9       0.7        2.7          6.1        4.8
   CPI Inflationrate (average % change)               0.2        1.o        0.1          0.6        2.9
   Gross Domestic Investment                          19.4       18.0      21.3         20.7        19.2
   Gross National Savings                             17.9       17.2      17.5          12.8       14.8
        ConsolidatedNon-Financial Public Sector Indicators (excludes the operating surplus ofPCA)
   Public Sector Revenues                            23.8       22.9       22.3         21.1       22.4
   Public Sector Expenditures                        26.1       26.2       27.0         26.0       25.7
   Overall Balance, excl. the Canal                   -2.3       -3.3      -4.7          -4.9       -3.2
   Primary Balance, excl. the Canal                   2.0        1.o       -0.3          -0.7       1.2
   Total Public Debt                                 64.7        63.7      63.0         65.9       62.2
         ExternalSector Indicators
   Merchandise Exports (fob, incl. CFZ)              50.8       43.3       39.2         42.9       46.5
   Merchandise Imports (fob, incl. CFZ)              56.6        51.7      48.5         54.4       55.3
   Current account balance                            -1.5       -0.8      -3.9          -7.9       -5.3
   External Public Sector Debt                       53.0        51.7      50.3         50.8       49.0
   Source; Office of the ComptrollerGeneral, Ministry of EconomyandFinanceand Bank Staffestimates.


13.     Contrasting with these generally positive trends i s the rapid deterioration o f fiscal
balances after 2000, which resulted in primary deficits in 2003 and 2004. This decline
primarily reflected deterioration inthe finances of the central government and o f the social
security institute (CSS), and was mostly due to declines inrevenues, rather than increased
expenditures. To stem the deterioration o f public finances, the 1999-2004 administration
passed a tax reform in2002. That reform had little impact, however, as the modest gain in
tax revenues was soon eroded away by the continued presence o f tax exemptions and
special fiscal regimes.         In parallel, the ranks of civil servants continued to swell,
particularly in the CSS, creating additional pressures on the budget.                         Also, fiscal


 A GEF financed rural productivity project was approved by the Board inJune 2006 inthe context of the
ISN.

                                                         5

administration became less transparent. A Fiscal Responsibility Law was passed in 2002
which sought to institutionalize fiscal discipline by setting legal limits on the maximal
deficit. The spirit o f that law was not honored, however, as the authorities modified the
definition o f relevant fiscal parameters in order to accommodate deficits that otherwise
would not have complied with the law. Also, increasing recourse was taken to deficit
financing via payment arrears, which obscured further the quality o f fiscal information.

14.     The overall public sector fiscal deficit reached an alarming 4.9 percent o f GDP in
2004 and raisedPanama's public debt to 66 percent o f GDP, triggering new concerns about
the country's future debt sustainability. Considering that almost all o f this debt is on non-
concessional terms, Panama currently ranks as one o f the most highly indebted countries in
Latin America. The servicing o f the public debt accounts for about 25 percent o f the total
consolidated public sector spending, or over 40 percent o f central government spending.
At the same time, concerns emerged about the weakening o fpublic financial management,
as a fiu-therobstacle to poverty reduction andgrowth.

15.     Fortunately, a major fiscal correction took place in2005, which reduced the overall
fiscal deficit to 3.2 percent and generated a positive primaryfiscal balance. This correction
is largely attributable to the timely policy response by the newly elected Torrijos
Administration, which moved quickly to restore fiscal stability and reintroduced a broad
reform agenda. Also, the quality o f public debt management in Panama i s good and
follows a very conservative approach (see the Panama PER 2006, chapter IX), which has
resulted in an average public debt maturity o f 12 years (and average debt duration o f 7.3
years). This structure o f the public debt significantly limits the exposure to interest rate
variability.

16.     President Martin Torrijos assumed office inSeptember 2004, with a strong political
mandate that gave his party a majority in the Legislative Assembly. Within six months o f
taking office, the Government secured passage o f a fiscal reform package and o f a
politically difficult pension reform. Although the initial pension reform was over-turned
by crippling protests, the government succeeded in forging consensus by year-end on a
revised reform law. These measures form part o f an ambitious medium-term development
strategy that was unveiled by the Authorities in early 2005. Building on the structural
reform process that was suspended after 1999, this strategy emphasizes fiscal discipline,
transparency and greater efficiency as crucial elements for accelerating export-led
economic growth, creating morejobs and lowering poverty by one-fifth during the Torrijos
Administration's tenure o f office. With the unveiling o f this program, the government also
expressed renewed interest in the World Bank's collaboration in the country's
development, as laid out in the Interim Strategy Note (Report No. 32887-PA, dated
08/30/05).

B. Panama's PublicFinanceFramework

17.     Panama's public sector stands out in several respects vis-a-vis those o f other
developing countries inthe region and ~ o r l d w i d e : ~


4 See World Bank, "Panama: Public ExpenditureReview" (2006), chapter I1for further details.

                                                 6

     Total non-financial public expenditures, and especially current spending, represent a
     considerably larger share o f GDP thanthe regional average, with total spendingon debt
     service and social security transfers beingnotably high.
0    The national government accounts for the lion's share o f total public spending, as local
     government spending represents less than 3 percent o f the total. Within the national
     level, the central government accounts for about one-half o f total spending while the
     decentralized institutions account for 25 percent. (The largest decentralized institution,
     by far, is the social security institute, which alone accounts for 20 percent o f total
     public sector expenditures.) The remaining public spending share is accounted for by
     the public financial institutions andpublic enterprises.
0    Public enterprises accounted for almost 20 percent o f total public spending in the mid-
     1990s, but currently account for only 6 percent, reflecting the progressive divestiture
     and downsizing o f these enterprises over the last decade.
     From a sector viewpoint, the social sectors (including social security) absorb the largest
     portion o f public expenditures: between 18 and 20 percent o f GDP is devoted to public
     social sector spending, or almost 50 percent more than the L A C average (13.5 percent).
     General government employment in Panama represents about 5.5 percent o f the
     population, which is significantly higher than the average ratio (4.3 percent) observed
     in other middle-income countries, especially considering that Panama does not have
     armedforces.

18.      On the revenue side, Panama stands out by receiving an unusually large amount of
public revenues from non-tax sources, which i s mainly explained by Panama's unique
geographic circumstances and links to the Panama Canal' (Central government non-tax
revenues averaged around 6 percent o f GDP in 2003-04.) These same circumstances also
explain why Panama's tax ratio (averaging 8.6 percent in 2003-04) traditionally has been
smaller than in most other countries in the region. Another unique feature o f Panama's
revenue structure is that about one-half o f the total tax revenues is obtained from direct
taxes (especially income taxes).           Other countries in the region depend much more on
indirect taxes, especially value-added taxes, to satisfy their public revenue needs.

19.      Based on the particular features o f Panama's public finances, the recently
concluded Public Expenditure Review (PER) identified various potentially important
opportunities for generating greater fiscal savings, improving economic efficiency and
reducing income inequality. With regard to generating fiscal savings, the PER draws
attention to the opportunities for (i)      reducing redundancies inPanama's public sector labor
force, (ii)   reducing the large number o f tax incentive regimes in the tax system, (iii)
improving yields from the value-added tax, (iv) strengthening the fiscal code, (v) upgrading
the MEF's tax auditing capacity, (vi) raising the rates for selective consumption taxes, and
(vii) improving the management o f public assets, especially through more systematic
attention to revenue collection. With respect to efficiency considerations, the PER found
that the tax structure can be rendered less distorting by (i)         realigning the corporate tax rate
and the highest personal income tax bracket, (ii)            replacing certain selective consumption
taxes by a value-added-tax, and (iii)       eliminating taxes that generate little revenue relative to


  The devolution o f the Canal to Panama was concluded in 2000, along with huge extensions of land and
infrastructure that comprise the former United States-administered Canal Zone.

                                                      7

administration costs and place an undue burden on small businesses. With respect to
distributional considerations, the PERnoted that Panama's tax system is slightlyregressive
overall, with the income tax exerting a modestly progressive impact on the distribution o f
income and other taxes having a marginally regressive impact.                          Even so, the re-
distributional impact o f the tax system is minor and, thus, does not appear to be a
significant factor in determining Panama's very unequal income distribution. While there
i s some scope for rendering the income tax more progressive, attention would be better
focused on expenditure policy to pursueparticular distributional objectives.6

C. Key Aspects of PublicFinancialManagementinPanama

20.      The quality o f public financial and expenditure management is critically important
for poverty reduction in Panama. As described in the 2006 PER, Panama devotes a
significantly higher share o f GDP to public spending than the average upper-middle
income country, especially in the social sectors. However, its social outcome indicators,
while generally better than the regional averages, are not commensurate with this higher
amount o f public spending. This raises questions about the efficiency and transparency of
public spending in Panama. In that context, the apparent weakening o f public financial
management (PFM) duringthe earlyparts o fthis decadebecame especially worrisome.

21.      In March 2006, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank
delivered to the Minister o f Finance a joint Country Financial Accountability and
Procurement Assessment Report (CFAPAR).                           The CFAPAR's key findings and
recommendations were based on an intense policy dialogue carried out with a broad range
o f stakeholders over the previous several months and were presented to the Government
together with those o f the Public Expenditure Review and the Poverty Assessment. Some
o f the actions recommended by the CFAPAR are already being implemented under the
Government's ongoing reform program, which i s supported, inpart, by the Bank's Public
Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project and by other donors, most notably the IDB.
The CFAPAR concludes that the PFM system in Panama possesses a number o f strengths
that permit fiscal discipline control, such as legal powers to contain budgeted expenditures,
timelymonitoring o fbudget execution data and cash flows, centralization o frevenues, and
adequate debt management.               In addition, the PFM system in Panama includes basic
elements that support a transparent and competitive procurement environment and a sound
and enforceable regulatory framework for access to information, ethics and transparency.
Concrete actions have been taken recently to enhance the transparency o f public finances,
such as the increase in information that has been made publicly available. The CFAPAR
also draws attention to various opportunities to promote a more efficient use and oversight
o f public resources, through hrther improvements in fiscal transparency, budget and
resource management, and public procurement.

Fiscal Transparency

22.      Important advances have been made in terms o f timeliness, scope and publication
o f fiscal information, but there is still need for an integral improvement in the quality o f

  As a first step in this direction, the PER recommends the preparation o f a distributive analysis o f public
expenditures, with special attention on the incidence o fpublic transfers.

                                                       8

public sector accounting and production o f financial statements.             The Panamanian
budgeting system exhibits ample coverage, adequate classification and timely publication,
but the budget documentation could be further improved through application o f the Fiscal
Transparency Code and by continuing the efforts to identify and control accounts
receivable (taxpayer accounts) and payable (accrued expenditures), particularly those in
arrears. In the area o f external audits, the timeliness and publication o f financial audit
reports are notably good, but their coverage andquality is subject to enhancement.

Budget and Resource Management

23.      Budget execution outtums have been very close, on average, to the original budget
figures over the last three years, which confirms the PFM system's capacity to help
maintain aggregate fiscal discipline. However, at the level o f individual public institutions
and particularly in capital expenditures, there are still significant differences between
budgeted and executed expenditures, which reduce the credibility o f the budget planning
process. Another area o f concern i s the pervasive system o f transactional controls that seem
to affect operational efficiency. Therefore, attention i s required inthe following areas:

0   Policv-based budgeting.      The annual budget formulation process i s generally clear,
    orderly and transparent, but could be strengthened through the development o f
    medium-term frameworks, which in turn require proper costing o f strategic sectoral
    plans, enforcing better compliance with public investment programming procedures
    anddeveloping indicative ceilings for the discussion o fsectoral budgetprojects.
0   Tax administration.        Continued implementation o f the ongoing institutional
    strengthening project o f MEF's Revenue Directorate i s called for, with special attention
    on the audit and fraud investigation capacity, cleaning up o f tax-payer accounts and
    institutional internal controls.
0   Control o f cash and debt. Existing institutional arrangements permit a good handle on
    the government's cash position, but there i s scope for improvement by giving the
    Treasury additional powers to control idle balances, reduce the fragmentation o f
    payment bank accounts, and attend to the timely and independent reconciliation o f its
    principal accounts. Furthermore, payment practices could be modernized and unified,
    and the procedures to record and service debt could be simplified.
0   Expenditure control. Despite ample transactional controls, which seem to operate well
    inthe payroll system, controls for non-salary expenditures seem inefficient and tendto
    dilute accountability. The ongoing development o f tools to facilitate fiscal control
    could be complemented with selective application o f ex-ante controls based on internal
    control risk assessments and an in-depth review o f internal administrative systems and
    procedures within executing agencies.
0   Integrated financial management. The proliferation o f separate and sometimes
    incompatible information technology applications threatens to slow down the advance
    o f the integrated financial management system (SIAFPA)'s integration and relevance as
    management tool. There i s a need, thus, for public sector IT development policies.

Public Procurement

24.      Panama's capacity to generate important savings in budget implementation has
been restricted by several factors related to procurement. There i s a need, inparticular, to

                                               9

streamline and enhance the efficiency o f contracting processes, improve consistency o f
procurement practices, and increase competition. Moreover, there i s ample room to
simplify administrative requirements, which have been contributing to delays, overlaps and
inefficiencies in the procurement process.             Another opportunity for improvement
government procurement i s through the adoption o f a comprehensive public procurement
strategy framework comprising, among others, cost reduction strategies (e.g., price
benchmarking, consolidation for economies o f scale), a functional procurement monitoring
and evaluation system to generate adequate information for performance assessment and
feedback into policy-making; and more efficient procedures (including basic tools such as
standard documents, manuals and guidelines).            The legal framework for public sector
procurement which had been inplace untilrecently included the basic elements to support
a transparent and competitive environment, but needed to be clarified invarious areas, such
as qualification and evaluation criteria, the amount o f the performance security,
justification for direct contracting and selection o f consulting services. An important step
has been taken inthis regard with the recent enactment o f a new procurement law, (Ley 22
o f 20067), which will become effective on December 29 2006; see para. 49.

                        111.   THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
25.      Conscious o f the limitations posed by the traditional dual development model and
o f the public finance development challenges discussed above, the newly elected Torrijos
Administration developed a strategic vision for developing the economy.8 This vision rests
on five strategic pillars that emphasize poverty reduction and improved income
distribution, faster economic growth and employment creation, the reorganizationo fpublic
finances, human capital development and the modernization o f the state, including greater
transparency andthe eradication o f corruption inthe public sector.

26.      Inthe context ofthisstrategic vision, the Panamanianauthorities arehllyaware of
the need to restore greater fiscal discipline and, more broadly, to strengthen the overall
foundations for sustaining broad-based economic growth.                To this effect, the Torrijos
administration introduced a fiscal reform (`Ley de Equidud Fiscal" (No. 6), passed in
February 2005), and a pension reform (passed inJune 2005 andrevised inDecember 2005;
Law No. 51) designed to limit the losses o f the social security institute. In seeking to
restore fiscal equilibrium, these measures constitute an important effort toward creating a
more sustainable basis for growth, as well as a critical first step toward achieving broader
public financial management reforms.            Three other major steps contemplated by the
government in response to the challenges described earlier are the negotiation o f a free
trade agreement with the United States, the expansion o f the Panama Canal to
accommodate larger ships and the creation o f a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program,
"Red de Oportunidades" to better target social assistance.              In addition to improving
investor confidence, the signing o f a freetrade agreement i s expected to open up previously




'Ley   22 of June 27, 2006 was approved by the National Congress on June 8, 2006 and ratified by the
*ExecutiveBranch on June 27,2006. Gaceta Oficial25,576 o f June 28,2006.
  Gobiemo de Panad, "Vision EstratCgica de Desarrollo Econ6mico y de Empleo Hacia 2009",

                                                  10

protected sectors o f the economy, thus helping to diversify Panama's sources o f growth.'
The expansion o f the Canal, in turn, should help to reestablish Panama's competitive
advantage inthe traditional service sectors." Inparallel, the government is also seeking to
promote various other major projects under private concession arrangements to increase
public infrastructure inthe ports, urbantransport, sewerage andpower sectors. Finally, the
CCT program is expected to improve the poverty impact o f social expenditures and allow
more Panamanians to benefit from its growth performance.

A. The Fiscal andPensionReformProgram

The Fiscal Reform

27.      Respondingto the need to restore a sustainable fiscal position, Panama's authorities
introduced a new fiscal reform (Ley 6) in February 2005. That reform seeks to reduce the
fiscal deficit to 1percent o f GDP by 2009, entailing an adjustment o f 4 percentage points
of GDP over the period o f this Administration. The main elements o f this reform, which
includes measures on boththe expenditure andrevenue side, are summarized inAnnex 3.

28.      Most o f the revenue increases from the 2005 fiscal reform will come on stream in
2006, when income taxes for the year 2005 are paid. The MEF estimates the reform will
raise total annual revenues by B. /127 million beginning in 2006, with most o f the gain
coming from the introduction o f a minimum income tax o f 1.4 percent o f sales levied on
businesses. The MEF estimates the additional revenue from this tax at around B./75
million, or 60 percent o f the total additional annual revenue. Most o f the remaining
revenue gain is expected to accrue from the elimination o f several tax incentive regimes
and a hike in fees paid by firms in the Colon Free Zone. The reduction in tax incentive
regimes reduces the total fiscal losses due to tax exemptions by 15 to 20 percent.
Altogether, the revenue measures are expected to raise total revenues by approximately 0.7
percent o f GDP.




9 The United States and Panama entered final stages o f negotiating a Free Trade Agreement inearly 2006.
Complications arose, however, slowing finalization. The Government o f Panama subsequently decided to
first pursue the referendum needed for Canal expansion. Treaty negotiations are expected to restart in late
2006 or early 2007.
10 President Torrijos unveiled the government's plan to expand the Canal on April 25, 2006. The Canal
expansion project i s estimated to cost around US$5.3 billion, and take 8 years to complete. The project i s to
be mainly financed through the Canal's own cash flow and borrowings that do not involve sovereign
guarantees. A public referendumto move ahead with the project is expected to take place inOctober 2006.

                                                     11

                    Table 2: EstimatedImpact of the 2005 Fiscal Reform
                                      (In millions of Balboas)




                     Total                 122.0          255.8 268.8   268.8   281.3
                  (!Aof GDP)              0.81%          1.59%  1.59%  1.49%    1.45%


29.     The authorities project that the contemplated expenditure cuts will yield a similar
amount o f additional fiscal savings as the revenue measures.           The main measures
contemplated on the expenditure side are the reduction in public employment through
attrition, the elimination o f vacancies and curtailment o f some professional service
contracts. As indicated earlier, Panama's public sector labor force i s largeby international
standards and, therefore, a potentially significant source for achieving fiscal savings.
Together, these cuts are projected by the authorities to yield savings on the order o f B./143
millionper annum, or around 0.9 percent o f GDP.

30.     Summary Assessment. The main measures included in the 2005 fiscal reform are
broadly consistent with the findings o f the 2006 PER, which drew attention to important
opportunities for generating fiscal savings through the elimination o f tax exemptions and
by slimming down the bloated ranks of the public sector labor force. The reform already
appears to have contributed to the ongoing fiscal recovery: it was projected to generate
fiscal savings o f 0.8 percent o f GDP in 2005, while preliminary figures indicate that the
primary fiscal surplus rose by about 1.9 percent o f GDP inrelation to the balance in2004.
Even so, the authorities will need to monitor revenues closely to ensure that the reform
targets are met. Considering the pattern o f corporate income tax filings (where less than
one-third o f all the corporations that submitted tax filings in 2004 showed a taxable
income), the authorities will have to devote considerable effort to kbstantially increase the
number showing taxable income. Also, learningfrom the experience o fthe 2002 reform, it
will be important to avoid the creation o fnew tax incentive regimes as old ones are phased
out. In any case, the impact projections in Table 2 also suggest that additional fiscal
measures will be needed to achieve the government's medium term objective o f reducing
the overall fiscal deficit to 1 percent o f GDP and reducing the public debt ratio to 54


                                                 12

percent o f GDP by 2009. Possible additional measures that could help achieve these
objectives are discussed inthe Panama PER(2006) and summarized inparagraph 19.

PensionReform

31.       Panama's social security institute (CSS) has been experiencing rising cash flow
deficits since 2002, with the outlook pointing toward a continued deterioration in the
absence o f corrective measures.             This deterioration was especially pronounced in the
pension component, which consisted o f an obligatory defined-benefit Pay-As-You-Go
scheme with partial collective capitalization funded through compulsory contributions. Its
financial deterioration can be traced to (i)          declines in the ratio of contributing workers to
pensioners, (ii)an increase in the relative share o f the informal labor market, whose
members do not contribute to the CSS, (iii)               very low yields on the financial investments
made by CSS and (iv) an inefficient expansion in the CSS labor force. To correct this
deterioration, a pension reform was passed in December 2005 (Ley SI), after a long
consultation process.

32.       The pension reform consists o f parametric changes applied to the existing Pay-As-
You-Go scheme and the introduction o f new individual savings accounts for all new
entrants into the labor force (andcurrent contributors under the age o f 35) earning inexcess
o f B./500 per month. From a fiscal viewpoint, the most important parametric changes
achieved by the reform are (i)        an increase inthe minimum contribution period required to
become eligible for a pension, (ii)           increases in the pensions contribution rate, (iii)              the
inclusion o f 'representation allowances' as part o f a worker's base salary, and (iv) an
effective reduction inthe replacement ratios. The other major component o f the reform i s a
progressive increase inthe annual transfer made by the central government to the pension
system, from the current amount o f B. /20.5 million until it reaches B. /140 million per
annum by 2012. This stream o f annual subsidies to the pension system i s estimated to have
a present value o f around B./1.5 billion, or roughly 10percent o f 2005 GDP.

33.       Summarv Assessment. The parametric changes contained in the pension reform
generally point toward a greater fiscal consolidation and, thus, are expected to arrest the
pattern o f increasing CSS deficits that was predicted in the absence o f reform over the
mediumterm, thereby complementing the process o f fiscal consolidation promoted by the
2005 Fiscal Reform.           Over the longer term, to guarantee that the pension system i s
actuarially viable, the reform established a system o f yearly independent actuarial audits
which will identifythe need for any additional measures. This assessment is based, among
others, on the findings o f an IBRD consultant that visited Panama in June 2006 to review
the fiscal impact o f the pension system."

"This review concludes that the pensionreform does not substantiallymodify the benefits ofthe PAYG
system for the current participants in the pension system, and gradually increases over time the level o f
contributions to the system, both through a phased increase in contribution rates and expansion o f the
contributor base. As a result, the actuarial balance o f the pension system (net o f central government transfers)
i s not worsened inthe short and mediumt e r n o n account o f the reform, and it improves for future generations
in the long run (through the introduction o f the second pillar o f defined-contributions). The review also
concludes that the pension reform i s expected to have a modestly positive social impact by permitting
seasonal and independent workers - which had heretofore been excluded - to incorporate into the pension
system.

                                                        13

34.     The authorities are taking the opportunity o f the new pension law to reform the
entire regulatory framework o f the pension system, which involves the consolidation o f the
approximately 80 implementing regulations that existed under the previous law into 18
new implementing regulations. Of these 18 regulations, 3 have been approved as o f June
2006 and another 4 were in the process o f approval by the Board o f Directors o f the
pension institute, 8 were in the process o f preparation and 3 were pending.           These
implementing regulations need to be completed by the time that the new pension law
comes hlly into effect at the end o f 2007. This is particularly relevant for the defined
contribution component (second pillar) to be introduced under the new law, whose
institutional arrangements still need to be fully definedand established.

B. Programto ImproveFiscal TransparencyandPublicFinancialManagement

35.      Two pillars (reform o f public finance and modernization o f the State) o f the
government's economic and social development plan lay out the key areas o f public
financial management strengthening and transparency. The government's program to
regain fiscal stability consists, among other measures, o f (i)the rationalization o f current
expenditures, including avoiding unnecessary expenses, with transparent, effective and
efficient public procurement and contracting mechanisms, (ii)tax reform geared to
capturing more resources through a fairer tax structure and a more efficient tax
administration; (iii) improved management o fthe budgetary system geared to achieve more
productive investments, (iv) establishment o f responsible accounts payable management,
and (v) provision o f accurate information through transparent accounting standards. The
state reform and modernization area includes actions in various fronts, including (i)
ensuring transparency and eradicating corruption from the public sector, and (ii)
redesigning the government's functions by getting rid o f obsolete activities, simplifying
and reducing bureaucratic dealings, and streamlining administration through improved staff
professionaltraining.

36.      As mentioned earlier, the CFAPAR provides a comprehensive view o f the status of
public financial management systems and institutions in Panama. The following
paragraphs, in turn, present information on the selective aspects o f the government's
reform program that are directly relatedto the DPL operation.

Program to Improve Fiscal Transparency

37.      Fiscal data. The MEF and the CGR issue on a timely basis in-year and annual
budget reports and financial statements (complemented with information on debt and
payroll), and make them available through public means such as the internet. In order to
broaden the scope o f those reports, the MEF and the CGR decided recently to publishon a
periodical basis the calculation o f fiscal balances and correlated clarifying remarks. As a
result, the quantityand quality o f fiscal data inthe public domain during2006 will increase
with respect to previous years, thus facilitating more external scrutiny and comparative
analysis o f fiscal performance. Looking ahead, the government plans to gradually improve
the content o fbudgetary and fiscal data inline with internationalpractice.



                                                14

38.     Reducing Pavments Arrears.         One o f the most serious problems in budget
management has traditionally been the delay inpaying suppliers and contractors, which can
add significantly to the value o f public contracts, discourage participation in the
procurement market, and reduce the transparency o f fiscal figures.                The current
administration has made a significant effort to clear existing arrears, making special
allocations o f approximately B./70 million inDecember 2004 and B./60 million inOctober
2005 for this purpose, while seeking to remain current on the new payments falling due. As
a result, end-of-fiscal-year outstanding accruals reported by the CGR were reduced from
13.1% o f central government expenditures in 2004 to 5.8% in 2005. Future plans include
the clearing up o f databases andreports on arrears.

39.     The environment for fiscal transparency is also being further strengthened by the
government's actions on anti-corruption and access to information. Buildingon Law 6 o f
2002, which constitutes the legal framework for transparency inthe public administration,
the government issued regulations in December 2004 that establish general principles for
the standardization o f codes o f ethics within the central government. Also, a National
Anticorruption Council was created inOctober 2004, as an advisory body to the Executive
Branch on public sector strategies related to good governance, transparency, ethics and
anticorruption. More recently,

0   The Controller General designed new guidelines for, anddeveloped an on-line tracking
    system to monitor, the status o f its ex-ante reviews, initiated the process o f developing
    indicators to assess the fiduciary capacity o fpublic entities and i s planning to adjust the
    thresholds for ex-ante reviews accordingly, and established a financial disclosure
    program for public sector employees (which 87 percent compliance achieved by
    December 25,2005).
    The Attorney General (i)strengthened the anti-corruption prosecutorial team by
    appointing a new senior prosecutor, (ii) an `internal affairs' office responsible
                                                created
    for investigating misconduct in the Attorney General's office, (iii)       adopted an anti-
    corruption agenda at the national and international level, and (iv) i s sponsoring a billto
    expedite investigationandprosecutiono f corruption cases.

40.     The right to access information in Panama is grounded in Article 41 o f the
Constitution and guaranteed under Law 6. In line with the Government's commitment to
transparency, the Executive Branch issued a decree inSeptember 2004 that further expands
and defines the public's right to information. Now anyone can exercise this right with
respect to any matter o f social and private interest, andpublic officials are requiredto issue
a prompt response under penalty o f law, which also establishes a judicial mechanism for
enforcing this right. The exercise o f the right to access information has been further
facilitated by the introduction o f the new e-procurement system (PanamaCompra) in
October 2005, whose enabling decree emphasizes the importance o f e-procurement in
promoting transparency and competition, and supporting good governance. All central
government institutions and autonomous entities are required to post online all public
procurement information, contract opportunities and awards. Municipal and other local
entities are also expected to eventually utilize PanamaCompra.

41.      Surnmarv Assessment. Among its recommendations, the CFAPAR mentions that
the budget documentation could be improved through the implementation o f certain

                                               15

practices from the Code o f Good Practices on Fiscal Transparency (IMF, 2001), and that
the efforts made so far to reduce delayed payments should continue and be complemented
with the production o f certain key information, such as the reconciliation betweenpayable
amounts reported in central government fiscal balance reports and in financial statements,
andthe preparationo f auxiliary records with age profiles. Hence, the government's actions
andplansinthese two areas are broadly consistent with the CFAPAR.

Program to Improve Public Budgeting

42.     Medium-Term Budgeting. The Government has taken important steps toward
developing a medium term fiscal and budgetary framework, including the preparation o f
macroeconomic and fiscal projections, a first debt-sustainability exercise, and a draft multi-
annual budget 2006-2009. This initial effort presents a significant overhaul o f the
budgeting system, which has traditionally relied upon an annual time span that is too short
for strategic public investment and expenditure planning. The new framework should
significantly strengthen the government's capacity to planthe use o f resources in line with
its fiscal policy and national strategic objectives, but -as is normal in this type o f
undertaking- gradual implementation is called for before the medium-term frameworks are
institutionalized. Still, it i s worth noting that the 2007 Budget Policyrecently issued bythe
MEF formalizes the introduction o f this instrument byrequiring budget entities to develop
medium-term (2007-20 10) aggregate projections o f revenues, capital and recurrent
expenditures, which in turn will be the basis for the Multi-Annual Budget. The latter
would form part o f the documentation used by the executive to propose the annual budget
law to the legislature for approval. This effort and the Government's plans to modernize
its Public Investment System (see next para.) are being supported by the IDB's Program to
Strengthen and Modernize Economic andFiscal Management (Annex 6).

43.      Modernizing the Public Investment Svstem. A program to strengthen the planning,
programming and control o f the public investment budget has been initiated, with the
objective o f improving the quality andreturn on government investments. The key element
o fthis program i s the development o f an Internet-based information system "control tower"
in the National System of Public Investment (SIN")                 to provide comprehensive
information on the public sector's total investmentproject portfolio. The alignment o f this
portfolio with the sectoral medium-term budget frameworks will be a critical next step.

44.      Summarv Assessment.           The government's plan to modernize public sector
budgeting i s broadly consistent with the CFAPAR, which commends the recent exercises
to develop medium-term fiscal and budget frameworks, while suggesting to strengthen the
"bottom-up" process (i.e. the strategic sectoral plans properly costed), enforce compliance
with the public investment programming procedures (including the quantification and
evaluation o f implications on recurrent expenditures), and -based upon all o f the above-
develop indicative ceilings for the discussion o f sectoral budgetprojects.

Public Procurement Reform

45.      The current Government has placed strong emphasis on procurement reform as a
way to streamline public administration and increase the efficiency o f public spending. As


                                                 16

a result, the Public Procurement Directorate (DCP) in MEF received a stronger mandate
and full political support to revive the reform process. Currently, the DCP has effective
leadership, i s developing a sound vision for its strengthened role, and is beginning to
coordinate well with other key Government stakeholders, in particular the Comptroller
General o f the Republic (CGR) and the Presidential Secretariat for Government Innovation
(SPIG). In addition to those allocated by the Government, adequate resources to support
the initial phase o f the reform are available through the World Bank's Public Policy
Reform Technical Assistance Project (Annex 5), which has a specific component for this
purpose.

46.     During 2005, the DCP was restructured to provide technical assistance to
procurement entities on the interpretation and application o f the regulatory framework,
supervise the consistent implementation o f the system as a complement to the CGR's
control function, develop bidding documents, build capacity in procuring entities, and
manage the e-procurement system.            Under the its new structure, the following
improvements have been observed inthe performance o f the DCP:

    0   Cost reduction strategies. The DCP has implementedpublic procurement processes
        for the provision of key services and goods for the central government that usedto
        be procured in a fragmented manner by each public entity. According to informal
        estimates by the DCP, the cost reduction strategy already has produced cost savings
        o f up to 34 percent for the central government, while increasing competition,
        promoting greater transparency and increasing the quality o f the products/services
        procured in key areas, such as telecommunication and office supplies. The DCP
        plansto apply this strategy to other key services andgoods inthe near future.
    0   More effective workflow system. Preliminary estimates based on approximately 70
        percent o f the procurement processes analyzed by the DCP, indicate that the
        average response time period fell from 90 days in August 2005 to 30 days as o f
        May 2006.
    0   Improved skills mix.     The DCP has strengthened its skill-mix, increasing the
        number o f professionals from 2 to 13, while keeping the overall number o f
        employees at the same level. The structure o f the DCP also has been redesigned to
        effectively support and address the areas o f legal advice, e- procurement system,
        policy andmanagement o fthe public procurement system, and special projects.
        Improved outreach. An outreach campaign was launched to collaborate more
        effectively with the private sector and civil society organizations (e.g. with the local
        chapter o f Transparency International).

47.     A major accomplishment in the area o f procurement has been the development o f
the new e-procurement system, PanamaCompra, which is capable o f performing many
sophisticated functions, such as business opportunities notifications, on-line status
notifications o f payments for providers. An important indicator o f the progress made in




                                              17

implementing this new system is that 90 percent o f all public procurement processes inthe
central government i s currently takingplace through PanamaCompra.12 More than 100,000
visitors and 1100 registered subscribers have visited the web-site since the beginning o f
February 2006. The new e-system provides subscribers automatic information regarding
ongoing procurement processes o f activities that they may be interested. Furthermore, a
module that allows contractors/providers to find out the status o f their requests for
payments has been created and another module has been designed to provide CGR with a
monitoring tool.

48.       The DCP also has made progress in developing a comprehensive procurement
reform strategy, preparing surveys to determine perceptions on the effectiveness o f public
procurement systems, applying baseline indicator systems to assess procurement
performance, and designing training programs to improve public procurement capacities.

0    The consultant retained for the purpose developing a comprehensive procurement
     reform strategy has finished the consultative phase with the authorities, with a final
     report produced in June 2006. Moreover, a consultant has been hired to analyze and
     redesign the process o fpurchases andpayments inkey government agencies.
0    Consultant services have been contracted to develop a methodology and conduct
      surveys to determine private andpublic perceptions o f the public procurement system.
0    The DCP i s in the process o f applying the baseline indicators system (BIS) developed
     by the OECD-DAC/World Bank Roundtable on Strengthening Procurement Capacity
     in Developing Countries to broadly assess the key elements of a well functioning
     procurement system.13 The BIS will constitute the basis for a monitoring system to
     continue measure progress and identifyareas where additional emphasis is required.
0    Finally, the D C A i s designing a consulting activity aimed at (i)                  assessing technical
     capacities and skills o f public staff responsible for carrying out procurement processes;
      and (ii)  developing a comprehensive training and capacity building programs for the
     procurement agencies.

49.       A new procurement law (Ley 22) was recently enacted. The new Law, which is
scheduled to become effective on December 29 2006, (i)eliminates parallel frameworks,
applicable to several agencies (with exception o f the CSS, the Panama Canal Authority and
municipal entities), that have hampered the application o f a consistent public procurement
system; (ii)    creates an autonomous DCP, as an entity responsible for the interpretation o f
the law; and, (iii)     establishes several procedures/ systems promoting efficiency, economy
and transparency; such as: a) establishing a framework for cost reduction strategies (e.g.,
price benchmarking, consolidation for economies o f scale), b) creating an independent


l2  Cabinet Decree 98 o f September 2, 2005, requires all central government institutions and autonomous
entities to post online all public procurement information, contract opportunities and awards. Municipal and
other local entities are expected (but not compelled) to eventually begin using PanamaCompra.
(www.panamacomma,nob.ua            The Decree emphasizes the importance o f e-procurement in promoting
transparency and competition, and supporting good governance. (Gaceta Oficial25,378, September 5,2005).
l3 The BLIs are intended to provide a standardized instrument for developing countries and donors to assess
the quality and effectiveness o f national procurement systems. The BLIs address four aspects o f a country
public procurement system: (i)    the existing legal framework that regulates procurement inthe country; (ii)  the
institutional architecture o f the system; (iii)the competitiveness o f the national market; and (iv) the integrity
o f the procurement system.

                                                        18

administrative tribunal to review/decide procurement related protests/complains, and c)
establishing a sound framework for the implementationo f an e-procurement system. Under
the TA operation, the World Bank provide financial and technical support to GOP's
actions aimed at implementing the new procurement law, including, among others: a)
drafting regulation frameworks and procedures; b) developing an e-procurement strategy;
c) and providing office and IT equipment and capacity building to the new autonomous
DCP.

50.      The CGR i s in the process o f reviewing its control methods with the objective o f
improving its operating efficiency and the SPIG (www.innovacion.gob.pa ) continues to
play a central role in promoting the development o f technology designed to promote
transparency and efficiency in the public administration.         Proof o f this i s given by the
PanamaTramita (www.panamatramita.gob.pa ) and PanamaCompra projects. Inthe case o f
PanamaCompra, the next version includes functionalities that will help SPIG in auditing
technology acquisition by all government entities.

51.      Summary Assessment. The current Government has given priority to procurement
reform to streamline public administration and increase the efficiency and transparency o f
public spending (Le. providing a stronger mandate to the DCP, passing a new procurement
law, supporting e-procurement system). The actions taken to date already appear to have
had a considerable impact (para.46) and should become even more apparent over time.
Implementing the new legal framework and building up consistent practices among
procurement agencies will be as or more important thanthe changes to the legal framework
per se.

C. Debt SustainabilityAnalysis andMediumTermProspects

52.      The outlook on Panama's medium-term macroeconomic prospects has been
evolving rapidly and positively over the last year. The debt sustainability analysis in this
Program Document i s based on the macroeconomic framework developed for the Panama
Public Expenditure Review (2006), which was based on the conservative macroeconomic
outlook prevailing at the end o f 2005. This framework assumed a medium term real GDP
growth rate o f 4 percent per annum in an environment o f low inflation rates (in line with
the inflation rate in the United States) and a real interest rate o f close to 6 percent. This
GDP growth rate o f 4 percent is comparable to the average rate recorded over the last
decade, but i s deemed to be on the conservative side in light o f both the much higher
growth rates recorded in 2004-06 and the recently revised growth and investment
projections by the government and private sector.              The significant improvement in
Panama's macroeconomic outlook has taken place in spite o f the rapid increase in
international oil prices since 2005, and appears to rest on increased optimism regardingthe
Canal widening project as well as the prospective agreement on a free trade area with the
United States.14

53.      The key public sector balances are estimated to strengthen further during 2006, as
the measures from the 2005 fiscal reform take effect, and assuming that the pensionreform


l4The World Bank is planning to prepare a Country Economic Memorandum for Panama inFY2007, which
will thoroughly analyze the country's mediumand long termmacroeconomic framework and outlook.

                                                  19

i s completed in a satisfactory manner so that the losses o f the CSS remain effectively
contained over the medium term. On the basis o fthese reforms, the NFPS primarybalance
improved from -0.7 percent o f GDP in 2004 to 1.2 percent in 2005, and is estimated to
improve to 1.6 percent in2006, when the full impact o f the fiscal reform materializes. This
improvement in the primary fiscal balance is expected to reduce the overall fiscal balance
to -2.7 percent o f GDP in 2006 and the total public debt ratio to 60.5 percent o f GDP by
end-2006. (These represent key outcome indicators for the fiscal reforms supported under
this DPL.) Over the medium-term, assuming the pension reform i s completed in a
satisfactory manner so that the losses o f the CSS remain effectively contained, these gains
will be sustained.

              Table 3: Panama:MediumTermDebt SustainabilityFramework
                                        (ConservativeScenario)
                                  (as %of GDP, unless noted otherwise)

                                               I Actual      I             Macro-Fiscal Scenario                I
                                                    2005        2006         2007         2008         2009
    Real GDP (% annual growth)*                      6.4         6.5          4.0          4.0         4.0
    CPI Inflationrate (average % change)             2.9         2.6          1.5          1.5          1.5
    Gross Domestic Investment                       19.2        19.2          19.5        19.5         19.5
    Gross National Savings                          14.8        14.6          14.5        14.4         14.7
         ConsolidatedNon-FinancialPublic Sector Indicators (excludes the operating surplus o fPCA)
    Public Sector Revenues                          22.4        22.6         22.7         23.1         23.5
    Public Sector Expenditures                      25.7        25.3         25.4         25.5         25.6
    Overall Balance, excl. the Canal                -3.2        -2.7          -2.6        -2.4         -2.1
    Primary Balance, excl. the Canal                 1.2          1.6         1.5          1.7         2.0
    Total Public Debt                               62.2        60.5         59.8         59.2         57.9
          ExternalSector Indicators
    Merchandise Exports (fob, incl. CFZ)            46.5        46.1         45.6         44.9         44.6
    Merchandise Imports (fob, incl. CFZ)            55.3        55.2         55.2         54.2         53.6
    Current account balance                         -5.3        -3.7          -4.4        -4.2         -4.0
    ExternalPublic Sector Debt                      49.0        48.9         48.8         48.6         47.6
    Source; Bank Staff baseline scenario. Note: *The GDP growth scenario in this table are based on conservative
    assumptions used in the 2006 Panama PER The government's recently elaboratedmediumterm fiscal Eramework for
    2007-09 is basedon areal GDP growth rate of6 percentper annum.

54.      A debt sustainability analysis carried out in the Panama PER (2006) (referred to
here as the "Conservative Scenario") suggests that the fiscal reforms implemented so far
have succeeded in averting a fiscal crisis, but they may not be sufficient to achieve the
Government's medium term objective o f reducing the overall fiscal deficit to 1percent o f
GDP and reducing the total (consolidated) public debt to 54 percent o f GDP by 2009.
According to that analysis, Panama's consolidated public debt, which stood at 63 percent
o f GDP at the end o f 2005, i s sustainable under the current macroeconomic parameter
settings, including the primary fiscal surplus o f 1.6 percent o f GDP expected for 2006, in
the sense o f placing the public debt ratio on a steadily declining trajectory (in the absence
o f destabilizing shocks). So, even ifthe fiscal and pension reforms passed in2005 do not
generate additional improvements inthe primary fiscal balance beyondthe gains projected




                                                      20

for 2006, there i s no immediate threat o f insolvency problem^.'^                          However, under the
conservative assumptions used in Table 3 (i.e., growth o f 4 percent for 2007-2009), the
pace at which the public debt ratio would decline over time would be very gradual. and
would not reach the government's medium term target level until 2012 or later. In that
case, Panama's public debt levels would continue to remain highbyregional standards, and
thereby may subject the country to correspondingly higher risk. Under this scenario, the
adoption o f additional fiscal measures would be desirable to reduce the country's potential
higher risk.16 That said, the outlook on Panama's macroeconomic prospects has improved
significantly over the course o f last year, pointing toward a faster mediumterm growth rate
than that used inTable 3. Inaddition, the government has been revising upwardits fiscal
revenue projections, particularly from the Canal, in light o f recent levels o f execution.
Both revisions, if borne out, will help the government achieve its fiscal targets over a
shorter time period, strengthening the Government's fiscal position, and offsetting the
potential higherrisk.

55.       A question raised inthis context is whether Panama's debt sustainability would be
adversely affected by the proposed Canal expansion project. It should not be. The
authorities have excluded the balances o f the Panama Canal Authority (PCA) from the
public sector fiscal accounts and have indicated that they do not intend to provide
sovereign guarantees for any debt that may be issued by the PCA to finance part o f the
Canal expansion project.17

          IV.     THE PROPOSEDPUBLICFINANCEAND INSTITUTIONAL
                                 DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

A. Link to the InterimStrategyNoteandFutureCountryPartnershipStrategy

56.       The proposedDevelopment Policy Loanis akey component o fthe two-year Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) that covers the World Bank's program in Panama for FY06-07.
Following a period o f scant World Bank- Panama engagement in the years prior to FY06,
the I S Nlays out a step-wise program to generate a more robust policy dialogue betweenthe


15 This finding, moreover, turns out to be fairly robust inthe face o f reasonable external and internal shocks.
A sensitivity analysis shows that the public debt ratio would remainwithin sustainable limits inthe advent o f
a temporary (3-year) decline in growth by one standard deviation and rise in real interest rates by one
standard deviation. Another sensitivity analysis indicates that Panama's public finances also could absorb a
3-year fiscal shock inthe form o f reductions inthe primary surplus o f 2.5 percent of GDP per year (which i s
roughly equal to the annual transfers from the PCA to the central government).
l6With respect to the pension reform, as indicated inparagraph 33, yearly actuarial audits would indicate the
need for any additional fiscal measures to either contain or compensate for any potential losses o f the pension
system.
l7 However, one cannot discard the possibility that in a hypothetical worst-case scenario an implicit
government guarantee would be called, given the canal's strategic importance for Panama's economy. While
this could potentially create a source o f fiscal vulnerability, the lack o f a perceptible capital market reaction to
the government announcement in June 2006 o f intentions to proceed with the canal expansion project
suggests that the markets view any potential increase in fiscal vulnerability as negligible. The PCA has
established a long track record o f financially sound and profitable business operations, and preliminary
estimates in the PER indicate that the net surplus currently generated from the canal operations (net o f toll
fees and dividends transferred to the central government) are enough to service the increase in PCA debt
currently envisaged under the Canal expansion project.

                                                         21

Bank andPanama and ultimately, anew results based CountryPartnership Strategy (FY08-
10). With a focus on analytical work and selective lending operations, the ISNprogram
supports strategic interventions that will contribute to longer-term achievement o f the
poverty reduction and improved income equality targets set out in the Government's
"Strategic Vision o fEconomic and Employment Development Towards 2009".

57.     In line with the Government's initial emphasis on restoring fiscal stability and
reinvigorating fiscal transparency and public financial management, the hterim Strategy
kicked-off with analytical reports in these areas: a Public Expenditure Review, and a
combined Country Financial Accountability andProcurement Assessment (prepared jointly
with the IDB), all o fwhich were discussed with Government inMarch 2006 and underpin
this proposed loan. Better hnctioningo f the State is seen as critical first step to boosting
investor confidence, including for expansion o f the Canal and other large-scale
infrastructure investments, and also as necessary for getting a bigger poverty pay-off from
the Government's social expenditures. The proposed Development Policyloan is timedto
engage the Government on the PER and CFAPAR analytical report findings as it further
defines its approach for reforming public financial management. The loan i s designed to
link immediate actions to concrete end-2006 results and medium-term program
benchmarks that could be supported through a possible DPL series in the context o f the
new CPS.

58.     A recently completed Poverty Assessment, which will be discussed with
Government in mid-2006, strengthens the analytical underpinnings for the Government's
flagship conditional cash transfer social assistance program which targets Panama's
neediest. The Bank and the IDB are providing additional support to the design androll out
o f the CCT initiative through a set o f Social Protection investment loans which are being
preparedjointly; a key component o f the Bank's ISN.'* Both the PER and the Poverty
Assessment confirm Panama's need to improve the targeting and efficiency o f public
service delivery and social assistance to increase the rate o f poverty reduction and reduce
inequality. As such, improvements in public financial management will be an important
ingredientinthe success o f Panama's flagship CCT program. A planned FY07 Bank loan
for a water and sanitation in low-income communities project will also help roll out more
efficient targeting and service deliverypractices.

59.     At the same time, the Government is working to improve growth and economic
opportunities for the poor so that social assistance becomes a short-term help, not a long-
term dependence. Here, the ISN plans additional analytical work in FY07: a CEWICA
which will look at the constraints to broad-based growth and an urban transport study
which will help underpin the Government's strategy to improve mass transit so urban poor
have better access to jobs. Finally, a two part project (GEF-IBRD) is moving ahead in
rural areas to increase income opportunities for the rural poor by linking farmers to
production changes, while helpingto conserve Panama's rich biodiversity (GEF approved
inFY06, IBRDcoming inFY07).




   The Bank-financed Social ProtectionLoan is scheduled for Boardpresentation 44 FY07.

                                                  22

60.     On October 22, 2006, Panama will hold a national referendum on whether or not to
proceed with expansion o f the Canal through construction o f a third set o f locks. The
outcome will set the stage for the next era o f Panama's economic development. A CPS
(FY08-10) i s scheduled for preparationin2007 to take account o f any policy and economic
outlook adjustments made inresponse to the referendum decision.

B. Operation Description

61.     The proposed Public Finance and Institutional Development Policy Loan is a one-
tranche operation in support o f the implementation o f the initial phase o f the Panamanian
government's new development program, as described in its Strategic Vision document.
This operation is conceived as a one-time operation, based on passage and implementation
o f fiscal stabilization and public financial management reforms which will achieve
substantial measurable outcomes by the end o f 2006. It i s also designed to facilitate a
policy dialogue with the Panamanian authorities and establish a framework that may
eventually be followed up with future DPLs under a programmatic framework. (The new
CPS (FY08-10) would take account o f Panama's further implementation progress as well
as the Government's interest in pursuing policy-based lending support from the World
Bank to guide lending instrument decisions.)     The borrower would be the Republic o f
Panama and the total proposed amount o f the loan is US$ 60 million equivalent, to be
made available upon loan effectiveness.

62.     The policy areas supported by the Public Finance and Institutional DPL focus on
the fiscal measures recently adopted by the Panamanian authorities to restore fiscal
discipline and improve fiscal management.        These areas are highlighted in Pillar 3
(Reorganization o f Public Finances) and Pillar 5 (Modernization o f the State) o f the
Government's development program. The specific measures which have been undertaken
as prior actions for presenting the Public Finance andInstitutional DPL to the IBRDBoard
o f Directors are presented in Table 4 and elaborated further inthe Policy Matrix inAnnex
2. They refer to the passage o f the Fiscal and Pension Reforms in 2005, the adoption o f
measures to improve fiscal transparency and budget management, and the preparation o f
legislationto improve the public procurement system.

63.     No triggers for a follow-up operation have been proposed, given that this DPL is
conceived as a one-time operation.      Nevertheless, the Policy Matrix in h e x 2 also
presents a series o f follow up actions being planned by the Authorities for the medium
term, which could serve as program tracking indicators andpossible benchmarks for future
policy-basedoperations.




                                             23

           Table 4: Actions Supportedbythe PublicFinance andInstitutionalDPL
                Policy Objectives                                  Status of Implementation

                                                      1.        Fiscal Equity Law (No. 6) was passed on
                                                      February 2005 and implementing regulations were
                                                      passedinOctober 2005.

                                                      2.        The Pension Reform Law (No. 51) was
2.       Containing the fiscal losses o f the CSS passed on December 25,              2005.   Implementing
through Congressional approval and satisfactory       regulations are under preparation.
implementation o fthe Pension Reform law.


1.       Enhanced fiscal transparency through (a)      1.       (a) MEF has been publishing fiscal balance
the systematic reporting o f fiscal information and reports each semester as o f 2005 and CGR has been
(b) the reductioninpayments arrears                   providing quarterly summaries as o f 2005;'' (b) end-
                                                      of-fiscal-year outstanding accruals were reduced from
                                                       13.1% o f central government expenditures in 2004 to
                                                       5.8% in2005.2o

2.       Improved budget management through the        2.       A medium-term budget framework (2007-
introduction o f a medium-term budget framework        2010) was formally introduced, as evidenced by the
(MTBF)   .                                            requirement in the 2007 Budget Policy to prepare a
                                                       Multi-Year Budget with aggregate projections o f
                                                      revenues, capital and recurrent expenditures.2'

3.       Reduction o f fiscal costs and improved       3.       The e-procurement system, PanamaCompra,
transparency through public procurement reform.        was launched in October 2005, and a new Public
                                                       Procurement Law (Ley 22), enacted on June 27,2006,
                                                       is expected to modernize procurement practices.


C. ExpectedOutcomes andMedium-TermGovernmentObjectives
64.       The measures supported in this operation represent important steps toward
achieving the medium-termprogram objectives that the Government has defined for itself,
even though additional measures are likely to be needed to reach those objectives by the
end o f its tenure o f office. Inthe near-term, success o f the reforms supported by this loan
will be evaluated based on outcomes measurable at the end of 2006 or early 2007; (Table
 5). Inthe area o f fiscal sustainability, these outcomes refer to the size o f the fiscal deficit,
o f the consolidated public debt and o f the fiscal balance of the pension system accounts in
the CSS at the end of 2006, all expressed as shares o f GDP. (The link between these
outcomes and the fiscal reform measures i s discussed in paragraph 53.) These targets can
be easily monitored through the fiscal information presented regularly by the MEF on its
web-page. Similarly, the financial accounts o f the CSS are published regularly on the CSS
web-page and would also be monitored regularly to identify a possible need for firther
measures to prevent any significant deterioration inits accounts. Table 5 also presents the
medium term government objectives relating to each o f these outcome indicators. These



 l9 Sources: MEF's reports on the Treasury General Account and on the NFPS Fiscal Execution; CGR's
 Annual Report.
 2oSource: CGR's Annual Report.
 21Source: MEF (Circular on Budget Policies for fiscal year 2007 issuedinJuly 2006).

                                                    24

are presented for overall program tracking purposes, in the understanding that they are
likelyto require additionalpolicy measuresbeyondthose supported under this operation.



     Policy Areas                  2006 OutcomeIndicators                     Program TrackingIndicators
                                                                                         (by 2010)
1. Fiscal Sustainability
    0    Fiscal Reform         NFPS deficit declines below 3% o f            NFPS deficit 5 1% o f GDP
                               GDP                                      0    Consolidatedpublic sector debt I
                          0    Consolidatedpublic debt falls to 61%          54% o f GDP
                               o f GDP
    0    Pension          0    Deficit o fpensionsystem (IVM) o f       0    Operational Deficit o f CSS (after
         Reform                CSS does not exceed 0.5% o f GDP.             transfers) 50.7% o f GDP



         Fiscal
         Transparency          informationon   fiscai performance, i.e.      budgetary and fiscal data inline with
                               through the publication o fperiodical         international good practice23[PEFA
                               fiscal balance reports comparable to          indicator No. 6 improves from C to
                               the previous year.22                          BI
                               End-of-fiscal-year outstanding           0    Stock o fpayments arrears falls below
                               accruals do not exceed 5% o f central         2% o f CG expenditures [PEFA
                               government expenditures in2006.               indicator No. 4 improves from D to
                                                                             B+]

    0    Budget            0   The Multi-Year Budget preparation             Enhancement o f policy-based
         Management            and review process increasesthe               budgeting through the development
                               government's ability to plan                  o f rolling medium-termbudgets that
                               strategically the use o f public              informthe preparationo f annual
                               resources  .24                                budgets [PEFA indicator No. 12


    0    Public            0   90% o f the public procurement offices
         Procurement           publishtheir procurement activities in
                               PanamaCompra;
                           0   Providers can access information o f
                               current status o f their requests for
                               payments.
                           0   Interestedproviders can obtain e-
                               notifications on current procurement



65.       In the areas of fiscal transparency and budget management, the focus of the
medium-termtargets is on the improvement o f fiscal data, reduction o f payment arrears
andthe development o f a medium-term budget framework. The key indicators to measure
progress in PFM in general, and in these three areas inparticular, would be based largely



22 Increases in transparency carry unquantifiable benefits, such as facilitating external scrutiny and
comparative analysis o f fiscal performance, which inturn enhance the government's financial accountability
framework.
23Increased application o f the Code o f Good Practices on Fiscal Transparency (IMF, 2005) and adoption o f a
planto migrate to the Government Finance Statistics Manual (GFSM) 2001.
24 Formal preparation o f a medium-termbudget perspective presents a number o f unquantifiable benefits,
such as facilitating the implementation o f policies sustainable from a fiscal perspective and the making of
better informed decisions on strategic allocation o fresources among sectors andprograms.

                                                         25

on the PEFA PFMPerformance Measurement F r a m e ~ o r kThe~baseline indicators were
                                                                                 . ~
developed under the CFAPAR.

66.       Inthe area of procurement reform, the targets also are still under discussion and
refer to (i)   improvement in the scoring o f the OECD baseline indicators; and (ii)                         better
value for money and improvement in the perception o f increased transparency and
efficiency. The first will be measured on the basis o fthe Baseline Indicator System (BIS)26
A baseline for Panama is being developed by the National Procurement Directorate under
the Bank loan. The exercise would be repeated in2008 inorder to measure improvement
in the medium-term.            The baseline for value for money and perception o f increased
transparency, efficiency and service delivery quality would be provided by an assessment
o f the purchasing strategy o f the Government which measures its efficiency and cost
effectiveness, and by simple, statistically relevant private sector surveys which will be
repeated in2008 to measure progress.

D. LessonsLearned

67.       The Bank provided two adjustment loans to Panama during the 1 9 9 0 ~ .The                            ~ ~
lessons learned from those operations are consistent with several general lessons captured
by the former Operations Evaluations Department in its evaluations o f Policy Reform
Loans inthe 1990s. Inparticular,

0    Multi-tranching contributes to slow program implementation, particularly if it makes
     the operationoverly complex,
0    Classical ex-post conditionality weakens reform ownership, and
0    Rapidly changingpolicy environments are difficult to anticipate inloan design.

68.       These lessons, as well as the latest thinking on Development Policy Lending for
well performing middle income countries, have influencedthe design o f this DPL, which is
premisedon the followingunderlyingprinciples:

0    Upfront action instead o f ex-post conditionality: This loan was motivated by the new
     government's commitment to build on the country's historical record o f policy
     performance by first consolidating fiscal accounts and embarking on a longer-term


"The Framework includes a set o f 28 indicators and has the following main objectives: (i) constitute an
                                                                                                    to
integrated framework to support the government and other stakeholders in monitoring the performance o f
country PFM systems, processes and institutions over time; and (ii)       to contribute to the PFM modernization
process, by determining the extent to which actions are yielding improved performance and by increasing the
ability to identify and learn from reform success. The framework has beendeveloped by Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA, 2005), an international partnership including, among others, the World
Bank and the IMF. Three indicators will be o f particular importance to the medium-tern government
objectives related to this DPL: PEFA indicators No. 6 (comprehensiveness o f information in budget
documentation), No. 4 (stock and monitoringo fpayment arrears), andNo. 12 (multi-year perspective infiscal
planning, expenditure policy andbudgeting). Additional information canbe found inwww.pefa.org.
26The BIS was developed by the OECD-DACiWorld Bank Joint-Venture on Procurement. This tool has several
purposes: (i)ensure consistent diagnostics by all donors; (ii)
                                                             help formulate strategiesto strengthensystems; (ii)
                                                                                                               enable
self-assessment andmonitoring; (iii)
                                   monitor progressperiodically againstagreed benchmarks; and (iv) measureprogress
inmeetingthe ParisDeclarationgoals.
27  An Economic Recovery Loan (approved in 1992, US$120 million,) and a Public Policy Reform
Adjustment Loan(1998, US$61million).

                                                          26

    program o f improving fiscal transparency and the efficiency o f public expenditure
    management.
    Support o f reform program instead o f specific conditionality. The DPL i s expected to
    provide a foundation for an on-going policy dialogue and World Bank support for the
    Government's public financial management reform program. This is expected to lead
    to a concrete set o f activities, including the possibility o f a programmatic DPL series in
    the context o f a new CAS.

E. CollaborationwiththeIMFandOtherDonors

69.      The Bank's country team has been collaborating with the IMF over the last year in
the review o f macroeconomic developments, including through the sharing o f Article IV
Consultation documents, Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC) and
BankESW. (Panama is onthe standard12-monthArticle IVconsultationcycle.)

70.      The Bank team also has been collaborating very closely with the IDB and UNDP,
especially in the sharing o f ESW. Recent background studies prepared for the IDB inthe
areas o f Taxation and PensionReform provided valuable inputs for the PER and this DPL,
as didbackground studies prepared for the UNDP inthe area o f social spending.28 Interms
o f lending and technical assistance operations, the IDB i s supporting several
complementary areas o f the government development strategy. Together, the World Bank-
supported Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project and an IDB loan to
Strengthen and Modernize Economic and Fiscal Management provide support to most o f
the government initiatives aiming to improve fiscal transparency and public financial
management; see Annexes 5 and 6. In addition, the IDB i s supporting Panama's fiscal
stabilization and improvements in the investment climate and trade adjustment through a
policy-based loan (PBL) that was approved inFebruary 2006. An accompanying technical
cooperation loan supports the Government with implementation o f the PBL's second
tranch conditions (see Annex 7). The World Bank and the IDB are coordinating support to
the Government under their programs, particularly in the areas o f fiscal stabilization and
public financial management reform.

F. AnalyticalUnderpinnings

71,      The Bankhas undertaken several recent studies that havehelpedto guide the design
and focus o f this lending operation.      These studies, which are in advanced draft form,
include the Public ExpenditureReview (PER, sent to the authorities in March 2006), a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment and Procurement Report (CFAPAR,
sent to the authorities in March 2006) and a Poverty Assessment (PA, sent to the
authorities in June 2006). The CFAPAR was prepared jointly with the IDB. Also, the
DPL has benefited from important background analyses prepared by IDB and UNDP,
which are referredto inparagraph 70.


  These studies include Armas de Mesa (2004), "Alternativas de Politica para la Reforma y Modernizaci6n
del Sistema de Pensiones de la CSS en Panad', IDB Consultant report, September 14, 2004, and Gomez
Sabaini, J.C. and Edison Gnazzo (2004), "El Sistema Tributario de Panad: Reformas Pendientes," IDB
Consultant report, September, and UNDP (2004), "Consultoria sobre la Identificacion de Programas para la
Construccionde una Redde Proteccion Social en Pananxi".

                                                  27

G. Consultations

72.     The Martin Torrijos Government was elected with a large majority in Congress,
giving it a clear mandate to move forward with a reform agenda. Accordingly, the Torrijos
administration presented its fiscal reform plan to Congress after only a few weeks in
power, and it was quickly ratified. Next on the agenda was the social security reform, also
ratified by Congress without much opposition.        These reforms were included in the
Democratic Revolutionary Party's platform and discussed extensively during the electoral
campaign, and subsequently were debated and ratified by Congress within the democratic
process. However, the social security reform was set back by vocal opposition groups,
whose representation in Congress had been weakened by the election. Some o f the more
radical groups succeeded in stirring up popular unrest and provoked violent street
manifestations that forced the Government to suspend the new pension law for an extended
period o f time. During that period, the Government broadened its consultations on the
CSS reform, in a more transparent process facilitated by the UNDP, which resulted in a
compromise solution that was acceptable to most parties. The lesson learned from this
experience i s that broad consultation processes, supported by dissemination o f relevant
information will be important to the successful advance o f the Government's ambitious
reform agenda. This lesson i s being applied by the Government through a more methodical
approach to the forthcoming Canal expansion referendum.

                       V.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. Povertyand SocialImpacts

73.     The specific actions supported by this DPL are likely to have overall positive
poverty and social impacts. As noted in paragraph 20, improving the quality o f public
financial and expenditure management i s critical for reducingpoverty given the large share
o f GDP allocated to the social sectors. The process o f carrying out the main expenditure
reduction measures included inthis loan involve some labor cost reductions from attrition,
rather than dismissals, and the main revenue-raising measures involve the increase in
corporate income tax revenues through the application o f a minimum tax. Further, as
indicated inthe PER, the contemplated changes inthe tax system are not expected to have
any significant impact on the distribution o f incomes in Panama (ref: para. 19). Also, as
indicated in footnote 11, the parametric changes introduced by the pension reform do not
substantially change the expected benefits o f the pension system for current contributors.
Some modest positive impact especially on small businesses can be anticipated through the
incorporation o fpreviously excluded seasonal and independent workers into the system.

74.     The general thrust o f country policies supported by this loan is expected to have a
positive impact on reducing poverty inPanama, especially when considered inconjunction
with other Government actions to improve the targeting o f social expenditures (including
through a Conditional Cash Transfer program that i s being development with World Bank
and IDB support).      This impact is expected to come about mainly through indirect
channels, namelyby removing an important obstacle to sustained growth and by improving
the efficiency o f government operations. Economic growth is widely acknowledged to be a
necessary condition for poverty reduction and the restoration o f fiscal discipline, which is


                                             28

supported by this DPL, in turn i s considered a necessary condition for growth. Similarly,
the improvements in public financial management and public procurement supported by
this operation are viewed as necessary for more strategic allocation, targeting and
management o fpublic funds.

B. Implementation,MonitoringandEvaluation

75.     Overall responsibility for the implementationo fthe Public Finance andInstitutional
DPL is expected to lie with the Ministry o f Economy and Finance (MEF), supported by
other line agencies and decentralized institutions, especially the social security institute
(CSS). The MEF and Bank have agreed to monitor progress in the program supported by
the DPL in the context o f the Implementation Completion Report for this loan and
preparations o f a new Country Partnership Strategy (programmed for the first quarter o f
FY08), with the MEF in charge o f collecting from the appropriate sources the data
necessary to assess implementation progress. Reviews between MEF and the Bank team
will aim to identifythe main strengths andweaknesses o fthe reform program, andpossible
assistance needs to sustain the forward momentum toward the government's planned
medium-term outcomes and address possible downside risks.

C. FiduciaryAspects

76.     In general, the public financial management and public procurement systems are
adequate for this operation. As noted earlier, the Bank has recently prepared a CFAPAR to
document the current state o f public financial management in the country, including the
actions taken by the current administration to further                increase transparency. While
challenges remain, the government i s moving ahead to further strengthen its public
fiduciary control framework, as described previously in Section III(part B). Inconnection
to this process, the Bank is engaged inpolicy dialogue with the government to follow up on
priorities identified in the CFAPAR. Drawing from this ongoing work, certain key actions
cited in Section IV (part A) were selectively introduced inthe DPLprogram.

D. Disbursements

77.     The Bank would make the single loan disbursement to the Ministry o f Finance's
Treasury Single Account ("Cuenta 210").              Since this account centralizes government
revenues for financing o f government spending, upon its deposit the DPL disbursement
will become available to finance budgeted expenditures. The account is denominated in
U S Dollar, which has legal tender in the country, and is held in the National Bank o f
Panama (BNP), which i s the financial agent o f government. Based on the review o f
external audit reports and the experience with special accounts for investment lending,
nothing came to the attention o f the Bank that would indicate that the banking control
environment into which the loan proceeds will flow i s other than adeq~ate.~'Upon the
Bank's request, the Ministry would provide the Bank with a written confirmation o f the
described transaction.


29An unqualified ("clean") audit opinion was issuedby external auditors on BNP's financial statements as of
December 31,2005, which was preparedinaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.


                                                   29

E. EnvironmentalAspects

78.      Specific actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have a significant effects
on the environment, forests or other natural resources.

F.ExpectedBenefits

79.      The actions supported by the proposed DPL are expected to benefit Panama by
enhancing macroeconomic stability, introducing greater transparency into public financial
management, and improving the efficiency o f public spending. These outcomes should
contribute to building investor confidence and improve the foundations for sustained
growth.

80.      The proposedDPL i s also expected to help Panama obtain better financial terms for
its public borrowings and diversify its external sources o f finance:
0   While Panama is a creditworthy country with ample access to world capital markets,
    the terms and conditions on IBRD loans tend to be significantly better than the terms
    that are currently available to Panama in private financial markets. Access to IBRD
    finance, therefore, would help reduce Panama's debt servicing burden.
0   Access to quick-disbursing finance i s particularly important for Panama in light o f its
    large external debt, which entails sizable annual debt roll-overs. This renders Panama's
    public finances very vulnerable to changing financial market conditions. The inclusion
    o f the World Bank as a new, additional source o f finance would help to diversify
    Panama sources o f finance and thus reduce the potential volatility o f market sentiment
    relevant to its borrowing needs.

G. RisksandRiskMitigation

81.      The success o f the reforms supported by this operation faces possible political and
economic risks. The key pieces o f legislation needed to significantly improve Panama's
fiscal position and promote greater transparency and efficiency in the PFM system have
already been passed and are under implementation. Political risks are still a consideration,
as the Torrijos administration may face pressure to weaken implementation or offer new
fiscal incentives (e.g., introduction o f new tax holidays) to gain support for the
Government's two remaining flagship efforts: the agreement on a free trade area with the
UnitedStates and the referendum on the expansion o f the Canal. Although bothinitiatives
appear to enjoy a majority support at this time, last year's experience with the passage o f
the pension reform suggests that voter sentiment can change quickly and that this can
threaten legislation even when there is congressional backing.30 This risk is mitigated by
the Government's own recognition o f the need to maintain strong fiscal balance sheet as it



30Aninitial pension reform passed by the legislature in early June 2005 was so unpopular the Government
entered into negotiations with the opposition at the end of June to quell protracted and unruly street protests.
The Government suspended the law for a 90 day negotiation period that was eventually extended into
November. A revised and less ambitious reform was passedinDecember 2005. The streets stayed quiet and
the President regained lost popularity.

                                                      30

moves forward with Canal expansion plans, and conduct a careful consultation and
information dissemination process inthe introduction o fnew policy initiatives.

82.     In the absence of the Canal's expansion, the country is likely to face a gradual
slowdown in trade-related service activities, as the Canal's traffic reaches its maximum
capacity.   Slower growth would weaken revenues and increase spending pressures,
threatening fiscal targets. The measures supported by the Public Finance and Institutional
DPL focus directly on reducing the first source of risk by helping the authorities to restore
fiscal balance and reduce the public sector debt burden.          The Government's Canal
expansion project is designed specifically to reduce the risk posed by the current size
limitations o f the Panama Canal. (The potential for fiscal risks to the government from the
expansion project are discussed inparagraph 55.).

83.     Other potential sources o f risks include a still high level o f the public debt, the
related need to continue to manage interest rate and maturity risk carefully, and the
possibility that various approved, but still pending, actions to complete the ongoing
pension reform (e.g., the approval o f implementing regulations) may become delayed or
remain unimplemented for unexpected reasons. In this context, it will also be important
for the Government to follow through with the system established for yearly independent
actuarial audits and take measures, as needed, to preserve the long-term viability o f the
CSS. The Bank i s seeking to mitigate these risks through the preparation o f timely ESW,
such as the PER and a forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum, to alert the
authorities about possible pitfalls and challenges in the economic, fiscal and social areas,
including the pension system.




                                             31

                                      ANNEXES
                ANNEX 1.LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY




                                            8PP-D-N-NO140 de 2006
                                              de septiembre




Sefior
Paul Wolfowitz
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington, D. C.

                                  Ref,: Carta de Politica Econdmica del Prestamo de
                                        Desarrollode Politica lnstitucional y de Finanzas
                                        Publicas

Estimado Seiior Presidente:

       Desde el inicio del ejercicio de las funciones de la actual administracibn, se
anunciaron las prioridades en la gestion p6blica; saneamiento de las finanzas publicas,
la reduccibn de la pobreza, la generacibn de empleos a traves del crecimiento
econdmico, la ejecucibn de un programa de inversiones publicas que sitviera de sustento
al crecimiento economico, la transparencia en la gesti6n publica y el combate a la
corrupcion.
       Nuestro diagnostic0 de la situacion economica establecib que la continuacion del
modelo dual de desarrollo-por      un lado, con un modern0 y cornpetitivo sector de
servicios, y por elgenera
                     otro, con un sector productor de bienes con bajos niveles de
prodwctividad-no             suficiente impulso para lograr reducir 10s niveles de
informalidad y desempleo. Este modelo economico dual no facilita el mejoramientode la
mala distribucibn del ingreso y hace mas dificil lograr una reduccion significativa de la
pobreza, especialmente en el interior de la Republica.

1.     1. La Estrategia del Gobiemo
       El Programa de Gobierno de la actual Administracion esta basado en cinco pilares
estrategicos cuyos objetivos y medidas se presentan a continuacion:
   1. Reduccion de la pobreza y mejora de la distribucibn del ingreso mediante un
       Programa de subsidios directos, focalizados a 10s mas necesitados,y la ejecucion




                                          32

                                      ....       ..     .       -.       ......I..- .-
                ~_ , _ _
                       ....       . .-              .I..




Paul Wolfowitz
PP-I)-N-N" 140
PaginaNO2


        de programas que fortalezcan la capacidad productiva de la econoania con la
        insercjdnat mercadode grupos excluidos.
   2. Una politica de crecimiento econ6mico para la generacibn de empleos
        fundamentadaen (i)el desarrollode un modelode apertura comercial,que incluys
        la firma de Tratados de tibre Comercio, especialmente con Estados Unidos de
        Norteamerica y otros bloques importantes; (ii)la promociirn ds una eeonornia de
        mercado,con neutralidadde incantivos;y (iii)potenciar el desarrollode la posicidn
        geografica, con la ampliacidn y moderniracidn del Canal de Panama, (iv) la
        desregulacidn de 10s rnermdos y la etiminacibn de las barreras de entrada a los
        misrnos, para asegurar igualdad de oportunidades para todos 10s ciudadanos,
        reducir la presenciade concentracionesy monopolios, y de esta manerafomentar
        la cornpetenciaen buscade una mbaja generalizadade precios.
   3, Saneamiento permanente de tas finanras plibiicas, accibn que es una
        precondicidnpara el desarrollo econdmicosostenible, con un manejo responsable
        de las finanzas pdblicasa corto plazoy reformas estructurales para el largo plazo.
        Estas reformas @starenacompatradas de un control estricto del gasto corriente,
        dande se time como objetivo la generacibn de ahorro pcbliw que permita
        financiar una porcionimportantede la inversidnp6blica.
   4. Desarrotlo de Capital Hurnano por medio de la reforma y n-todernizacibn del
        sistema educativo que incorpore el estudio de3 idioma hgl& la ?ecnofogiade
        cbmputo y tecnicas enpresariales, con el fin de brindar un entrenamiento
        adecuado a la fuerza laboral,
   5. Reforma y Madernizacidn del Estado que garantice la transparencia y ayude a
        erradicar la corrupciirn en el Sector Pljblico. Adem&, se busca reestructurar el
        sistema de planificaci&n de la accibn del Gobierno, incrernentdndose la
        participacion del sector privado dentro del componente de inversidn en
        infraestructura,
11.   LaGonduccidnIkcroeeonClmica
      AI inicio de esta adrninistracidn se enfrentaron graves problemas financieros
inmediatos y de mediano plazo, entre 10s que podemos citar wn alto nivel de
endeudamiento, un deficit fiscal insostenible, ahorro pirblico corriente negativo y serias
dificulfades en las finanzas de la Gaja del Seguro Social (CSS). Asi lrenemos que el
deficit del Sector Pirblico no Financier0{SPNF)pas6 de 81.623 millones en el 2003 a B/.
691 millones en el 2004, llegando a representar casi el 5% del Product0 lnterno Bruto
(PIB) en ambos aiios. Por su parte, el deteriora de las finantas de la Caja del Seglsro
Social se pus0 de manifiestocuando el ddficit actuarial del Prograrnade Invalidez,Vejez
y Muerte (IVM), segh la norma legal, pasb de 81.1,800 millones en 1999 a 8/.3,900
millones en el 2005; mientrasque el deficit actuarial total se eslirnll sntre 81.7 mil y W.10
mil millones. Lo anterior pus0 en peligrola sostenibilidad financiera del Estado,e incidi6




                                           33

Paul Wolfowit2
PP-D-N-N'I40
PQainaN"3


en el riesgo pals, situacibnque se agravo dada la falta de transparencia en el manejo de
las cuentasfiscales, durante la administracidnpasada,
     Nueshs matas a largo plao. LEIS metas de la Adrninistracibn son las de reducir
paulatinamenteel d4ficit fiscal, lograr un mayor ahorro plSblico para financiar el prograrna
de inversiones,disminuir el peso relativode la deuda publica y tensr un sistematributario
con mayorelasticidady equidad.
PrincipalesMedidasFlscales
       Solucionar fa crlslis fiscal ha sido prioritaria Las acciones de nuestra
Administracidn, $e han csntrado en restaurar la disciplina fiscal, sincerar las cuentas
fiscales y sanear las finanzas pliblicas. Est0 se ha logrado mediante la ejecucibn de
varias acciones,entre las cualesse incluyeel control del gasto, en particularel corriente,
y el aurnento en 10s ingresos. Estas medidas lograronreducir el dQficitfiscal del SPNF a
3.2% del PIE3 en el 2005. Para mejorarel balancefiscal, en febrera del 2005 el Gobierno
introdujo una reforma fiscal a traves de la Ley 6 de Equidad Fiscal, la cual incluye un
programa de reduccidn de gastos y una reestructuracidn del sistema tributario. Pos el
lado de 10s ingresos, la ley jmplanttfr, entre otms, un sistema de catlculo de impuestos a
{os ingresos brutos de las empresas, carno pago minima anticipada del irnpuesta de la
renta corporativa y elirninb un nunsro significativo de reglmenes preferenciales.
Tarnbibn se elimind la exoneracidn del pago de impuesta sobre la renta a 10s ingresos
personales de fuente extranjera que no cumplen ciertas condiciones. Se estima que la
nueva ley redundarA en un aurnento significativo de 10s Engresos tributarios, habiendoya
contribuido a un incremento de 0.9% del PI8 de 10s ingresos conientes del gobierno
central en 2005, cornparadoal2004.
       Par el lado del gasto pQfrli~o     tambien 88 5sth hacliendo fuertes esfuerzas
para contener el exceairo crrecimlenloobsewado en 10s Wirnos rtftos. Para lograr
y mantener un futuro balance de las cuentas del Estado, se ha establecido: (i)reducir el
empleo priblico, en 10s sectores no prioritarios,a 10s niveles del aAo 1999, en base a lo
que dicta la ley 6 del 2005 y (ii)limitar 10s gastos corrientes y adrninistraativos para que
esth en linea con 10s incrementos en la recaudacibn fiscal. Como primer resultado de
estos esfuerzos, et empleo pilblico total se ha reducido en 6,651 personas (0 sea 4% del
total) entre finales de 2004 y finales de 2005.
       Ss apmb6 la reforma de la Ley de la Caja del Seguro Social (CSS) con la
finalidad de reducir au ddficit. En diciembre del 2005, despues de un amplio didlogo
con la sociedad civil, se logrii un consenso sobre 10s cambios necesarios para restaurar
la sostenibilidad financiera y actuarial de 10s programas de la GSS, resolver
duplicaciones e inefidencias en 10s servicios de salud y aumentar la praductividad en
dicha institucibn. Actualmente, se trabaja en la reglamentacibn de esta Ley, con el
prQpbsito de completar 10s instrumentos legislativos necesarios para su carrecta
aplicacibn.




                                            34

PauIWolowitz
PP-D-N-W"140
PitgjnaN"4
-'-




        Durante estos ultirnos dos alios que acaban de concluir, la economia ha
respandido a las medidas de reforrna y a 10s estirnulos en la8 politicas pdbllcaa,
logrando un crecimiento de 7.6% en el 2004, 6.4% en el 2005 y para el 2006, dado el
fuerte crecimiento de 7.4% experimentado durante el primer semestke de este aiio, se
espera un crecimiento superior at obtenidaen el aPlo 2005. Estos niveles de crecimiento
se han fundamentado, primordialmente en el sector externo, a trav$s del fuette
 incremento en las exportaciones de 10s sectores ligados a 10s sewicios, tales como: la
 banca, turismo, puertos, el Canal de PanamQ y la Zona Libre de Cofdn, as1 corn0 el
 crecimiento en el sector domkstico,en particular la consttrucci6n. Las perspectivas para
 10s aiios venideros son muy favorables, debido al inicio de megaproyectos de inversibn
 en el sector construccidn entre 10s cuales se encuentra la modernizaciEjn de! Canal, el
 desarrollo de un Megapuerto en la costa Pacifica, la construccidn de modernastorres y
 wmplejos inrnobiliarios de alto costo, asi como, buenas perspectivas en las
 exportaciones. Por otro lado, se ha logrado una reduccion en el indice de desernpleo
 abierto, el cual paso de 7.6% en el 2005 y a 6.8% en el 2006.
        BU8Glm~?s    disminuir d riesgcr y la lmpartsncla rslatlva de la deuda pQbliEa.
 Con estas politicasse espera, a mediano y largo plazo, mejorar la calificacibn de riesgo
 soberano de la deuda pljblica y del pais, as1 como consolidar las condiciones
 macraeconbmicas que faciiiten el credmiento y desarrolio de Panam& Conjuntamente
 con las acciones tomadas, y con la finalidad de acelerar Ea disminucidn de la deuda,
 estamcs explorando mecanisrnos financieros para utilizar 10s activcrs del Estado en la
 reduccibnde Eos pasivosptiblicos.
 2009" Nuestra    WsiBn Estratdglcade tkcsarrollo EconCImlco y de Empleo hacia el
         constituye el marc0 prograrn8tiNco de nuwtraa invetslone9. Para el 2006 se
 estructur6el Presupuesto Generaldel Estadocon enfasis en el programade inversiones
 dado su efecto en el crecimiento econbmim y mayor generacidn de empleo. El
 presupuesto de inversiones alcanzd la surna de EY.836.9 millones, lo cual surnado a 10s
 m8s de BS.150.0 miltones de la Autoridad del Canal de Panamti, lo convierten en uno de
  10s mds elevados de 10s liltimos atios,
         Como hemos seiialado, el presupuesto se fundamenta en 10s objetivos
 delirnitados en 10s cinco pilares de la poiltica econbmica, asl tenernos que el
 "Saneamiento y Fortalecirniento de las Finanzas Publicas" se refleja en: (i) un aumenta
 en el ahorro corriente del gobierno por el orden de 10s 81.232.0 millones; (ii)el enfasisen
  bas invetsiones;y (iii) una reduccicin del deficit del SPNF del 3.2% en ef 2005 y al 2.9%
 del PI6 en el 2006 (4.9% en el 2004). La orientacion de! presupuesto se manifiesta
  hacia 10s objetivos estratdgicoso pilares de la politica pirblica, lo que tambidn se percibe
 claramente en el presupuestode inversiones. En efecto, el 47% se destina a inversiones
  rigadas ai crecimiento y generacidn de empleos (infraestructura e inversiones
 sectoriales), a su vez, un 24% se dedica a programas sociales y de reduccidn de la
  pobreza, mientras que un 23 % se orienta a invefsionesen capitalhumano.




                                             35

PaulWolfowitz
Pl?-D-N-N*140
PBginaN"5
                                                                                     0)




       Las logros fiscales alcanzados por la Administracicjn durante sus primeros 22
rneses son muy importantes, pero a h quedan acciones para mejorar, y retos para
ampliar el espectro de oportunidades de desarrollo para Panarnk          En particular, se
requiere un marco legal consistente con las matas de reduccidn de la deuda y
mantenimientode la estabilidadfiscal. En este contexto, se trabaja en una propuesta de
reformasa la Ley de ReactivacicjnEcondrnicay Responsabiiidad Fiscal(Ley 20 de 20023
con la finalidad de adaptarla a la estrategia fiscal y financiers del Gobierno y que defina
en forma clara las metas y objetivos de reduccibn de la deuda, 10s resultados y la
rnetodologia apropiada para la medicibndel deficit fiscal, asi corno, aspectos cualitativos
relacionados con la transparencia basados en las sugerencias del lnfome sabre la
Obsewancia de Cbdigos y Normas (IOCN) presentado por el Fondo Monetado
InternacionaIy otras entidades especializadas.
       Tambidn el Estado cuenta con activos que potencialmente pueden ayudar a
reducir la deuda.      Por consiguiente, se eatiin evaiuando aiternativas y estudios,
incluyendo la posibiiidad de venta, concesicjn y apertura al sector privado en ciertas
actividades actualmenteresewadas parael Estado.
       Metas fiseales de corto y mediano plaro. Et Gobierno ha estabiecido !as
siguientes metas de carta plazo para el arla 2006; i)DBficit esperado del SPNF sera de
2.9% respeda al PI6 (61484.4millones); ii) Deficit Operacionalpresupuestadode la CSS
es de 0.7% del PI5 (B/1!7.0 millones); iii) el nivel de Deuda Publica Consolidada
respecto at PfB serh de 61%; y a mediano plazo, es decir al aiio 2009, se espera tener
un deficit fiscal menor ai 1% del PIB, la relaciBn Deuda P6blica ConsotidadalPiB estara
alrededor del 54.4% y el Balance Operacional de la Caja de Seguro Social estaria
reflejando un superhit de 0.3% del PI8 nominal del aQlo2009. Para aicanzar estas
metas de mediano plazo, el Gobierno espera lclgrar aumentar e! total de !as
recaudacionestributarias por lo menos al9% del PI8 para el aiio 2009, y lograr reducirel
nurnero de 10s empleados pirblicos en aquellos sectores que no estdn regidas por leyes
especialesal nivelque prevaleciaen 4999.
111.      mdlo de PolCticsr InstituclanalFkcal
       Con le finalidad de hacer mas transparente la gestion fiscal ef Gobierno ha
adoptado un nuevo sisterna en las cornpras del Estado. En2005 la Administracibn lanz6
PanamaCornpra (Decreto Ejecutivo N'98 - Gaceta Oficial NO253781 mecanismo
disefiado para facilitar las contratacionesdel sector pljblico y herramienta para reducir la
corrupcidn a trav6s de mayor transparencia en la$ compras y contrataciones
gubernamentales. Bajo el nuevo sistema, todas las instituciones del Gobierno Central y
Entidades Autdnornas y Semiautbnomas, estaran obllgadas a publicar la informacibn
relacionada con 10s procesosde contratacidn pdblica para ser transmitida par medio del
sistema electrdnico de cantrataciones p0blicas. Tarnbih se ha aprobado la Ley N"22
del 27 de junio de 2006 ""Queregula la Contratacibn Pdblica y dicta Otras Disposiciones".
Esta ley llava la intencidn de modernizar y trasparentar las cuntrataciones y compras,
ademtis, haciendolasmas dgiles.




                                           36

PauIWolfowitz
PP-D-N-hra140
PdginaNQ6

       Tarnbien con el fin de lograr rnayor transparencia fiscal y la modernizacibn del
estado, e! Gobierno ha ernperado la irnplernentacibnde un prograrna para mejorar 10s
sistemas de gerencia financiera pljblica. Entre las principales medidas tomadas hasta
mediados de 2006, el Gobierno ha iniciado (i)la publicacibntrimestral por parte del MEF
y de la CGR de 10s balances fiscales del sector ptiblico, y (ii) un programa para reducir
10s atrasosfiscales en cuentas por pagar. Eneste respecto, se han Eogrado importantes
avances: 10s atrasos en cuentas por pagar, que representaban un 13.1 por ciento del
gasto total del gobierno central en 2004, fueron reducidos ai 5 8 por ciento del gasto total
en 2005. Otra importante iniciativa de Gobierno se refiere a la modernizacion del
sistema de presupuestopliblico, El Gobierno est&en procesode modernizarsu sistema
de presupuesto rnediante la introduccidn de un marco presupuestalde mediano plaza
(para 10s aAos 2007-2010) que formar&partedel Presupuesto Nacionata partir de 2007.
       En cuanto a las metas de corto y mediano plazo,en este campo, el Gobierno est&
en el proceso de finalizar un plan de acciones basadas en el informe "CFAPAR"
elaborado conjuntammte por el Banco Mundialy el Banco Interamericanode Desarrollo.
Entre las acciones pfaneadas, et Gobierno tiene la intencidn de continuar la publicacibn
trimestral de 10s balanGes fiscales y de reducir 10s montos de 10s atrasos en cuentas par
debajo del 5 por ciento del gasto total del gobierno central en 2006 y cerca def 2 por
ciento del gasto total en 2009. Par otro lado, en la rnedida que se obtenga mayor
experiencia con el nuevo marco presupuestal de mediano plaro, el Gobierno espera
evolucionar en el mediano plam hacia un sistema de presupuesto en base a resultados
con el fin de mejorar el impact0y eficiencia del gasto publico.
IV. AccionesClornplementadas.
       En este contexto, y para fortatecer el proceso de implementacidn de rsformas,
estamos solicitando el apoyo a la institucibnque Usted preside, para la consecucidn de
un Pr6stamo de Desarrollo de Politicas, que brindarh apoyo para reestablecer la
sostenibilidad fiscal y ayudara a mejotar la efectividad y productividad del gasto publico.
Adicional a las acciones contempladas, fa Administracidn se compromete a realizar las
siguientes acciones complementarias que profundizan la sostenibilidad de la agenda de
reformay darhn apoyo a 10s objetivasde la operaci6nsolicitada.
(I]    Se requfere un plan integral de acclones complementarias para la
       adaptacidn al fibre comercia Para apoyar la forrnufacionde politicas pliblicas
       que promuevan la inversidn y ias exportaciones, sera necesatio un plan para la
       elaboracicjn de una agenda complementaria, estructuras e instrumentus
       necesarios para su ejecucibn y mecanismosde consulta con el sector privado y la
       sociedad civil.
(ii)   Compromisos del Estado para mejorar el cllma de Inversiilln. Para fortalecer
       el dirna de inversiones y la mayor competitividad internacional,la estrategiade la
       Administracibn, en el mediano plaro, ham hincapieen: (i)la provisiljnde sewicios
       de infraestructura maritima (incluyendo la ampliacicjn del Canal) y aeroportuaria;




                                           37

                       - ...                                                                    _ _
                             I        .,.. ........................ .... ...... ......
                                                                               ~          ~    "




Paul Wolfowitz
PP-D-N-N"IJ0
P&:jna Nu?

       (ii) la promocidnde la inversidny las exportaciones; (iii)ampliar la cornpetencia en
       10s rnercados locales; (iv) la reduccirin de costos y baneras de transaccidn; (v} la
       innovacidntecnologica; y (vi} la gokrnabilidad y transparencia.
(iii) La AdmlnIstraicfrSn ha puesta Bnfasis en la apertura carnereial con la
       negoclacidndetmtadosde librecomercto.Con este objetivo, la Administracibn
       tiene el wrnprornisabe fortalecer el Ministeriade Comercio e lndustrias(MICI) en
       sus funciones de negociacilrin y adrninistraci6n de tratados y formulacidn de
       politicas pljblicasque apoyan el foment0 de la inversibny las exportaciones.
(W     $e tequlem madernlrar e! rnarco lnstltucional y jurldico que promuevan el
       sistema de mercado y rnejoren su funcionarnienta, Especificarnente se trata de
       ampliar y asegurar la cornpetencia y de bajar costos de transaccibn.                     La
       Administracirjn se cornpromete a llevar a cabo los estudios sectoriafes y legales
       que permitan elirninar barreras a la entrada y la falta de cornpetencia, asi como
       promover la defensa del consurnidor,
V. EnResiumen
       Considerando la visidn estratggica de esta AdminEstraci6n que contempla un
marc0 macroecom5mic.omnducente al desarrollo sostenible, la reducicidnde la pobreza,
y una apertura comercial en conjunto con 10s cambios de politica de sostenibilidad y
transparencia fiscal efectuados, tat y G ~ M O han sido resattados en esta carta,
considerarnos importante el apoyo del Banco Mundial a traves del Priistamo de
Llesarrollode Politica InstituGionaly de Finansas Pljblicas.

       Por lo anterior, el Gobierno de la Repdblicade Panama solicita la aprobacibn de!
Prestamocitado.

       Con las rnuestrasde mis mas alta consideracitrny estima le saludo.


                                                   Ateptarnente,



                                                   L                           Jarino R.
                                                   Minis?



DSJip




                                             38

            TRANSLATION OF LETTEROFDEVELOPMENT POLICY




                                       RepublicofPanama
                               MinistryofEconomyandFinance
                                     Office of the Minister

                                                    August 24,2006
                                                    PP-D-N-NO.140
Mr.PaulWolfowitz
President
World Bank
Washington, DC
                                          Ref.:Economic Policy Letter for the Loanto
                                          Develop Institutional Policy andPublic Finances
Dear Mr.Wolfowitz:

Ever since the current administration first took office, the priorities for public management
have been made public: rehabilitation o f public finances, poverty reduction, job
creation through economic growth, implementation o f a public investment program
that will help sustain economic growth, transparency in public management, and
combating corruption.

Our assessment o f the economic situation established that continuation o f the dual
development model-featuring,    on the one hand, a modem and competitive services sector
and, on the other hand, a goods-producing sector with low productivity levels-fails           to
generate sufficient impetus to make it possible to reduce the levels o f informal sector activity
and unemployment. This dual economic model does not facilitate improvement inthe poor
distribution o f income and makes it more difficult to achieve a significant reduction in
poverty, especially inPanama's interior.

I. TheGovernment'sStrategy
The current administration's Government Program i s based on five strategic pillars, for
which the objectives and associated measures are set forth below:

  1. Poverty reduction and improved income distribution through a program o f direct
       subsidies, focused on the poorest, and the implementation o f programs that
       strengthen the productive capacity o f the economy and bring disadvantaged groups
       into the market.
  2.   A policy o f economic growth for job creation, based on (i) development o f a
                                                                          the

                                             39

       model o f trade openness which includes the signing o f Free Trade Agreements,
       especially with the United States and other major blocs; (ii)   promotion o f a market
       economy, with neutrality as regards incentives; (iii)leveraging the country's
       geographic position, by expanding and modernizing the Panama Canal; and (iv)
       market deregulation and the elimination o f the entry barriers to them, so as to ensure
       equal opportunities for all citizens, reduce the presence o f business concentrations
       and monopolies, and thereby develop competition with a view to achieving
       generalized price reductions.
  3.   Permanent rehabilitation o f public finances, an action which is a precondition
       for sustainable economic development, with responsible management o f public
       finances in the short term and structural reforms for the long term. These
       reforms will be accompanied by strict control o f current spending, with the objective
       o f generating public savings that will make it possible to finance a substantial
       proportion o fpublic investment.
  4.   Development o f human capital by reforming and modernizing the educational
       system,   incorporating the       study o f English,      computer    technology,    and
       entrepreneurial techniques inorder to provide adequate training to the labor force.
  5.   Reform and modernization o f the State so as to guarantee transparency and help
       eradicate corruption in the public sector. An effort will also be made to restructure
       the system o f planning for the Government's actions while increasing the
       participation o f the private sector within the public investment component.

11.     Macroeconomic Policy Guidance
Upontakingoffice, this administration faced serious immediate and medium-term financial
problems, among which were a high level o f indebtedness, an unsustainable fiscal deficit,
negative current public saving, and serious problems inrespect o fthe finances o fthe Social
Security Fund (CSS). We found that the deficit o f the Nonfinancial Public Sector (NFPS)
rose from B/.623 million in2003 to B/.691 million in2004, representing nearly 5 percent
o f gross domestic product (GDP) in both years. For its part, the deterioration in the
finances o f the Social Security Fund became abundantly clear when the actuarial
deficit o f the Disability, Old Age, and Survivors (IVM) Program, as determined by
legal standards increased from B/. 1,800 million in 1999 to B/. 3,900 million in
2005, whereas the total actuarial deficit was estimated at between B/. 7 billion and
B/. 10 billion. This jeopardized the financial sustainability o f the State and had an
impact on country risk, a situation that was aggravated by the lack o f transparency in
the management o f the fiscal accounts duringthe previous administration.

Our long-term goals. The goals ofthe administration are gradually to reduce the fiscal deficit,
to achieve greaterpublic saving with a view to financing the investment program, to reduce the
relativeweight o fthe public debt, andto have a tax systemwith greater elasticity andequity.

PrincipalFiscal Measures
Solving the fiscal crisis has been a priority concern. The actions o f our administration
have been focused on restoring fiscal discipline, makingthe fiscal accounts more accurate,
and rehabilitating public finances. This has been achieved through various actions, among
the most important o fwhich are controlling spending, inparticular current expenditure, and
increasing revenue. These measures made it possible to cut the fiscal deficit o f the NFPS to

                                               40

3.2 percent o f GDP in2005. To improve the fiscal balance, inFebruary 2005 the Government
introduced a fiscal reform Law 6 on Fiscal Equity, which includes a spending reduction
program and a restructuring o f the tax system. On the revenue side, the law introduced,
among other things, a system for calculating taxes on the basis o f the gross incomes o f
businesses as a means o f determining the minimum advance payment o f the corporate
income tax and eliminated a significant number o fpreferential regimes. Also eliminated was
the exemption from payment o f the income tax on personal foreign-source income that failed
to meet certain conditions. It is estimated that the new law resulted ina significant increase in
tax revenue, as it has already contributed to an increase of 0.9 percent o f GDP inthe central
government's current revenue in2005, as compared to the 2004 level.

Strong efforts are also being made in terms of public expenditure with a view to
containing the excessive growth noted in recent years. To achieve and maintain balanced
State accounts inthe future, it has been decided to: (i) reduce public sector employment in
the nonpriority sectors to the 1999 levels, on the basis of the provisions o f Law 6 o f
2005; and (ii)limit current and administrative expenditure so as to keep them in line
with increases in fiscal revenue. As an initial consequence o f these efforts, total public
employment was reduced by 6,651 persons (or 4 percent of the total) between end-2004 and
end-2005.

Reform of the Law on the Social Security Fund (CSS) to reduce its deficit. InDecember
2005, after broad dialogue with civil society, a consensuswas reachedon the changesnecessary
in order to restore the financial and actuarial sustainability of CSS programs, resolve
duplications and inefficiencies inhealth services, and increase productivity in that institution.
Work i s currently in progress on the implementing regulations o f the new law in order to
supplement the legislative instruments necessaryfor its proper application.

Our country's economy has responded adequately. Duringthe two years soon drawing to
a close, the economy responded to the reform measures and public policy stimuli, achieving
growth o f 7.6 percent in2004,6.4 percent 2005, and, inlight o f the strong 7.4 percent growth
experienced in the first half o f 2006, growth is expected to exceed the level o f 2005. These
growth levels have stemmed primarilyfrom the external sector, throughthe strong increase in
services exports, for example inthe banking, tourism, ports, Panama Canal, and Col6n Free
Zone sectors, as well as from the domestic sector, particularly construction. The outlook for
the years ahead is quite favorable inview ofthe beginning o finvestment megaprojects inthe
construction sector, including the modernizationo fthe Canal, the development o fa Megaport
on the Pacific coast, the construction of modem towers and high-cost real estate complexes,
andbecause o f good export prospects as well. Moreover, there has been a reduction inthe
open unemployment index, which declined from 7.6 percent in2005 to 6.8 percent in2006.

We are endeavoringto reducethe risk and relative magnitude of the public debt. With these
policies it is to be hoped that, inthe mediumand long terms, we can improve the sovereignrisk
rating o fPanama's public debt as well as consolidatethe macroeconomic conditions that facilitate
the country's growth and development. In tandem with the actions taken, and with a view to
speeding debt reduction, we are exploring financial mechanisms for using the State's assets to
reducepublic liabilities.



                                                41

Our "Strategic Vision of Economic Development and Employment through 2009"
serves as the programmaticframework for our investments.For 2006, the General State
Budget was structured with emphasis on the investment program, given its impact on economic
growth and greater job creation. The investment budget totaled B/. 836.9 million, which,
when combined with the more than B/. 150.0 million in investment by the Panama Canal
Authority, makes it one o fthe largest inrecent years.

As noted earlier, the budget is based on the objectives delineated inthe five economic policy
pillars. Consequently, "Rehabilitation and Strengthening of Public Finances" is reflectedin:
(i) increaseintheGovernment's current savingontheorderofB/.282.0million; (ii)
    an
emphasis on investment; and (iii)reduction inthe deficit o f the NFPS from 3.2 percent of
                                   a
GDP in 2005 to 2.9 percent in 2006 (as compared to 4.9 percent in 2004). The budget is
manifestly aimed at hlfilling the strategic objectives or pillars o f public policy, as the
investment budget clearly shows. Indeed, 47 percent i s devoted to investments associated
with growth andjob creation (infrastructure andsectoral investment). Another 24 percent i s
devoted to social and poverty reduction programs, while some 23 percent goes for
investments inhuman capital.

The fiscal achievements o f the administration during its first 22 months in office are
quite substantial, but further actions are still required to improve, and there are
challenges in respect o f broadening the range o f development opportunities open to
Panama. In particular, there is a need for a legal framework compatible with the
goals o f debt reduction and the maintenance o f fiscal stability. Inthis context, work i s
ongoing on a reform proposal concerning the Economic Reactivation and Fiscal
Responsibility Law (Law 20 o f 2002) aimed at adapting it to the Government's fiscal and
financial strategy. The reform clearly defines the goals and objectives for debt reduction,
outcomes, and the proper methodology for measuring the fiscal deficit, and further
addresses qualitative issues relating to transparency based on the suggestions set forth in
the Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes (ROSC) prepared by the
International Monetary Fund and other specialized bodies.           Moreover, the State has
assets which have the potential o f helping to reduce the debt. In consequence,
alternatives are being evaluated and studies conducted in issues including the
possibility o f sales, concessioning, and the opening to the private sector o f certain
activities currently reserved to the State.

Short- and medium-term fiscal targets. The Government has established the
following short-term targets for 2006: (i) anticipated deficit o f the NFPS will be
                                              the
2.9 percent o f GDP (B/. 484.4 million); (ii) budgeted operating deficit o f the
                                                    the
CSS i s 0.7 percent o f GDP (B/. 117.0 million); (iii) ratio o f the consolidated
                                                              the
public debt in terms o f GDP will be 61 percent, and in the medium term, that is by
2009, it is expected that the fiscal deficit will amount to less than 1 percent o f GDP
while the ratio o f the consolidated public debt to GDP will be around 54.4 percent,
and the operational balance o f the Social Security Fund would show a surplus o f 0.3
percent o f nominal GDP for 2009. To reach these medium-term targets, the
Government hopes to increase total tax collection to at least 9 percent o f GDP in
2009, and to reduce the number o f public employees inthose sectors not governed by
special laws to their 1999 levels.

                                             42

111. Developmentof InstitutionalFiscal Policy

To enhance the transparency o f fiscal management, the Government has adopted a new
system o f State procurement. In 2005, the administration launched the Panama Buys
[Panamb Compra] program (Executive Decree No. 98, Gaceta OJiciaZ No. 25378), a
mechanism designed to facilitate public sector procurement and a tool to reduce
corruption by impartinggreater transparency to government procurement and contracting.
Under the new system, all Central Government institutions and autonomous and
semiautonomous entities are required to publish information on the public procurement
processes, to be conveyed by the computerized public procurement system. Law No. 22 o f
June 27, 2006 was also approved. It regulates public procurement and includes other
provisions aimed at modernizing, enhancing the transparency of, and increasing the
flexibility o fprocurement andcontracting.

Inafurther effortto achieve greaterfiscaltransparency andmodernizationofthe State, the
Government has begun to implement a program to improve public financial management
systems.Among the mainmeasurestaken through mid-2006, the Government has initiated:
(i)the quarterly publication of the public sector's fiscal balances by the Ministryof
Economy and Finance and the Audit Office (CGR); and (ii)     a program to reduce fiscal lags
in accounts payable. Inthis connection, significant progress has been made: arrears in
respect o f accounts payable, which represented 13.1 percent o f total central government
expenditure in 2004, were reduced to 5.8 percent o f total spending in 2005. A further
important initiative by the Government concerns the modernization o f the public
budgeting system. The Government i s inthe process o f modernizing its budgeting system
by introducing a medium-term budgetary framework (for the 2007-2010 period), which
will constitute part o fthe National Budgetbeginning in2007.

As regards the short- and medium-term goals, in this area the Government is currently
finalizing an action plan based on the "CFAPAR" report prepared jointly by the World
Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. Among the aspirations set forth, the
Government intends to continue publishing the fiscal balances quarterly and reducing the
amount o f arrears on accounts to less than 5 percent o f total Central Government
spendingin 2006, and to about 2 percent o f total spending by 2009. Moreover, as greater
experience is gained with the new medium-tern budgetary framework, the Government
hopes to transition inthe medium term toward a performance-based budget system with a
view to improving the impact and efficiency ofpublic spending.

IV. ComplementaryActions
In this context, and to strengthen the reform implementation process, we are requesting
support from the institution you head inthe form o f a Policy Development Loan, which will
provide support for re-establishing fiscal sustainability and will help improve the
effectiveness and productivity o f public spending. Inaddition to the actions contemplated,
the administration undertakes to carry out the following complementary actions which
buttress the sustainability o f the reform agenda and support the objectives o f the operation
requested:

(i)     A comprehensive plan of complementaryactions is requiredfor the adaptation
        to free trade. To support the formulation o f public policies that promote
        investment     and exports,      a plan will be required for preparing a

                                              43

        complementary agenda, developing the structures and instruments necessary
        for its implementation, and developing mechanisms for consultation with the
        private sector and civil society.

(ii) Statecommitmentstoimprovetheinvestmentclimate.Tostrengthenthe
        investment    climate     and     increase   international   competitiveness,     the
        administration's medium-term strategy will be focused on: (i)providing
        maritime infrastructure services (including expansion o f the Canal) and
        airport infrastructure services; (ii)   promoting investment and exports; (iii)
        increasing competition in the local markets; (iv) reducing transaction costs
        and barriers;     (v) technological innovation;        and (vi) governance and
        transparency.

(iii) The administrationhas emphasizedtrade openness andthe associated
        negotiation of free trade treaties. To this end, the administration has
        undertaken to strengthen the Ministry o f Trade and Industry (MCI) in respect
        o f its functions o f negotiating and administering treaties and formulating
        public policies that support the development o f investment and exports.

(iv)    There is a need to modernizethe institutionaland legal framework to promote
        the market system and improve its operation. Specifically, it i s necessaryto broaden
        and ensure competition andto lower transaction costs. The administration undertakes
        to conduct the sectoral and legal studies aimed at eliminating entry barriers and the
        lack o f competition, as well as to promote consumer protection.

 V. Summary

In light o f the strategic vision o f this administration, which encompasses a
macroeconomic       framework conducive          to   sustainable development,       poverty
reduction, and an opening o f trade in conjunction with policy changes supporting
sustainability and fiscal transparency, matters which have been discussed in this
letter, we consider it important to obtain support from the World Bank Through the
InstitutionalPolicy andPublic Finance Development Loan.

Accordingly, the Government o fthe Republic o fPanamarequeststhat the loaninquestionbe
approved.

Sincerelyyours,

Carlos A. Vallarino, Minister
DSIip




                                               44


              0    0     0




              0       0




m b o    0

3
cc
0
srd
b

.u
a
8.B
rd
0
0
N
4-
0




h
0
0
N
3
rd
8
.3
F4

           ANNEX 3. MAINMEASURES OF THE 2005 FISCALREFORM (LAW 6)
                 Tax Measures                                 Expenditure Measures                            Other Measures
The corporate income tax i s maintained at 30       Reduction of the replacement rate of           Increase in fees paid by business in the
percent in 2005 against a scheduled lowering to     vacancies in the civil service, by 30 percent  Colon Free Zone, by an additional
29 percent under the 2002 tax reform.               in 2005 and additional 20 percent in 2006,     US%30million in2005.
                                                    and 10 percent in 2007. Vacancies for
                                                    certain   categories falling under special
                                                    regulations (leyes especiales) would not be
                                                    reduced.

The introduction in 2006 of a minimum tax on        By January 2008, staff in every public         Cancellation of the 2004 Industrial
individual income, amounting to 6 percent of        institution should not exceed the personnel at Development and Incentive Act (Law
gross income for individuals earning at least US$   the end of December 1999. Exceptions are       11).
60,000 annually. Individuals earning only wages     made for health, education, and security
are exempt from this tax.                           services. The number of contractual workers
                                                    also would be limited.
The maximum income tax rate for individuals i s     Starting in January 2006, the percentage       Continued tax incentives for home
reduced from 30 to 27 percent.                      increase in primary expenditure should not     improvement.
                                                    exceed the percentage increase in current
                                                    revenueof the precedingyear.

The introduction in 2006 of a minimum tax           The use of cell phones, automobiles, and       Elimination    of   reforestation    tax
income of 1.4 percent of sales for businesses. The  consultants would be controlled. Air travel    incentives in2005.
minimumincome tax cannot result inan effective      costs would be contained.
tax rate on realized profits greater than 30
percent.

Sales of services within the Colon Free Zone are                                                   Tax    incentives   of   non-traditional
liable to income tax.                                                                              exports (CATS)would be eliminated by
                                                                                                   the end of 2005.

Increase in the annual business registration fee                                                   Heavier sanctions for non-compliance
(Tasa Unica) from US250 to US$300.                                                                 with tax laws.

Full inclusion of representation expenses as                                                       Business     will   have    to    adopt
taxable income. (Private sector could previously                                                   international accounting and auditing
exempt 25% of representation expenses from                                                         standards.
taxation -but no longer.)

Amounts in excess of US$300 won in casinos are
subject to a Selective Consumption Tax.

Narrowing of the definition of tax exempt income
of foreign origin. The sale of services abroad by
Panamanian taxpayers i s now subject to a
withholding tax of 15%.

Reduced real estate tax schedule, conditional on
the provision of an updatedproperty valuation.

Exemption of IBTMS for fast food business.

IncreasedIBTMS rate on tobacco to 15 percent.

Eliminated     I B T M S   exemptions    for    all
government agencies (except CSS and ACP) on
certain services.

Increasedtax rate on foreign remittances from 6%
to 15%, except on pension income.

Reduced the maximal amount of deductions from
taxable income for charitable donations to
$50,000 for individuals and 10% of gross sales
for businesses.

Confirmed that all in-kind income i s subject to
taxation at the full rate.
Source: Law 6 of February 2,2005



                                                                   48

                       ANNEX 4. FUNDRELATIONS NOTE (March 2006)
            IMFExecutiveBoardConcludes2005 ArticleIVConsultationwithPanama
                         Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 06/29. March 14, 2006




          ments. PINSare also issued after Executive Boarddiscussions of general policy matters,
           therwise decidedby the Executive Board ina particular case. The staffreport for the Article
       nsultation with Panama may be made available at a later stage ifthe authorities consent.


OnFebruary 15,2006, the Executive Board o f the InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) concluded the
Article IVconsultationwith Panama.'

Background

Despite the adverse impact o f the surge in world oil prices, real GDP i s estimated to have expanded
by 5.5 percent in2005 following growth o f 7.6 percent in2004, while unemployment fell
substantially to 9.6 percent o f the labor force, and the external position improved. Inflation has
remainedlow, but rose to 3.4 percent due to the pass-through o f increases inoil prices.

As a result o f the strong economy and new legislation to enhance revenues and curtail outlays, the
deficit i s estimated to have fallen somewhat below the target o f 3.6 percent o f GDP in2005. The
declining trend in tax revenue was reversed, non-tax revenue recovered, and current expenditure fell
significantly owing to a cautious wage policy and enhanced spending discipline. An improvement in
the quality o f government spending and a more rapid repayment o f arrears to suppliers were also
achieved. The Assembly approved a reform to address the imbalance o f the pension system by
adjusting contributions and eligibility of the defined benefits component and adding a system o f
individual accounts.

Strong supervision and regulation have helped preserve the soundness o f the banking system, which
continues to be well capitalized, highly profitable and largely compliant with the Base1 Core
Principles. As a result o f strong credit growth, bank liquidityhas declined, but remains at comfortable
levels. The government has accessed international markets at favorable terms, and has launched a
programto improve the maturity structure o f external liabilities.

Efforts to improve market relations with key trading partners are underway. Free trade agreements
(FTA) with Singapore and Chile have been negotiated and negotiations on a FTA with the United
States are ongoing.

In 2006, economic growth is expected to moderate to 4.5 percent, inflation to remain low, at
1.9 percent, and the external position to improve further. While exports of services would benefit
fkom an encouraging external environment and construction i s expected to pick up, high oil and
electricity prices would dampen consumption and investment. The administration i s committed to
reducing the nonfinancial public sector deficit to 2.9 percent o f GDP.

ExecutiveBoardAssessment

Executive Directors commended the authorities for Panama's solid economic performance in2005,
including strong economic growth and a reduction in unemployment, which should contribute to

                                                    49

poverty reduction. Significant progress was made instrengthening public finances and a major reform
o f the social security system was introduced. The strengthened fiscal position has allowed Panama to
access international markets at more favorable conditions and facilitated debt management
operations. At the same time, Directors observed that a more ambitious medium-term fiscal policy
framework than currently envisaged would help consolidate further the recent strong macroeconomic
performance. They also called for continued efforts to reduce poverty and ensure that the benefits o f
economic growth are more evenly shared across all segments o f the population.

Directors welcomed the ongoing fiscal consolidation effort, but noted that it i s crucial to build on the
recent achievements to attain a rapid decline in the debt to GDP ratio, which, at 63 percent o f GDP,
remains high and makes the economy vulnerable. They welcomed the authorities' intention to adopt
policies aimed at a fiscal deficit target o f 1percent o f GDP by the end o f the administration, in2009.
To this end, Directors pointed out that further fiscal measures will needto be identified, including to
offset the possible fiscal impact o f a potential free trade agreement with the United States. In
particular, Directors recommended measures to help raise the low tax revenue by broadeningthe tax
base-in    particular by reducing tax exemptions-and       upgrading tax administration, while improving
spending efficiency and reducing subsidies. This will also help create room for higher spending on
poverty reduction programs. To help boost investors' confidence and contribute to sustained high
growth andjob creation, Directors noted that further measures will be needed over the medium term
to help reduce public debt to a more manageable level, with several Directors indicating that a debt
ratio o f less than 40 percent o f GDPby 2015 would be desirable.

Directors commended the recently approved social security reform, which i s expected to address the
actuarial deficit o f the system, and was prepared with exemplary civil society engagement. Increased
contributions, less generous eligibility requirements, higher but specified government transfers, and a
new system o f individual accounts will put the Social Security Agency (SSA) on a sound financial
footing, address the contingent liability o f the central government, and provide more certain
retirement benefits to employees. Directors noted that the increased government transfers to the
SSA-in      accordance with the l a w - c a l l for additional fiscal measures to help achieve the fiscal
targets.

Directors stressed the importance o f an early reintroduction o f the planned fiscal responsibility law.
The new law needs to move beyond numerical targets, focusing on transparency requirements,
procedural rules, monitoring systems, sanctions, and enforcing mechanisms. Directors noted that the
law could provide an opportunity to bringin frequent reporting o f the operations o f all non-financial
public sector entities, with well definedprocedures to minimize fiscal risks.

Directors shared the view that the envisaged major infrastructure projects should strengthen the
economy's capacity to respond to increasing global trade. They noted that a decision to expand the
Panama Canal would have major implications for the country's medium-term growth prospects, the
structure o f the economy and the types o f skills the economy will require, and could help reduce
poverty significantly. In addition, economic growth will also be fueled by other infrastructure
projects, including modernization o f ports and upgraded energy provision. Directors stressed that a
comprehensive feasibility assessment o f all these projects-including     an assessment o fPanama's debt
implications-will     be necessary to guide decisions.

Directors commended the authorities' commitment to preserve the soundness o f Panama's banking
system. They supported the envisaged policies to strengthen the management o f market risk by banks
and enhance consolidated supervision o f holding companies and cross-border supervision o f regional
conglomerates. Directors welcomed the authorities' readiness to reinforce banks' surveillance and to
encourage continued maintenance o f adequate bank liquidity. They encouraged further efforts at
strengthening and harmonizing the supervisory arrangements for non-bank deposit tahng institutions
and for the National Bank o f Panama. Directors welcomed the substantial progress made in

                                                      50

implementingregulations to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism, while urging
the authorities to continue their efforts to address remainingweaknesses.

While conventional indicators point to adequate competitiveness o f Panama's economy, Directors
called for further enhancements in structural areas, especially by upgrading the quality of human
capital, improving the business environment, and continuing to promote good governance. Directors
were of the opinion that greater labor market flexibility could be achieved by extending the flexible
employment practices o f the special economic zone to generate employment opportunities in other
sectors of the economy.

Directors encouraged the authorities' to take the opportunity o f the ongoing data ROSC to further
improve the quality, timeliness, and coverage o f economic data.

                                   Panama: Selected Economic Indicators
                                                                                           Proj.   Proj. 1/

                                                       2002         2003            2004   2005      2006

                                 (Annualpercentagechange, unlessotherwise indicated)

 Real economy

 Nominal GDP                                              3.9          5.4           9.8    7.3       6.8

 Real GDP (1996 prices)                                   2.2         4.2            7.6    5.5       4.5

 Consumerpriceindex 21                                    1.8        -0.3            1.6    3.4       1.9

 Unemployment                                           13.5         13.1           11.8    9.6         ...

 Money and credit

 Broadmoney31                                             0.9         4.6            8.6    5.8       7.2

 Credit to private sector                               -7.2           2.0          10.4   11.8       7.6

 Depositrate (1 year) 4/                                  4.5          3.6           2.5    3.1         ...
                                     (Inpercentof GDP, unlessotherwiseindicated)

 Savings and investment

 Grossdomestic investment                               18.0         21.3           20.7   19.5      21.4

 National savings                                       17.2         17.5           12.8   14.4      16.8

 Externalsavings                                          0.8          3.9           7.9    5.1       4.6

 External sector

 Currentaccount                                         -0.8          -3.9          -7.9   -5.1      -4.6

 Capitalandfinancialaccount                               3.0          1.o           3.2    9.0       4.3

 Realeffectiveexchange rate (depreciation-) 51          -0.1          -7.3          -4.0   -0.6         ...
 Externalpublic debt                                    51.7         50.3           50.8   50.1     48.9

 Nonfinancialpublic sector

 Revenueandgrants                                       22.9         22.3           21.1   22.1      23.0

 Expenditure                                            26.2         27.0           26.0   25.5      25.9

 Balance, excludingCanalAuthority                        -3.3        -4.7           -4.9   -3.4      -2.9

 CanalAuthority 6/                                        0.5          1.o           1.0    1.1       1.o



                                                          51

Balance, including Canal Authority                                -2.7          -3.7            -3.9         -2.3             -1.9

Sources: Panamanianauthorities; and JMF staff estimates and projections.
 I/Fundstaffprojections.
21Endof period.
3/ Correspondsto cash incirculation plus total privatesector deposits in the banking system.
4/ Data through September 2005.
5/ For 2005, data throughOctober.
6/ Balanceof CanalAuthority, after transfers of Canalfees and distribution ofprofits to the government.
' Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussionswith members, usually every year. A staff team
visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's economic developments and
policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this
summaryis transmitted to the country's authorities.

IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
PublicAffairs                  Media Relations
Phone:202-623-7300 Phone: 202-623-7100
Fax: 202-623-6278 Fax:                   202-623-6772




                                                                   52

             ANNEX 5. The PublicPolicyReformTechnicalAssistanceProject
                                      (financed byWorld Bank)

         This project was approved by the World Bank Board o f Executive Directors in FY02. The
objective o f the project i s to consolidate and deepen the reforms needed to accelerate growth and
reduce poverty, by strengthening the government's economic monitoring and planning, policy
formulation and execution capacity in four areas: (i)   promoting trade reform and liberalization; (ii)
contributing to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by strengthening the overall capacity
o f the government to monitor economic data and improve macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation; (iii)  improving the quality o f poverty data and information on social expenditures so
as to increase the relevance, efficiency and targeting o f social programs; and (iv) improving the
efficiency and transparency inpublic procurement.

         The public procurement component i s supporting three areas o f reform:
1. Improving the public procurement legal fkamework. This sub-component supports an overall
     review o f existing procurement and related regulations, and the drafting and processing o f an
     amendment to Law 56, and comprehensive regulatory decree, using a participatory mechanism
     (workshops) to involve all stakeholders. The amendment to the Public Procurement Law would
     aim at strengthening the lead policy, regulatory and institution building role o f the DCP, closing
     existing loopholes, and removing inconsistencies.
2. Building institutional capacity for handling procurement. The government believes that it i s
     necessary to strengthen the capacity for handling public procurement and this sub-component
     supports the strengthening o f the DCP and the government agencies' procurementunits to provide
     them with the resources to carry out their duties and to undertake a phased program aimed at: (i)
     developing standard procedures and bidding documents o f general application nationwide; (ii)
     reviewing and adjustingprocedures; (iii)  developing and implementing a human resources policy;
     (iv) carrying out an assessment o f available humanresources; and (v) designing and implementing
     a training program for procurement officials.
3. Developing a public procurement system. This sub-component supports the establishment o f a
     Public Procurement Information System and setting the basis for Electronic Government
     Procurement (EGP). The project finances technical assistance, training and equipment for the
     development ifthis system.

         The government has recently refocusedthe procurement sub-component as part o f the policy
dialogue carried out during preparation o f the CPAR (2006), including some o f its recommendations.
For example, selection processes are underway to retain consultants who will help the DCP develop
an overall reform strategy, prepare baseline indicators utilizing the OECD-DAC Procurement Joint
Venture BIS tool, reviewing administrative processes to identify inefficiencies and bottlenecks, and
carry out transparency perception surveys. Furthermore, under the TA operation, the World Bank will
support GOP's actions aimed at implementing the new procurement law. These actions include,
among others: a) drafting regulations and procedures required for the implementation o f the new
procurement system; b) developing an e-procurement strategy; c) and providing office and IT
equipment and capacity buildingto the new autonomous DCP.




                                                    53

        ANNEX 6. The Programto StrengthenandModernizeEconomic and Fiscal
                                              Management
                                          (financed bythe IDB)

The main objective o f the 2nd phase o f the program i s to increase public sector efficiency and
effectiveness in the economic and fiscal spheres. The objectives o f the Loan were reviewed recently
with the government, following the change o f administration. The agreed goals were defined as
follows: (i) enhance the MEF's planning capacity; (ii)     strengthen financial management; (iii)  make
tax collection more efficient and effective; (iv) improve the quality o f public investment; (v) expand
the management and oversight capacity o f the customs administration; and (vi) strengthen the
institutions o f the land-registry system.

To help the Government carry out its plans for improving budget management, the loan i s supporting:

a   The Budget Directorate (DIPRENA). To improve budget management and make it more
    expeditious, accurate, and transparent, through (i)design a methodology to review the
    programming structure o f the national budget, and introduce a multi year budget programming;
    (ii) adiagnosticstudyofthecurrentprogrammingstructure;(iii) andimplementa
         conduct                                                                 define
    new programming structure aimed at making the budget a means for administering public
    management and assessing its performance in physical and financial terms; (iv) incorporate the
    interface with the public revenue subsystem into the budget cycle; and (v) train its staff inthe new
    methodologies adopted.
0   The strengthening o f the "control tower"-an       information system built on a Web application
     coupled with Intranet-based communication as a core component o f the SINIP-that       will provide
     information on the public sector's investment project portfolio to the entire country.

To address payment arrears the loan i s supporting:

     The General Treasury Directorate (DGT). Plans are to reduce the government's current financing
     expenditures by: (i)  consolidating efforts within the operation o f the Treasury, reducing the time
     for payment to service providers from 120 to 30 days; and (ii)carrying out the program to
     implement an integratedaccount system inthe Treasury.

Other parts o f the loan are supporting:

a    The Public Debt Directorate (DCP) to improve external and internal debt management will reduce
     the costs o f managingthe public debt.
a    The National Accounting Directorate (DNC) to further modernize accounting practices.
     Broadening o f SIAFPA throughout the public sector.
a    Various components aimed at strengthening the effectiveness o f the tax system.




                                                    54

            ANNEX 7. TheInvestmentClimateandTradeAdjustmentProgram
                                         (financedbythe IDB)

        The operation addresses some of the factors necessaryfor sustained, higher economic growth.
Evidence shows that achieving higher growth depends not only on creating the appropriate
macroeconomic conditions and trade openness, but also on initiatives that enhance the economy's
supply capacity. Taking this into account, the operation is divided into two pillars: (i)fiscal
stabilization, and (ii)
                      improvements inthe investment climate and trade adjustment.

        The first pillar o f the operation recognizes the advances made in stabilizing the fiscal deficit
and debt as a result of recent reforms introduced by the Tonijos administration. The second pillar
focuses on creating an investment climate conducive to greater private sector participation in
infrastructure provision (airports and ports); lower transactions cost (improvements in market
competition and institutional reforms); raising labor productivity and innovation; developing a
strategic framework to adjust to free trade (energy, investment, and trade); and addressing corruption
and transparency issues.

         The loan is being disbursed intwo tranches subject to the conditions presented inthe Policy
Matrix of up to US$70 million and US$30 million, respectively. The conditions for the first tranche
were met and disbursement was made following Board approval o f the loan operation. The second
tranche disbursement i s expected within 18 months of the initial disbursement.




                                                   55

ANNEX 8.
 Panama at a glance                                                                                                                       9/8/08

                                                                                     Latin                  I
                                                                                               Upper
Key Development Indicators                                                       America       middle
                                                                   Panama        & Carib.     income         AQedistribution, 2005
(2005)                                                                                                                   Male             Female

Population,mid-year(millions)                                            3.2          551        599
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                             76        20.418     30,135
Populationgrowth (%)                                                     1.8           1.3       0.4
Urbanpopulation(% of total population)                                   58            78         72

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       15.0         2,210      3,388
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                     4,630         4.008      5,625
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                  7,310         0,111     10,924

GDP growth (Oh)                                                         6.4            4.4       5.5             15     10   5      0   6    10     16
GDP per capitagrowth(    O h )                                          4.5            3.1       5.0                            percent

(mostrecent estimate,200&2005)
                                                                                                            7
Poverty headcountratioat $1 a day (PPP,%)                                  7             9
Povertyheadcountratioat $2 a day (PPP, %)                                17            23                    Under-5mortalityfate (per 1,000)
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                          75            72         69
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                                   19            27         23
Child malnutrition(Ye of childrenunder5)                                                 7         7

Adult literacy,male (% of ages 15 and older)                             93            91         95
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15and older)                            91            90         92
Gross primaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                           114           121        108
Gross primaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                         111           117        106

Accessto an improvedwater source (YOof population)                       90            91         94
Accessto improvedsanitation facilities (Oh of population)                73            77         84                  lee0   1886    2WO  2CC4


                                                                                                               0Panama EILatinAmenca8the Canbbean


Net Aid Flows                                              1S80       1sso          2000        2005 a

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                       46        100            17         38         Growthof GDP and GDP percapita (Oh)
Top 3 donors(in 2004):
  UnitedStates                                                15         97            -9          9
  Spain                                                                   6            13          7
  Japan                                                        2          2             3          8

Aid (% of GNI)                                               1.3        2.0            0.1       0.3
Aid per capita (US$)                                          23         41             6         12

Long-Term EconomicTrends

Consumer prices(annual% change)                             13.8        0.8            1.5       0.4
GDP implicit deflator (annual% change)                     33.7         0.6           -1.2       2.4           --O-GDP           -GDP     per capita
Exchange rate (annualaverage, local perUS$)                  1.o        1.0            1.0       1.0
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)                             90          94           100         99
                                                                                                              1980-SO     1990-2000     200045
                                                                                                                    (average annualgrowth %)
Population, mid-year(millions)                               1.9        2.4           2.9        3.2                2.1          2.0        1.0
GDP (US$ millions)                                       3,810        5,313        11,621     15,467                0.5          4.7        4.3
                                                                        ("Aof GDP)
Agriculture                                                  8.9        9.8           7.2        7.7                2.5          3.1        4.0
Industry                                                   19.5        15.1          19.1       16.4               -1.3          8.0        1.6
  Manufacturing                                            11.o         9.7          10.1        7.8                0.4          2.7       -1.4
Services                                                   71.5        75.1          73.6       75.9                0.7          4.5        4.8
Householdfinal consumption expenditure                     44.9        58.9          59.9       73.1                3.8          6.4        8.0
General gov`t final consumptionexpenditure                 17.6        18.1          13.2       11.5                1.2          1.7        3.4
Gross capitalformation                                     28.f        18.8          24.1       19.4               -9.2         10.4        3.2

Exportsof goods and services                               98.2        86.8          72.6       68.5               0.4          -0.4        1.0
Importsof goods and services                               80.0        78.6         69.8        72.5                1.o          1.2        3.7
Gross savings                                              27.6        24.2          23.1        9.7


Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates. indicatesdata are notavailable.
                                                                                                    ..
a. Aid data are for 2004.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).


                                                                              56

                                                                                                                                                       Panama

Balance of Paymentsand Trade                          2000       2005
                                                                                    Sovernance indicators, 2000 and 2004
(US$mi//ionsj
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                       5,838       7,188
Total merchandise imports (ci9                       7,655       9,963               Voice and accountabillty
Net trade in goods and services                        -279         75                        Politicalstability
Workers' remittances and
 compensation of employees(receipts)                     16        128                     Regulatoryquality


Current account balance                                -715       -818                             Ruleof law
 as a % of GDP                                         -6.2        -5.3                  Controlof conuption

Reselves,includinggold                                  707      1,211                                          0     25           50          75        100


Central Government Finance                                                                 E4 2004                Country'spercentilerank (0-100)
                                                                                           02000                    higher valuesnn@y bene, ratns3

(% of GDP)
Revenue                                                18.2       15.0              Source Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastnrzzl,Woffl Bank

  Tax revenue                                           9,6         8.8
Expenditureand Net Lending                             19.3       18.4
                                                                                 Technology and Infrastructure                                 2000      2004
Overall surpiusldeficit                                 -1.1       -3.4
                                                                                 Paved roads(% of total)                                       34.8
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                    Fixedline and mobile phone
  Individual                                             30         30             subscribers (per 1,000 people)                               285        388
  Corporate                                              30         30           Hightechnology exports
                                                                                   (% of manufacturedexports)                                    0.1       2.1
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                 Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  7,042      9,469           Agriculturalland (% of land area)                               29         30
Total debt service                                      918      1,401           Forest area (% of land area, 2000 and 2005)                   57.9       57.7
HlPC and MDRidebt relief(expected; flow)                  -          -           Nationallyprotectedareas (% of landarea)                          ..     21.7

Total debt (% of GDP)                                  60.6       66.7           Freshwater resouIcespercapita (cu. meters)                             46,426
Total debt selvice (% of exports)                        9.7      14.3           Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)                    ....    0.6

Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)                  624      1,012           C02 emissionsper capita (mt)                                    2.1       2.0
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                              0         0
                                                                                 GDP per unit of energy use

  Composition of total external debt, 2004                                         (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                         7.0       7.6

                                                                                 Energyuse per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                    875       836




                                                                                  (US$ mi//iofls)

                                                                                  iBRD
                                                                                   Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed                           283        212
                                                                                   Disbursements                                                 22          9
                                                                                   Principalrepayments                                           24         39
                                                                                   Interest payments                                             21         12

  US$ millions           PHvate,7,841                                             IDA
                                                                                   Total debt outstandingand disbursed                            0          0
                                                                                   Disbursements                                                  0          0
Private Sector Development                             2000      2005              Total debt selvice                                             0          0

Time requiredto start a business (days)                              19           IFC (fisca/year)
Cost to starta business (% of GNi per capita)                     24.8             Total disbursed and outstandingportfolio                     226       294
Time requiredto register property (days)                  ---        44              of which iFC own acwunt                                    117       202
                                                                                   Disbursementsfor IFCown acwunt                                84        56
Rankedas a majorconstraint to business                                             Portfoliosales, prepayments and
  (% of managers surveyedwho agreed)                                                 repaymentsfor IFCown account                                 2         11
    n.a.
    ma.                                                                           MlGA
                                                                                   Gross exposure                                                 0          0
Stock market capitalization(% of GDP)                  24.0       23.9             Newguarantees                                                  0          0
Bank branches (per 100,000 people)                         ..     12.9


Note: Figuresin italicsarefor years otherthanthose specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates.
..indicatesdata                                                                                                                                         9/8/06
                 are notavailable. -indicates obselvationis not applicable.

Development Economics. DevelopmentData Group (DECDG)



                                                                           57

                                                                                                                           PANAMA

                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                    RAILROADS

                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                      RIVERS                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                     83W                               82W                                        81W                                 80W                                       79W                                        78W
             10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       77W    10N


                                                                                                                Caribbean                          Sea

                              ElenaTo  Uatsi                                                                                                                                            El Porvenir
                                         Changuinola                                                                                            Portobelo                                                   Ustupo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yantupo
                                 Teribe                                                                                                                                                                                          KUNA DE
              COSTA                                Bocas del Toro                                                                        Coln
                              BOCAS                                                                                                                                            C o r d i l l e r a                               MADUNGANDI
                                              Almirante                                                                                                                                             d e
                                                                                                                                                                                        Caita
                                                                                                                                                                                        Caita             S a n K U N A
                RICA              DEL                                                                                             Salud        Lago
                                                                 Cusapin   Golfo de los                                                                                   Chepo                  Lago
                                                                                                                  Cocl                        Gatn
                                                                                                                                               Gatn    Panama                                                                                  KUNA DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Piri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Piri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Blas
                               TORO                                                                                                                           PA N A M A                       Bayano
                                                   Lago Chiriqu              Mosquitos                       del Norte    C O L O N                  Canal                                                                                     WARGANDI
                                                                                                                                                                      Tocumen                                                  YA L A
             9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9N
                                  Vulcn Bar
                                    ulcn Bar         Chiriqu                                           San                                                   PANAM
                                    (3475 m)           Grande                                       Cristbal                           La Chorrera
                                                   Cerro                                                                                                                                                          Caazas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Caazas
                                                 Chorcha  N G O B E         Calovbora                                   Cerro
                                                                                                                         Pea Blanca
                                                                                                                         Pea                                                                                     Cerro                                     Puerto
                       To                       (2238 m)
                                                                                                                         (1314 m)                                 Baha de                                                     Santa F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F                     Obalda
                     Corredor C H I R I Q U               B U G L E                                          El Cop
                                                                                                                 Cop                                                                         Chiman              Chucanti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1439 m)
                                      La Concepcin
                                         Concepcin                  Cerro Santiago                                                     El Valle                   Panam
                                                         Soloy       (2826 m)                      Santa FF                                                                                                                               EM
                                                                                                                    Penonome                                                                                                                     Serran
                                              David
                                                             Chichica   C o r d i l l  e  ra   C e n t r a l                                                                                     Isla                La Palma

                                             Pedrega                                                                                   Rio Hato                                                  del Rey                                Chucunaque
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BERAa  del
                             Puerto                                               V EoR A G U A S
                             Armuelles                       Guabal
                                                             Guabal                                                                                                                                                                    Yaviza                      Cerro
                                                                                                                    Dvisa
                                                                                                                    Dvisa                                                                                                      D A R I E N                 Darin  Tacarcuna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1875 m)
             8N                                                                       SanPabl           Santa Maria     Aguadulce
                                                                                              Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Garachin
                                                                                Sona                           Oc
                                                                                                               Oc                                          Golfo de                                                                             Yape                            8N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Boca de         Tucut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ucut
                                                                                              Puerto                                                         Panam                                                       Limn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Limn
                                                                                              Mutis               ERRERAMacaracas
                                                                                                                            Chitre


                                                                                                                                   Las Tablas                                                      EMBERA                                       Cerro Pirre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1445 m)

                                                                                  El Tigre                       H         LOS
                                                                       Isla de                                          SANTOS                                                                                   Puerto Pia

                                                                       Coiba                                                            Los Asientos
                                                                                                             Cerro
                                                                                                         Cambutal            Tonos                              0       20      40      60       80       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                         (1400 m)                                                                                                                                      COLOMBIA
                   PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                 0            20           40             60 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7N



OCTOBER                                                                 PACIFIC                              OCEAN                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                         IBRD
                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                               33462
       2004
                     83W                               82W                                        81W                                 80W                                       79W                                        78W                                    77W

