Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 3676-LA 
GRANT NUMBER H316-LA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Amending and Restating Development Credit Agreement and Providing Additional 
Financing for the Financial Management 
 Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated September 5, 2007 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3676-LA 
 
GRANT NUMBER H316-LA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 5, 2007 entered into between 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”). 
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated August 19, 2002 between the 
Association and the Recipient, as amended (“Development Credit Agreement”), the 
Association agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) to assist in 
financing the Financial Management Capacity Building Project described in Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement;  
 
(B) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance in support of the Financial Management Capacity Building Project by 
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement with a 
grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing 
to extend such additional assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit and a grant  (collectively, 
“Financing”) in the following amounts to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”): 
(a) 
an original Credit in various currencies equivalent to six million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) (“the 
Credit”), and 
 
(b)  
an additional Grant equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 2,000,000) (“the Grant”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Finance in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  5
3
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Effectiveness consist, namely, the Recipient shall adopt 
a
revised Operations Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is (20) twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
23 Singha Road 
 
Post Box No. 46 
 Vientiane 
 Lao 
PDR 
 
Facsimile: 856-21-412142 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at Vientiane, Lao PDR, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ H.E. Mrs. Viengthong Siphandone 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to improve: (i) the Recipient
’s budget preparation, 
execution, reporting and auditing systems; strengthen monitoring of state owned 
commercial bank operations; and (ii) business performance management of selected state 
owned enterprises. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
PART A
:
Financial Sector Reform
Carrying out of a reform program for the financial sector, including:  the design 
and implementation of individual restructuring plans for SCBs; the development and 
implementation of a legal and institutional framework for the resolution by SCBs of non-
performing loans; the strengthening of the Bank of Lao PDR’s capacity to supervise 
SCBs; strengthening the capacity of BOL to monitor and support SCBs’ restructuring 
plans; and the implementation of the Recipient’s financial sector strategy,  through the 
provision of consultants’ services, training, workshops, study tours and goods and the 
development and installation of a management information system for the Bank of Lao 
PDR’s supervision and examination activities. 
 
PART B
:
Public Finance Management Reform 
(1) 
Support the Recipient’s Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program 
by: 
 
(a) 
Carrying out of a program on capacity building for the Recipient in 
respect of public finance management reform, including: budget planning, 
execution and control; enabling transparency in the budgetary process and public 
finances; public disclosure of financial information; and public sector accounting 
and auditing standards, through: (i) the provision of consultants’ services, 
training, workshops, study tours and goods such as computers, photocopiers, and 
peripherals thereof; and (ii) the rehabilitation and extension of existing MoF 
training centers.  
 
(b) 
Providing advisory services to the Recipient’s MOF civil servants on 
implementation of the new Budget Law and the Prime Minister’s Decree on 
Organization and Operation of the Ministry of Finance: (i) implementation of the 
revised chart of accounts structure in a manner compatible with Government 
Finance Statistics guidelines, and a budget nomenclature; (ii) centralization of the 
role, duties, authority and organizational structure of the National Treasury;    
Page  8
6
(iii) development of a new inter-governmental fiscal framework; and (iv) 
preparation of the budget law implementation decree, all through the provision 
of, training, workshops, study tours and goods such as computers, photocopiers, 
and peripherals. 
 
(2)  
Support 
the Recipient’s State Audit Organization for strengthening its audit 
capacity through the provision of technical assistance, training, knowledge exchange 
visits to other countries, and goods such as computers, photocopiers, and peripherals. 
 
PART C
:
SOE Reform
Carrying out of a program on capacity building for the Recipient in respect of 
SOE reform, including: oversight of the financial and operational performance of SOEs; 
SOE restructuring; and development and implementation of tariff policies; through the 
provision of consultants’ services, office equipment and training thereof.   
 
PART D
:
Project  management and evaluation
Strengthening of the PFMSU’s capacity for Project management and evaluation 
on, 
inter alia
,
financial management and audits, through the provision of training, 
vehicles, consultants’ services, computer hardware and related software. 
 
Page  9
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution  
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain the Project Steering Committee, under the direction of the 
Minister of Finance, and with membership acceptable to the Association, to 
provide policy direction and guidance, evaluate the Project outcome, and ensure 
inter-agency coordination in the implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain the PFMSU, 
under the direction of a qualified and experienced director, staffed with 
competent personnel in sufficient number and provided with adequate resources, 
including an assistant project director, a procurement officer, a project 
accountant, and a project secretary, with qualifications and experience and terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association, and provided with adequate resources, 
said PFMSU to be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Project, 
including, overall project financial management, planning and budgeting, 
procurement of goods and consultants’ services, and preparing consolidated 
financial statements, financial monitoring reports, and progress reports. 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare and adopt, through the PFMSU, and thereafter apply and cause 
to be applied an Operations Manual, acceptable to the Association, for the 
implementation of the Project, which Operations Manual shall provide, inter alia, 
for: (i) the procurement procedures for goods, works and services; (ii) the 
financial management reporting procedures, including audit procedures; and (iii) 
the project performance indicators agreed to with the Association; and 
 
(b) 
not abrogate, amend, assign, repeal, suspend or waive any of the 
provisions of the Operations Manual without the prior concurrence of the 
Association.  
3. 
The Recipient shall promptly review with the Association each of the reports 
referred to in Section II of this Schedule 2, and thereafter take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  10
8
4. 
The Recipient shall carry out the audit referred to in paragraph B.3 of Section II 
of this Schedule 2 through the services of an external auditor with qualifications 
and experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
B. Anti-Corruption. 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards. 
 The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare and adopt through the PFMSU an Environmental Checklist 
which will be included in the Operations Manual;  
 
(b) 
 
implement and cause to be implemented the provisions of the 
Environmental Checklist in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards acceptable to the Association;  
(c)  
ensure that a training center will become eligible for rehabilitation and 
extension only if the Environmental Checklist is fully complied with for such 
training center; and 
(d)  
introduce only such revisions in the Environmental Checklist as shall 
have been agreed to with the Association. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) Calendar Semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than two (2) months after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
Page  11
9
one month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
Page  12
10
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Methods
(a)  National Competitive Bidding subject to the additional procedures set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule 2 
(b)  Limited International Bidding  
(c)  Procurement from UN Agencies 
(d)  Shopping 
(e)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Methods
(a)  Individual Consultants 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Quality-based Selection 
(d)  Least-Cost Selection 
(e)  Single-Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Page  13
11
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit and of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1)  Goods 
1,420,000 
80,000 
100% 
(2)  Consultant’s 
services 
(a) Audit of    
Project Accounts 
(b) Other 
 
30,000 
3,350,000 
 
1,140,000 
 
100% 
100% 
(3)  Training and 
study tours 
1,020,000 
         700,000 
100% 
(4)  Incremental 
Operating Costs 
 
240,000  
100% 
(5)  Unallocated 
  294,000 
          80,000 
 
(6) Works 
  446,000 
 
100% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 
6,800,000
2,000,000
Page  14
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is April 30, 2011. 
 
Page  15
13
ANNEX 
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
1. 
Bidding documents and contracts under national competitive bidding procedures 
financed by the Association shall include a provision requiring suppliers contractors and 
their subcontractors to permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the bid submission and the performance of the supplier and/or contractor, as 
the case may be, and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the Association, if so 
required by the Association.  The deliberate and material violation by the supplier, 
contractor or subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
2. 
Immediately after completion of the bid opening proceedings, a copy of the bid 
opening record shall be posted at a prominent location, accessible to the public, outside 
the office of the concerned procuring entity and shall be retained at the same location 
until the award of contract has been notified.  A copy of the bid opening record shall be 
provided to all bidders who submitted bids. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award on a free 
or open access website when it becomes operational or on another means of publication 
acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices 
as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; 
(d) name of bidders whose bid were rejected and the reasons for rejection; (e) name of the 
winning bidder, contract price, explanation if it is different that bid price as well as the 
duration and summary scope of the contract awarded; and (f) contract variation orders. 
This publication shall be updated quarterly. 
 
4. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under section I of the Bank
’s 
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank 
in October 2006; accordingly, a firm or individual previously declared ineligible by the 
Association based on determination by the Association that this firm or individual has 
engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices shall be 
declared ineligible to be awarded a contract financed by Association. 
 
5. 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association and the 
Recipient, if it at any time determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through 
an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, an Association-financed contract.
 
Page  16
14
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)
*
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October 15, 2012 to and including 
April 15, 2022 
1% 
commencing October 15, 2022 to and including 
April 15, 2042 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
15
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Bank of Lao PDR” and the acronym “BOL” means the Recipient’s central bank, 
and any successor thereto. 
3. 
“Calendar Semester” means a period equivalent to six months based on the 
calendar year. 
4. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
6. 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement 
signed between the Recipient and the Association on August 19, 2002 for the 
Financial Management Capacity Building Project, as amended.   
7. 
“Environmental Checklist” means the environmental checklist prepared by the 
Recipient to manage the demolition of old structures containing asbestos for the 
rehabilitation and extension of training centers. 
8. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year starting on October 1 and ending 
on September 30 of each calendar year. 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
10. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the 
PFMSU in managing and coordinating the implementation of the Project, 
including costs of office equipment and communication, which expenditures 
would not have been incurred absent the Project, but excluding staff salaries.  
11. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor thereto. 
Page  18
16
12. 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
purposes set forth in paragraph 2 of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as said manual may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Association. 
13. 
“PFMSU” means the Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit established 
by the Recipient in MOF in April 2007. 
14. 
“Prime Minister’s Decree on Organization and Operation of the Ministry of 
Finance” means the decree adopted by the Recipient on February 28, 2007. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 22, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
17. 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established and maintained 
by the Recipient for purposes of implementing the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
18. 
“Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program” means the Recipient’s 
program adopted in November 2005. 
19. 
“SCB” means any one of the Recipient’s state-owned commercial banks, and the 
term “SCBs” means, collectively, each of said SCBs. 
20. 
“SOE” means any one of the Recipient’s state-owned enterprises, and the term 
“SOEs” means, collectively, each of said SOEs. 
21. 
“Training and Workshops” means expenditures for the cost of training materials, 
facilities, course fees, travel and subsistence for trainees all in connection with 
training and workshops, including study tours abroad. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
Section 3.01(b) of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
Page  19
17
“(b) 
The Commitment Charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after: (i) the 
date of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the unwithdrawn 
balance of the Credit; and (ii) the date of the Financing Agreement with respect 
to the unwithdrawn balance of the Grant, to the respective dates on which 
amounts are withdrawn by the Recipient from the Financing Account or 
cancelled.  The Commitment Charge shall accrue at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to this Section.  The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next Payment Date in that year.  The Commitment 
Charge shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. The 
Commitment Charge shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 
30-day months.” 
 
