                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                ReportNo: 39670-LA




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                  ONA

                          PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR2.0MILLION
                                  (US$3.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                             LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                                   AND

                                     PROJECTRESTRUCTURING

                                                FORTHE

               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDINGPROJECT

                                              May 31,2007




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementUnit
East Asia andPacificRegion



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o f
  their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise bedisclosed without WorldBank authorization.

         LAOPEOPLE'SDEMOCRATICREPUBLIC GOVERNMENT    -                  FISCALYEAR
                                    October 1- September 30

                                  CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective as o f April 30,2007)

                            Currency Unit                Kip
                                US$l.OO               9,625.00

                                    Weights andMeasures
                                         Metric System




                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASYCUDA Automated System for Customs Data            MDG       MillenniumDevelopmentGoal
ADB     Asian Development Bank                       MOF       Ministry ofFinance
APB     Agriculture Promotion Bank                   MOJ       MinistryofJustice
BCEL    Banque Pour L e Commerce Exterieur Lao       NGPES     NationalGrowth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
BFSD    Bank and Financial Institutions Supervision  NPL       Non-Performing Loan
        Department                                   NSEDP     National Socio-Economic Development Plan
BOL     Bank o f Lao People's Democratic Republic    NT 2      NamTheun 2
BP      Bank Procedures                              OP         Operational Policy
BPKF'   Bolisat Phattana Khet Phoudoi                PEMSP     Public Expenditure Management Strengthening
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                            Program
DA      Designated Account                           PFMSU Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit
DAFI    Development, Agriculture Forestry Industry   PHRD      Japan Policy and Human ResourcesDevelopment
        Group                                        PIU        Project Implementation Unit
DCA     Development Credit Agreement                 PrMO       Procurement Monitoring Office
EDL     Electricite du Laos                          PRSO       Poverty Reduction Support Operation
EU      European Union                               RMF        Rural and Microfinance
FA      Financing Agreement                          S A 0      State Audit Organization
FMAC    Financial Management Adjustment Credit       SCB        State-owned Commercial Bank
GFIS    Government Financial Information System      SDR        Special Drawing Rights
GOL     Government o fLao PDR                        SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
IDA     International Development Association         SOE       State-owned Enterprise
IMF     International Monetary Fund                  TA         Technical Assistance
LDB     Lao Development Bank                         W B        World Bank
LPRP    Lao People's Revolutionary Party




                              Vice President:       James W. Adams, EAPVP
                           Country Director:        Ian C. Porter, EACTF
                            Sector Manager:         Barbara Nunberg, EASPR
                          Task Team Leader:         Shabih Mohib, EASPR




                                                 2

                                                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                  LAOPEOPLE'SDEMOCRATICREPUBLIC

                    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDINGPROJECT

                    ADDITIONAL FINANCINGAND PROJECTRESTRUCTURING


                                                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page


     PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET                       ..................................................................................................    4

     A.      INTRODUCTION...............................................................................................................                5

     B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE                                 ................................................................................ 5

     D .     CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) .............11

     E.      APPRAISAL OF NEW INTERVENTIONSFORRESTRUCTUREDAND
             ADDITIONAL FINANCING                      ............................................................................................     11

     F.      EXPECTED OUTCOMESAND IMPROVEMENTSTO RESULTSFRAMEWORK..12

     G .     BENEFITSAND RISKS                 ...................................................................................................      13

     H .     FIDUCIARY      ......................................................................................................................      15
     I FINANCIALMANAGEMENTANDDISBURSEMENT...............................................
      .                                                                                                                                                 16

     J.      FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORADDITIONAL FINANCING...........16

     K.      SAFEGUARDPOLICIES.................................................................................................                         17

     APPENDIX A: PROJECTINTERVENTIONS............................................................................                                       18
     APPENDIX B: KEY PERFORMANCEINDICATORS..............................................................                                               20

     APPENDIX C: STATUS OF USE OF FUNDSandREVISED/NEW ALLOCATION                                                                           .............23
     MAP SECTION............................................................................................................................. 24




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                         3


                               LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
               ADDITIONAL FINANCINGAND PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET




?Y                 2008     2009     2010       2011
4nnual               0.2     0.7       1.1       1.o
hmulative            0.2     0.9      2.0       3.O



policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                          Not applicable
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        IIN o
Revised project development objectives/outcomes: The overall project development objectives remain
substantively unchanged. The restructured and scaled up project is now aligned to the GOL approved
reform programs; and the bulk of the financing will now be supporting public finance management
reforms.   Thus the need to recalibrate the definition of the PDO to better measure the outcomes and
outputs of project interventions.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Yes

[ 3 Loan     [ICredit                    ForAdditionalFinancing
                         [X ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 3.0 equivalent
J




Borrower: Lao People's Democratic Republic
ResponsibleAgency: Ministryo fFinance (MoF)
Contact Person : Mrs.Sifong Oumavong, Director of Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit
Tel: +856 21 26 23 23; Fax:  + 856 21 26 23 25
Email: s f oumavonn@,mof.gov.la



                                                     4


A.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe ExecutiveDirectors to (a) provide an additional grant
in an amount o f SDR2.0 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) to the Government o f Lao People's
Democratic Republic for the Financial Management Capacity Building Project [project identification
PO77620and P097961, Credit number 3676-LA and Grant number (TBD)], and (b) introduce changes in
the project and accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents. One Financing Agreement
amending and restating the initial Development Credit Agreement (C3676-LA) and including the
Additional Financingwill abide for the restructured and scaled upproject.

2.      The proposed additional grant would finance activities for the implementation o f the new organic
Budget Law in the following areas: (i) Developing a new intergovernmental fiscal framework; (ii)
Implementation of the revised Chart of Accounts and Budget Nomenclature; (iii) Support to Treasury
Centralization; and (iv) Strengthening External Audit Capacity. These subcomponents will be hlly
integrated into the restructured project framework under the subcomponent supporting the Public
Expenditure Management Strengthening Program (PEMSP).

3.      The overall project development objectives remain substantively unchanged. The project was
designed with a flexible approach to support interventions in the financial and public reform programs as
they evolve. In that context, the initial project development objectives (PDOs) were broadly defined.
The restructured and scaled up project i s now aligned to the GOL approved reform programs; and the
bulk o f the financing will now be supporting public finance management reforms. Thus the need to
recalibrate the definition o f the PDO to better measure the outcomes and outputs o f project interventions.
The initial project development objectives are: (i) build and strengthen institutional capacity of GOL to
assist in the implementation o f the government's structural reform program; and (ii)support GOL in
implementing a structural adjustment program.         Based on the project refocus, the refined project
development objective is: to improve GOL budget preparation, execution, reporting and auditing
systems; strengthen monitoring of state owned commercial bank operations, and to improve financial
management of selected state owned enterprises. However, no changes to the general design and
implementation modalities are sought.

4.      The proposed additional financing and the related project restructuring are designed to scale up
the project's impact and development effectiveness, and help Lao PDR speed up progress in achieving its
goal to move to a market economy which will stimulate growth and reduce poverty to meet the
MillenniumDevelopment Goal (MDG) by 2015.

B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE

5.       Country Context. Lao PDR is among the poorest countries in the world. With an estimated per
capita income o f US$460 in 2005, it is also below the average o f US$5lO in developing East Asia. In
2004,7 1percent o f its population lived on less than US$2 a day, and 23 percent on less than US$1 a day.
Lao PDR has a population o f around 5.6 million and a land area o f 236,800 square km. It has significant
natural resources like forestry, minerals and hydro-electric power. Despite the recent declining o f its share
in GDP, agriculture remains the major sector o f Lao economy contributing around 45 percent o f GDP
(2005) and employing nearly 80 percent of the labor force; the industry accounts for a bit more than 29
percent and services for nearly 26 percent.

6.       TheNational Socio-EconomicDevelopment Plan 2006 2010. Inits National Socio-Economic
                                                                  -
Development Plan 2006-2010 (NSEDP), the Government projects to raise annual growth to 6-7 percent
and to eradicate mass poverty by 2010. Developed in a participatory process, the NGPES and NSEDP
stress the Government's commitment to sound macroeconomic policies to sustain growth, and prudent

monetary and fiscal policies combined with structural reforms.          To convert sustained growth into
improved social outcomes, the strategy papers also recognize that strengthened public sector management
and capacity development will be critical, as will better service delivery, and better management o f
natural resources and the environment.

7.       Project Background.      The original IDA Credit in the amount o f SDR 6.80 million or US$8.50
million equivalent was approved on June 25, 2002. The Project became effective in February 12, 2003
and the closing date i s April 30, 2008. It i s executed under a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) for a total
project cost o f US$9.45 million equivalent o f which the GOL was expected to finance US$0.45 million.
However, in January 2005, IDA agreed to allow for 100 percent financing o f all eligible expenditures
according to the Country Financing Parameters.

8.       The objective o f the Project i s to assist the GOL in implementing its public finance management
and state owned enterprise restructuring program through capacity building activities, technical
assistance, and systems development. Project oversight i s the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Finance
(MoF). As envisaged under the initial project, a Project Steering Committee, under the guidance o f the
Minister o f Finance would provide policy direction and guidance, evaluate the Project outcomes, and
ensure inter-agency coordinationduring the implementationo f the restructured and scaled up Project. The
project operational aspects will be managed by the Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit
(PFMSU) within the external finance department.

9.       The performance o f the various M o F executing agencies (Fiscal Policy Department, Finance
Inspection Department, Treasury Department, Budget Department, Accounting Department, Procurement
Monitoring Office, Personnel Department, State Assets Management Department, External Finance
Department and its Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit) and other executing agencies: Bank
o f Lao PDR and the Bank and Financial Institutions Department,          the State Audit Organization, the
BusinessPromotion Office o fthe Prime Minister's Office, has been satisfactory.

10.      The project i s in compliance with the legal covenants and has followed,the agreed procurement,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and safeguard requirements. Disbursements picked up
over the past year.     As o f May 1, 2007, the project has disbursed an amount o f US$2.68 million
equivalent, leaving an undisbursed amount o f US$7.69 million equivalent. It i s projected that the credit
amount would be fully committed by project end date, scheduled for October 30, 2010 and disbursed by
project closing.

11.      The Public Expenditure Management Strengthening Program (PEMSP).                 The PEMSP was
adopted by the Government o f Lao, PDR inNovember 2005, by the approval o f the Minister for Finance
and the Prime Minister's Office. The PEMSP is a multi-year medium-to-long term program which aims
to improve policy consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in public expenditure
management by strengthening institutional systems and capacity and making progress towards
appropriate international financial management standards. The PEMSP provides a framework for
implementing Government policies and strategies laid out in the "Policy Paper on Governance", the
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy, and the National Socio Economic Guidelines 2006-
2010.

12.      PEMSP implementation has been satisfactory. Continued effective implementation hinges on
adequate provision o f resources for technical assistance, goods and capacity building. The three key
deficiencies in public financial management that need to be addressed are: (i)   the absence o f a functional
classification o f the budget - making it impossible to determine programmatic spending across sectors;
(ii) ofaneffectivebudgetmonitoringandexecutionsystem-Government FinancialInformation
    lack
System (GFIS) is very important first step in this regard and there is need to further mainstream GFIS,


                                                         6

and over time to implement an integrated financial management information system; and (iii) audit
                                                                                                weak
capacity at the State Audit Organization (SAO) - there is need to develop and implement a
comprehensive capacity buildingprogram for the S A 0 for improving audit capacity.

13.      A revised new organic Budget Law was passedby the National Assembly inNovember 2006, and
signed into Law by the President o f Lao PDR in February 2007. The provisions o f the new organic
Budget Law have the potential to significantly strengthen public financial management, especially in its
currently weakest part - central-local fiscal relations. These provisions mandate the centralization o f the
treasury department, centralization o f customs department, centralization o f tax department, and
formulation o f a new intergovernmental fiscal framework. These measures reinforce and build on the
component interventions o f PEMSP. Implementation o f these elements o f the new organic Budget Law i s
critical for improving budget planning - linking allocations to policy, execution o f expenditures, and
reporting on public finances.

C.       PROPOSEDCHANGES

14.      Rationale for Restructuring the initial project funded under IDA Credit 3676-LA. Since the
project became effective, two things have changed: (i)the government has significantly expanded the
public finance management reform program, with a view to meeting the N a m Theun2 (NT2) hydropower
project's revenue management arrangements; and (ii)the Asian Development Bank and other
development partners have provided significant assistance towards financial sector reform program.
Consequently, the financial needs for effectively implementing the public finance management reform
have increased significantly, while requirements for the financial sector reform component have reduced.
The Government has requested to redeploy resources in order to better align FMCBP to the emerging
reform program.      Given that new emerging interventions are mostly related to the public finance
management sector, the remaining available finds will focus on implementation o f the PEMSP, as well as
enhancing support towards the SOE restructuring program. Appendix A summarizes the initial and re-
focused project interventions. Project interventions by component from now until project closing are
discussed hereafter:
+     Component A - Financial Sector Reform Program: The restructured FMCBP will scale back its
      planned support from developing urban and rural microfinance, and focus on providing support
      towards implementation o f the Financial Sector Strategy which i s expected to be approved by
      September 2007.

         o Al. Improve data management and analysis for On-site and Off-site Examination o f Bank
             and Financial Institutions Supervision Department (BFSD) at the Bank o f Lao PDR: The
             objective o f improving data management and analysis for the on-site and off-site examination
             o f BFSD i s to strengthen their supervision capabilities on the commercial banks which
             thereby results in a healthier banking environment.        Timely and accurate reporting of
             problematic signals o f commercial banks will enable BFSD to identified, diagnosed and takes
             corrective action prior to further damage (i.e. liquidity position, non-performing loans, and
             capital adequacy).

         o A2. Credit Information Bureau improvement o f Bank o f Lao PDR: To create a long-term,
             efficient and comprehensive financial sector in Lao PDR, the Bank o f Lao PDR's Financial
             Sector Strategy Committee drafted its 14-years blue print through 2020. The Financial Sector
             Strategy i s expected to be completed and endorsed by the Government at the end o f 2007.
             FMCBP proposes to support the implementation o f GOL approved Financial Sector Strategy
             concentrating in the financial sector infrastructure; the improvement o f Credit Information
             Bureau (CIB). Enabling credit information sharing among commercial banks will facilitate


                                                      7

       credit analysis and financial transaction, enhance credit culture, increase commercial lending
       practices, and promote transparency, accountability o f information
+ Component B - Public Finance Management Reform: This component will align filly its support
  towards assisting the GOL in the implementation o f key elements o f the PEMSP. In determining
  the support to be provided to PEMSP implementation; due diligence has been given towards
  ensuringthat there is no overlap o factivity with other development partners.

    o B1.2.3. Stabilization of the GFIS: Until a few years, budgeting was done on paper and there
       was no systematic information recording system. In this context, the deployment o f GFIS
       across all ministries and provinces has been a significant development in the Lao context
       towards improving budget monitoring and recording. Although GFIS has been deployed
       across the entire country, the information and communication technology i s unstable and
       inadequate. There i s need to improve connectivity, upgrade the servers, and roll-out GFIS to
       more users. GFIS i s not yet deployed across districts, where significant transactions are
       carried out. However, the Government i s in the process o f institutinga mechanism whereby
       budget execution information could be consolidated more timely at the respective provincial
       finance departments. The project will provide technical assistance for reprogramming the
       software, hardware and training to users instabilizing GFIS operations. This support will help
       in ensuring that GFIS operations are stable and that users are trained in using ICT based
       systems for budget recordingand monitoring.

    o B1.2.4 Strengthening External Debt Management: The project will provide support for
       reestablishing the commonwealth secretariat debt recording and management system. This
       will help improve debt data recording and provide the tools for Government to monitor and
       manage external debt better. FMCBP will also provide assistance towards training the debt
       managers towards enhancing capacity to conduct debt sustainability analysis.

    o B1.2.5 Support to Procurement Monitoring Ofice: The government has recently drafted
       standard biddingdocuments for use by all government agencies for procurement usingpublic
       funds. However, there is need for significant dissemination and training for Operationalizing
       the use o f these documents. FMCBP will support the Procurement Monitoring Office in this
       regard.

    o B1.3.1 Curriculum Strengthening and Upgrading training institutes: As part o f original
       project design, FMCBP was to provide assistance to the M o F training centers for improving
       the quality o f its training delivered to staff. The MoF has three regional training centers that
       provide training to all staff in the public financial sector. The design envisaged provision o f
       technical assistance for comprehensive curriculum and training reforms, training for trainers,
       and provision o f equipments and peripherals. However, it has emerged that the physical
       conditions o f the training centers in the North and South are in very serious state o f disrepair
       that any amount o f technical assistance and equipment will not provide an adequate and
       conducive learning environment. Furthermore, there is an absence o f a library and computing
       facilities for staff to learn and train on. In this regard, the M o F requested the WB to support
       rehabilitation o f existing class rooms and to construct additional small adjacent buildings to
       properly balance the curriculum reform elements with adequate expansion o f learning
       facilities. The WB team visited these training centers and having seen the condition o f the
       sites, agrees with the M o F that there i s need for adequate expansion o f infrastructure to go in
       tandem with plans for improving curriculum if the FMCBP i s to realize its outcome o f
       supporting sustainable capacity buildingfor the financial sector staff. The project will provide
       assistance towards curriculum reform, training for trainers, necessary equipment, and support


                                                   8

            small construction and rehabilitation o f facilities in order to achieve ensure that there is
            sustainable long term improvement in the quality o f training. In view o f the limited funds in
            FMCBP, the GOL has agreed that FMCBP resources would be used for rehabilitation and
            small construction for the North training center only, as that training center serves the poorest
            provinces and i s in need o f most urgent repair. However curriculum reform will take place
            across all three training centers.

+     Component C: SOE Reform and Business Development: This component will continue to support
      the governments SOEreform andbusiness development inthe following three areas:

         o  CI. State-owned enterprises reform and business development strategy: The activities in this
            sub-component will help the Government to develop a strategy and implementation plan for
            the SOE reform that has recently gained momentum, including a new strategy for the BPO
            office, drafting regulations relating to SOE reform and business development, and learning
            from experience in other transition economies that were successful or are struggling with
            similar issues in SOE reform

         o C2. SOE Restructuring program: This element will provide support to the restructuring o f
            four SOEs (currently in Phase 2 o f the restructuring program) and ensuring spillover effects
            to other SOEs that are to be restructured later on.

         o C3.Monitoring and evaluation: This sub-component will help buildcapacity inthe Business
            Promotion Office and State Assets Management Department to monitor and evaluate the
            restructuring and adjustment process in SOEs, and support monitoring o f the SOEs under
            restructuring according to international standards. It will also help monitor achievement o f
            outcomes o f this component

15.     Rationalefor Additional Financing. The additional financing would focus interventions on the
implementation o f the new organic Budget Law that was signed into L a w by the President in February
2007. The Prime Minister has issued a decree (No.80 of February 28) on the new structure o f the MOF,
and Minister for Finance has also constituted a dedicated Steering Committee to develop respective
implementing decrees and plans to operationalize the new organic Budget Law. The new organic Budget
Law aims to fundamentally transform the intergovernmental fiscal framework by centralizingthe national
treasury, the tax department, the customs department, and developing a comprehensive intergovernmental
fiscal framework that will guide intergovernmental transfers. There i s need for significant technical
assistance and systems development for effective implementation o f the new organic Budget Law, as
centralization i s a new process for GOL and government implementing agencies. The scaled up FMCBP
would provide technical assistance, training, knowledge exchange visits, and goods needed to implement
some elements o f the new organic Budget Law, as presentedbelow.
+     BI.1.2. Developing a new intergovernmental fiscal framework The revenue-sharing and local
      budget arrangements component o f the new organic Budget Law Implementation Plan has two
      broad objectives. First, to distribute fiscal resources, which will be administered and collected by
      centralized tax and customs authorities, rationally across provincial jurisdictions in Lao equitably
      and in line with the Government's national policy priorities. Second, to improve the usage o f fiscal
      resources at the local level through improving the local (province-district) budget authority
      structure and provincial budgeting process. These objectives will be pursued through analytic,
      policy-development, regulatory, instrument-development and institutional reform activities in three
      areas: (i) the development and implementationo f an improved intergovernmental transfer system in
      Lao PDR; (ii)reform o f the local budget authority structure and budgeting processes; and (iii)



                                                      9

      establishing capacity within the M o F to develop and implement reforms and manage the emerging
      intergovernmental fiscal system.
+     B1.2.1 Implementation of the revised Chart of Accounts and Budget Nomenclature: The Minister
      for Finance approved the revised functional classification o f the Budget, the new budget
      nomenclature and the implementation strategy that i s consistent with the IMF Government
      Financial Statistics and the international public sector accounting standards in early April 2007.
      According to the strategy, the government will require technical assistance to finalize the chart o f
      accounts, institute a comprehensive training plan in order to pilot the functional classification in the
      FY2007/08 budget for the education sector, and to fully implement the new chart o f accounts inthe
      FY2008/09 Budget. This element i s needed to ensure that the budget classification system can
      account for sector and sub-sector programs and i s required for developing a consistent
      intergovernmental fiscal framework, which is important for achieving the NT2 revenue
      management arrangements. The project
+     B.1.2.2 Support towards Treasury Centralization: At present, the Treasury function i s managed by
      the provincial finance departments, with no effective framework for central oversight. There seem
      to be more than 3000 government bank accounts operated by ministries, agencies and it i s not
      possible for the government to determine the consolidated government financial cash position.
      There is an absence o f a functional system that would facilitate the transfer o f financial resources
      from surplus provinces to deficit ones. Budget execution is fragmented because o f lack o f effective
      systems for the Center to control expenditures at the provincial level. The result is accumulation o f
      arrears and general cash shortage to execute expenditures. These problems arise from the fact that
      Treasury i s currently decentralized. In order to address these weaknesses, the government has
      decided to centralize the Treasury department. The project will provide technical assistance
      towards: (i)  providing a qualified treasury advisor who shall work with the Treasury o f devising a
      treasury centralization masterplan; (ii)  developing a consistent human resource management plan;
      (iii)devising a treasury single account framework; and (iv) provide technical assistance for
      ensuring that there is an enabling legislative environment for Treasury centralization. Furthermore,
      the project will also provide workshops, selected knowledge exchange events, and goods. However,
      centralization o f the Treasury will also require: (i)
                                                           an integrated financial management information
      system; and (ii) a payment settlement system at the Bank o f Lao. These two core systems will NOT
      be financed through the FMCBP because their project deployments will extend beyond the closing
      date o f the project inview o f the procurement and implementationpractices for such systems.
+     B2. Strengthening external audit capacity: The Government has recently approved an Audit Peer
      Review for the S A 0 by New Zealand. This Audit Peer review will help establish a comprehensive
      capacity building program for the SAO. There will be need for significant training and technical
      assistance to improve the quality o f external audit conducted by the SAO. The government has
      committed to improving external audit under the NT2 revenue management arrangements

16.     Based on the restructuring and additional financing, the outcome indicators will also change. The
original outcome indicators in the project results framework were very general, and overly numerous for
strategic management for results. As indicated in the table o f indicators in Appendix Bymost o f the
outputs have been completed - some with funds provided by other donors. It i s therefore important as
part o f project restructuring to re-adjust the indicators to align with sector-wide indicators recently
developed by the MoF for monitoring its activities under PEMSP. The government intends to incorporate
the new organic Budget Law implementation plan under the PEMSP umbrella in the coming years. The
GOL is therefore proposing to retire some initial indicators that have become obsolete and to introduce
new ones that would measure outputs for the new activities and would focus on results-based
interventions. See table o f indicators attached inAppendix B.


                                                      10

17.      As mentioned in paragraph 13, the new organic Budget Law also mandates centralization o f
Customs and Tax Departments. At the moment the Swedish InternationalDevelopment Agency (SIDA) i s
providing assistance to the Tax Department on implementation o f the Value Added Tax, as well as
centralization o f the Tax Department. In this regard, SIDA is providing US$4.5 million over till 2009.
The financing provided by SIDA is adequate, however there will be need for fine tuning some o f the
support to ensure effective centralization o f the tax department. With regards to Customs Department, the
French Government and other development partners are assisting in the centralization process.
Additionally, the World Bank is considering supporting the Customs Department in implementationof an
information technology system (ASYCUDA). This system will help in managing a centralized customs
administration. Based on this information, FMCBP will not provide any significant financial support to
Customs and Tax Departments.

18.      Activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are expected to be completed by October
31,2010; as such the closing dates o fboth the initial credit and additional grant are proposed for April 30,
2011(36 months extension).

19.      Costs. The original project costs included U$0.95 million by the Government Lao PDR.
Contribution from Government will continue in kind through payment o f salaries for regular staff o f the
MoF who will be involved partly in the implementation o f project interventions under the new FMCBP,
the full time for PFMSU project director and associated training costs to ensure there is adequate capacity
at the PFMSU to execute the operational issues relatingto the project.

20.      Revisemew allocationfor the restructuredand additionalfinancing. The summarized table o f
the status o f funds for each component o fthe initial project andthe revisednew allocationper component
under the restructured project (IDA Credit 3676-LA) i s attached in Appendix C.            The last column
indicates the amounts for subcomponent interventions to be funded under the IDA Grant (additional
financing).

D.       CONSISTENCYWITH THE COUNTRYASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS)

21.      The ongoing Project, prepared in 2002 was aligned to the strategic priorities set out in the 1999
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report 19098-LA,March 30, 1999). Within the context of increasing
economic growth to reduce poverty, the CAS for the Lao PDR identifies institutional capacity as a major
constraint to the country's economic growth and development. The proposed Capacity Building Credit
would strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate and implement appropriate macroeconomic
policies   which      are   integral to    sustainable    economic    growth     and    poverty   reduction.

22.      Thepresent CAS, discussed by the Board on March 31, 2005 (Document Number IDA/R2005-
0041/1) i s designed to support the Government's National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
(NGPES). Specifically, the first two objectives o f the CAS aim to support the implementation o f NGPES
priorities by: (i)sustaining growth through improving management o f key drivers - regional integration
and private sector development, rural development, and natural resource management; and (ii)      improving
social outcomes and reducing vulnerability through strengthened uublic financial management and
service delivery capacities and targeted poverty reductionprograms.

E.       APPRAISAL OF NEW INTERVENTIONS FOR RESTRUCTUREDAND ADDITIONAL
         FINANCING

23.      The Bank has completed appraisal o f the financial, technical, fiduciary, environmental, and social
aspects o f the proposed additional activities. Appraisal verifies that all arrangements are set, fiduciary


                                                       11

controls are in place, and the GOL i s ready and has adequate capacity to implement the additional
activities.  The implementation systems are expected to continue to operate satisfactorily during the
remainder o f the project.

24.      The GOL has furnished to the Bank the Prime Ministerial Decree (No. 175 o f November 6,2003)
demarcating the Cultural Heritage Zone in Luang Prabang. The team has confirmed that the Training
Center in Luang Prabang i s outside the Cultural Heritage Zone. The documentation i s included in the
Operations Manual. The required checklist on environmental safeguard measures have been discussed in
the ISDS appraisal stage and agreed with GOL. PFMSU will ensure that the revised Operations Manual
contains an environmental screening checklist and instructions to control all risks. GOL has confirmed
that it will ensure the proper management o f asbestos contained inthe demolition o f old structures. Given
that there is no regulation o f asbestos in Lao PDR, any demolition will be controlled using an Australian
standard: National Code o f Practice for the Safe Removal o f Asbestos (NOHSC:2002-1988).

F.       EXPECTEDOUTCOMESAND IMPROVEMENTS TO RESULTSFRAMEWORK

25.      The following new and or revised performance indicators are proposed to better measure the
original project activities as well as the scaledup project:

         Under Component Financial Sector Reform:
              9 Final on-site examination report of commercial banks to be completed by 30 days from
                  on-site visitation date to commercialbank. The current baseline i s more than 60 days;
              9 50 percent of loan accounts reported in Customer Information Bureau system by 2009.
                  Currently there i s no systematic reporting o f loan accounts, and only large loans are
                 reported on a random basis;

         Under Component Public Finance Management Reform:
                 Allbcation o f resources to health and education made on the basis o f a set o f Budget
                 Norms by FY2009/10. At the moment allocations are not based on function but only be
                  economic classification only;
                  Information available by functional classification as revised budget classification i s
                  deployed by the Budget by FY2008/9;
                 Budgetexecution reports prepared intime for the National Assembly presentation o f the
                 budget starting the FY2007/8, by stabilizing the GFIS environment, increased training in
                  its usage and improved connectivity;
                  Improve audit quality by supporting a comprehensive capacity buildingplan for the S A 0
                 based on an Audit Peer Review by December 2010;
                 Operationalize the standard bidding documents for procurement by Government.
                 Currently the standard biddingdocuments have beenprepared but not adopted;
                 New curriculum aligned to new MoF responsibilities as per new organic Budget Law
                 adopted, increased computer-user ratio, increase in library material access, and improve
                 infrastructure o f MoF training centers - as per the PEMSP;
                 Implement a suitable framework o f Treasury Single Account to manage the government
                 financial resources by 2010. At this time there are more numerous bank accounts
                 operated by different entities, with no central control or ability to monitor.

         Under Component SOE Reform and Business Development:
              9 Prepare comprehensiverestructuringplans for at least 10SOE's under restructuring;
              9 Prepare SOEsector strategy byend2009;
              9 Complete Audits for FY2004/5 andFY2005/6 for all 14SOE's under Phase 1,2, and3.



                                                      12

26.     The revised table o f indicators i s included inAppendix B.

G.      BENEFITS AND RISKS

27.     Benefits. The interventions supported by the Project will help strengthen institutions and assist
with policy implementation in the areas of public finance management, SOE reform restructuring, and
financial sector reform. The immediate target institutions include: Ministryo f Finance, Bank o f Lao PDR,
the Business Promotion Office - Prime Minister's Office and the State Audit Organization. Project
interventions aim to improve budget planning, execution, reporting, and auditing - the fundamentals of
proper public finance management, A stronger capacity in these institutions for policy formulation and
implementation will contribute to improvements in service delivery and improve the links between
government policy and the budget process. By supporting the PEMSP and new organic Budget Law
implementation, the project will directly assist the government in implementing the NT2 revenue
management arrangements.

28.     Risks. Some o f the risks that were classified as substantial at the time o f Project's approval have
been addressed. The risk `continuance o f reforms' has been downgraded from high to moderate because
the GOL has approved and started implementation of the PEMSP and the new organic Budget Law. The
restructured project squarely supports the government's reform program. The government has also
established appropriate implementing arrangements for the PEMSP and the new organic Budget Law.
Furthermore, the pace o f reform implementation has picked up in recent months, as demonstrated by the
successful implementation o f the first PRSO series and on-going progress with implementation o f the
N T 2 hydropower project.     In order to improve project execution, the GOL has fully integrated the
FMCBC PIU into the newly established Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit (PFMSU). The
PFMSU i s part o f the external finance department, this is a very welcome development. The FMCBP will
provide adequate funds for strengthening capacity o f PFMSU to effective execute the project. The Table
below presents the riskanalysis and mitigation measures for the restructured FMCBP.

                               ~~    ~




                   COMPONENT RISKANALYSISAND MITIGATIONMEASURES

                 Risk                 RiskRating             MeasuresTaken for EnsuringSuccessful
                                                                           Implementation

  Continuance and ownership o f        Moderate        Individualproject elements support measuresthat are
  reforms.                                             fully internalizedinto the core work programof
                                                       respective implementing agencies.
                                                       The PEMSP has been approved by the Prime
                                                       Minister's Office and implementation arrangements
                                                       have beenestablished. PEMSP implementation has
                                                       beensatisfactory.
                                                       The new organic Budget Law has been promulgated,
                                                       mandatingthe government to implement reforms
                                                       supported by the project.
                                                       Project interventions are aligned with the PRSO,
                                                       support implementation o fthe NT2 Revenue
                                                       Management Arrangements -both operations are
                                                       under satisfactory implementation.

  Slow pace o f reforms and            Moderate        Technical assistanceis beingprovided to on
                                                       developinga sequencednew organic BudgetLaw


                                                       13

                  COMPONENT RISKANALYSIS AND MITIGATION MEASURES

              Risk             RiskRating         MeasuresTaken for EnsuringSuccessful
                                                                 Implementation
reversal o f GOL commitment.                implementationplanthat i s based on current capacity
                                            and systems.

Lack of effective donor           High      Discussions are underway to establish a Public
coordinationto support inter-               Finance Management Strengthening Program
related reform elements ina                 (PFMSP) multi-donor trust fund to provide
consistent and coherent                     complementary support to PEMSP and new organic
framework                                   budget law implementation.
                                            Informal donor working group has been established on
                                            PFMSP implementation inorder to better coordinate
                                            donor assistanceto public finance management
                                            reforms.

Lack o f adequateinter-agency     High      The structure o f PFMSU has beenappropriately
coordination                                formulated to ensure adequate staff and skills for
                                            effectively supporting executing agencies in
                                            implementingreformcomponents.

Weak implementationcapacity at    High      PFMSU has been fully integratedinto the structure o f
the PFMSU.                                  the external finance department and the organization
                                            structure includes two procurement staff, two financial
                                            management staff, and two accountants
                                            Adequate fundinghas beenprovided inthe project for
                                            capacity buildingo fthe PFMSU on project cycle
                                            management, procurement and financial management.
                                            A PFMSUcapacity buildingplanhas also been
                                            prepared, taking into account the roles and
                                            responsibilities o f staffandtheir current skills-set.

Slow take up o f funds due to   Moderate    Additional financing inon IDA Grant terms.
GOL preference for grants and
consequently slow                           Government has demonstrated inrecent months its
implementationo f capacity                  willingness to use credit funds for implementing
buildingprogram.                            project components.


Financial management: weak      Substantial The mitigatingmeasures at country level include
control environment inthe                   implementation o fthe various reforms inPublic
country and low capacity.                   Financial Management currently beingundertakento
                                            address the identifiedissues.

      OverallRiskRating           High




                                            14

H.       FIDUCIARY

29.     Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements. The aim o f the assessment was to
determine whether the PFMSU responsible to implement the activities related to the additional financing
has acceptable financial management arrangements, The arrangements include the unit's system o f
accounting, reporting, auditing, and internal controls. The unit's arrangements are acceptable if they are
considered capable o f recording correctly all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f
regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the PFMSU assets, and are subject to auditing
arrangements acceptable to the World Bank.

30.      The financial management and disbursement arrangements for FMCBC on going project will be
equally applicable for FMCBC Additional Financing, The current financial management and
disbursement arrangement for the FMCBC were assessed as adequate to handle the financial transactions
o f the FMCBC Additional Financing. The only changes to be done will be to update the projects
operational manual o f February 2003 which has a financial management section. The updated manual
should outline and include all the improvements that have taken place since the FMCBC became effective
inthe financial management systemowing to the introductiono fACCPAC software. Further, the manual
will have to be updated with the new Finance Department organizational structure to include the Financial
Management specialists and accountants' positions. The Operations Manual section on job descriptions
will include a minimumo fthree performance indicators perjob profile.

31.      Financial management risk: The Financial management risk rating o f the additional financing i s
substantial due to inherent risks before mitigating measures and moderate after the measures. The
substantial risk arises from weak control environment in the country and low capacity. External and
internal audit are also weak. The mitigating measures at country level include implementation o f the
various reforms in Public Financial Management currently being undertaken address the identified issues.
Specific to the project include the setting up o f a separate project accounting system for the project
already in place which will also be used for the additional financing. More training in World Bank
financial management rules to new staff that have recently joined the project will be done. Carefully
planned implementation missions aimed at addressing any new risks and following up on the
implementationo f measures to address old risks will be done.


i s expected to be mainly individual consultant services, small - value contracts for goods which are
32.     Procurement Arrangement. The remaining procurement under the project after the restructuring

expected to be procured mostly through shopping and N C B and a few civil works contracts for
refurbishment o f M o F training centers to be procured through NCB. The project has already gained

experience in procurement o f civil works. It has been agreed that with the restructured and scaled - up
experience inprocurement o f goods and consulting services over the last four years but does not have any

project, strong procurement knowledge on procurement o f goods, works and consultants' services are
needed and thus the PFMSU plans to further strengthen procurement capacity. The original staff in the
project that has knowledge on consultants' services and procurement o f goods will continue to work on
the project and two additionalpositions will be provided to assist with carrying out procurement o f works
and also with the significant number o f individual consultant services and procurement o f goods. All
procurement processing will continue to remain centralized at the PFMSU. With these strengthening
measures, the capacity o f the project to undertake the remaining procurement is considered to be adequate
and the procurement risk i s moderate.

33.     Establishment of the Public Finance Management Strengthening Unit (PFMSU). The MOF
has integrated the former FMCBC PIU fully into the External Finance Department and renamed this unit
`PFMSU'.     This is a very important development for the restructured and scaled up project. The fully
staffed PFMSUwill comprise of: a Director (Government staff), Technical specialist (Government staff -


                                                     15

to be added), Procurement Specialist, Procurement Analyst, Financial Management Specialist, 2
Accountants, 2 Secretaries and a project assistant. The PFMSU will manage the FMCBP, the PHRD
Grant for the FMCBP, PHRD Grant for the PRSO series, and the proposed PEMSP Multi-Donor Trust
Fund. This unit will also be tasked with coordinating support from other donors on public finance
management reform.

34.      Capacity Development. As part o f the procurement capacity building initiative, the World Bank
will provide adequate training to PFMSU appointed procurement staff and the procurement evaluation
committee; these training will be conducted collaboratively by WB procurement staff inthe Vientiane and
Bangkok's Offices. In addition, capacity development for all levels o f PFMSU staff and executing
agencies staff involve in FMCBP project implementation will be discussed with M o F and an action plan
for training and capacity buildingover the life o f the project will be agreed upon.


I. FINANCIALMANAGEMENTANDDISBURSEMENT

35.      Disbursement and dedicatedaccounts: Funds for the credit and grant will be maintainedin two
accounts at the World Bank inWashington. Withdrawal o f such funds will be done throughsubmission o f
a withdrawal application which will be submitted through the MOF. It i s the Ministryo f Finance that will
maintain the two designated accounts (DAs); one for the credit and one for the grant with a delegated
authority given to the project. The signatories to the DAs will be appointed by the MOF. The Bank will
agree to provide funds to the GOL so that it may finance expected project expenditures as they are
incurred. The borrower may only use the funds advanced by the Bank for eligible project expenditures.
The Bank determines the limits and reporting requirements that apply to advances during the project
appraisal taking into consideration the projects cash flow needs and prior, as well as ongoing
performance. The Bank normally disburses advances into a DA that may be segregated in an account o f
the borrower that is used only to deposit advances for a Bank financed project and to make payments for
eligible project expenditures. The DA i s normally maintained in a freely convertible currency. The
ceiling is the maximum amount o f loan proceeds that may be on deposit in a DA pending the provision to
the Bank o f supporting documentation evidencing the use o f advanced funds. The Bank normally
establishes the ceiling based on planned project expenditures. This ceiling may be fixed or an amount that
is adjusted from time to time during project implementation based on periodic forecasts o f cash flow
needs. The borrower may request advances as needed for project implementation so long as the total
amount for which supporting documentation has not yet been provided does not exceed the ceiling. Once
the ceiling has been reached, the borrower must report on how funds previously advanced have been used
before the Bank will disburse any additional advance amounts or provide evidence o f immediate cash
requirements that justify increasing the ceiling. Payments to suppliers and other accounts may be made
from the DA.


J.       FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

36.      The additional financing o f US$3.0 million equivalent would be provided as an IDA-Grant. The
condition o f effectiveness i s the receipt o f a legal opinion certifying that the Additional Financing
Agreement will have been duly authorized and executed by the Government o f Lao PDR and i s legally
binding. The additional event o f effectiveness consists o f the following: the Recipient shall adopt a
revised Operations Manual satisfactory to the Association.




                                                      16

K.      SAFEGUARD POLICIES

37.     Based on the restructured FMCBP and discussions with the Safeguard Secretariat, it has been
confirmed that this is a category C project. The GOL has confirmed that the North Training Center in
Luang Prabang is located on a site that i s outside the Cultural Heritage area. The Operations Manual will
contain an environmental checklist to manage demolition of old structures containing asbestos.




                                                     17

                         APPENDIX A: PROJECT INTERVENTIONS

INITIAL PROJECTFOCUSINTERVENTIONS                    RESTRUCTUREDPROJECTRJGFOCUSED
                                                                  INTERVENTIONS
+  Financial Sector Reform Program:         four    o Financial Sector Reform Program:             The
   areas o f interventions:    (i)design and          restructured FMCBP will provide support
   implementation o f individual restructuring        towards implementation o f the Financial
   plans for state owned commercial banks             Sector Strategy which is expected to be
   (SCBs); (ii)to assess, develop and support the     approved by September 2007.          The main
   legal and institutional framework for NPL          inputsthat the FMCBP will provide under this
   resolution; (iii)strengthen the capacity o f       component are: (i)  technical assistance (TA) to
   Bank o f Lao PDR (BOL) to supervise SCBs           revisingthe accounting and auditing standards
   and the capacity o f GOL to monitor and            on commercial banks, and improving credit
   support Bank Restructuring Plans; and (iv) to      information sharing among commercial banks;
   develop rural and micro finance.                   (ii)TA towards improvingdatamanagement
                                                      in the Bank         and  Financial    Institution
                                                      Supervision Department (BFSD) at the Bank
                                                      o f Lao PDR and (iii)TA to strengthen the
                                                      supervision capabilities especially on the
                                                      commercial banks which will thereby results
                                                      inahealthier bankingenvironment.

                                                      For outputs that have been achieved through
                                                      other sources o f finding see Appendix B.


+   Public Sector Reform: (i)improve budget         0 Public Finance Management Reform: The
    planning; (ii)streamline budget execution         restructured and scaled up component will re-
    and control; (iii)make the budget process         align interventions with PEMSP and New
    more transparent; (iv) increase awareness in      organic     Budget     Law     impIementation.
    the public    sector of internal control          Objectives are to provide support to: (i)the
    measures both at federal and provincial           budget department; (ii)provide technical
    levels through adoption o f international         assistance to the PEMSP implementation
    public sector accounting and auditing             committee;    (iii)the stabilization of the
    standards and establishing internal audit         Government Financial Information System,
    functions   in line ministries; and       (v)     (iv) strengthen external debt management; (v)
    strengthen oversight function o f National        improve the quality o f training delivered by
    Audit Office to mitigate fiduciary risk in        the MoF training centers - by focusing on
    government        through        conducting       curriculum reform and improving physical
    comprehensive review o f oversight bodies.        infrastructure (see details in Section C); (vi)
    Establish Procurement Monitoring Office           Englishand computer training; (vii) PrMO and
    (PrMO) to introduce transparency and              (vii) strengthen State Audit Organizational
    efficiency inprocurement.                         capability

                                                      New activities: Suwort for the rehabilitation
                                                      and extension of MoF training centers Under
                                                      capacity building development,        the new
                                                      restructured project will provide adequate
                                                      expansion of infrastructure to go in tandem
                                                      with plans for improving curriculum on public
                                                      finance management modules.


                                                  18

                            APPENDIX A: PROJECTINTERVENTIONS

                   ~~~         ~




INITIAL PROJECTFOCUSINTERVENTIONS                      RESTRUCTUREDPROJECTRE-FOCUSED
                                                                     INTERVENTIONS

+   SOE Reform and Business DeveloDment:               o SOE Reform and Business Develovment:
    (i)strengthen oversight of financial and             This component will continue to support (i)
    operational performance o f SOEs; (ii)               SOE reform and Business Development
    restructure       selected   enterprises;  (iii)     strategy, (ii)restructuring program and (iii)
    establish tariff policies reflecting cost            Monitoringand Evaluation.
    recovery for power, potable water supply,
    telecommunications, and Lao Aviation; and            For outputs that have been achieved through
    (iv) strengthen regulatory framework in              other sources o f funding see Appendix B.
    water,   energy,      telecommunications    and
    aviation sector.
+   Project Imdementation Unit: PIU will               o Project Management and Evaluation: The
    manage FMCBC on behalf of MoF and                    newly established PFMSU will continue to
    coordinate      activities,  including   project     deliver on initial outputs       as specified.
    planning and monitoring, procurement o f             However, given its expanded mandate, the
    goods and consultant          services, project      restructured FMCBP will allocate more
    management          and     administration   o f     resources to focus on PFMSU staff training
    contracts,   financial      management      and      and capacity building.      It is critical that
    accounting to ensure their timely and                FMCBP be the vehicle to ensure medium to
    successful implementation.                           long term capacity building for PFMSU so
                                                         that MoF can capitalize on its human resources
                                                         to deliver on the GOL program.




                                                     19

                            APPENDIX B: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS




Original Output Indicators                            Status             Proposed Output Indicators               Comments


   1. Completion of external audit of the
December 2001- 2006 Accounts for three state     Completed for BCEL,
owned    commercial     banks    (SOCBs)      by   LDB and APB                                                   FMCBC Funded
internationalauditors (December 2002)
                                                                                                                ~




   2. Financial and operational review and       Completed for 2003
restructuringof the three SOCBs                  and 2o04 for BCEL,                                              FMCBC Funded
                                                   LDB, and APB
                                                                     Final on-site examination report of
                                                                     commercial banksto be completed by
                                                                     30 days from on-site visitation date to     To be funded by
                                                                     commercial bank. The current                   FMCBC
                                                                     baseline is more than 60 days
   3. Developmentof a voluntary framework for
non-performingloans (NPLs) resolution                 ADB TA
                                                                                                                ~
   4. Enhancement of Bank of Lao PDR (BOL)            ADB TA
supervisory capacity; through directed training                                                                   ADB Funded
   5. Establishment of policy framework and
enabling environment for sustainable rural and        ADB TA                                                      ADB Funded
micro-credit
                                                                     50 percent of loan accounts reported
   6. Developmentof appropriate MIS Systems                          in Customer Information Bureau
to support customer service and information           ADB TA         system by 2009. Currently there is no       To be funded by
management in the banking sector                                     systematic reportingof loan accounts,          FMCBC
                                                                     and only large loans are reported on a
                                                                     random basis
                                                                     Proposed Output Indicators                   Comments
                                                                                                                  EU Funded



                                                              20

    8. Targeted training for banking personnel in                                                                 ADB and EU
Lao PDR.                                              ADB and EU                                                    Funded

                                                                           Allocation of resourcesto health
    1. Budget planning      - Establishment of                             and education made on the basis of
guidelines    and methodologies for future                                 a set of Budget Norms by
recurrent costs of investment projects and              Completed          FY2009110.At the moment               FMCBC Funded
clissemination of guidelines through workshops                             allocations are not based on
and seminars.                                                              function but only be economic
                                                                           classification only
                                                                           Revised budget classification
    2. Revised budget classification to allow        Revisedbudget         deployed forthe Budget by
identification of expenditures by ministry,       classification approved  FY2008/9 allowing for information       IDA Grant
province,service.                                 by Ministerfor Finance
                                                  April 2007Completed      on functional classificationof the
                                                                           budget
                                                                           Budgetexecution reports prepared
                                                                           in time for the NationalAssembly
    3. Extension of pilot accounting system and    GFlS rolled-out to all  presentationof the budget starting
computer systems to all line ministries and           provinces and        the FY2007/8, by stabilizingthe       FMCBC Funded
larger provinces.                                 ministries by January
                                                      October 2006         GFlS environment, increased
                                                                           training in its usageand improved
                                                                           connectivity
    4. Completion of an expenditure tracking                                                                     FMCBC funded
survey in education sector.                             Completed        I                                        workshops
    5. Completion of comprehensive review and                                              quality by supporting
adoption of recommendation of oversight                          -new      aImproveaudit
                                                                             comprehensivecapacity building
bodies i.e. National Audit Office, State          Audit Law submitted to   planfor the SA0 based on an Audit     FMCBC Funded
InspectionAgency.                                   NationalAssembly       Peer Review by December2010
    6. Adoption of international public sector
accounting standards.                                     ADB TA                                                  ADB Funded
                                                                           Standard bidding documents for
    7. Establishment of Procurement Monitoring        Completed    -       procurementoperationalizedfor
Office    (PrMO)     to   monitor   procurement       Procurement          use by Government.Currently the       FMCBC Funded
procedures.                                          MonitoringOffice
                                                        Established        standard biddingdocuments have
                                                                           been prepared but not adopted
                                                                           New curriculum aligned to new MoF
                                                                           responsibilitiesas per new organic
    8. Launch a government wide training                                   BudgetLaw adopted, increased
program for procurement monitoring and                    On-going         computer.user ratio, increase in      FMCBC Funded
financial management.                                                      librarymaterial access,and
                                                                         II lmdement
                                                                           imwove infrastructureof MoF
                                                                           tra'ining centers as per the PEMSP
                                                                                            -
                                                                                       a suitableframework of
                                                                           Triasury Single Account to manage
                                                                           the governmentfinancial resources       IDA Grant


    Original OutputIndicators                                                                                     Comments
111. State Owned EnterpriseReformand Deve
    1. Improve the effectiveness of performance                             Preparecomprehensive
monitoringsystems for all SOEs.                           On aoina          restructuringplans for at least 4    FMCBC Funded
                                                              I -           SOE's unde;iestructuring
    2. Training of MOF staff and SOE Board              Completed           PrepareSOE sector strategy by end   IFMCBC Funded


                                                                  21

                            APPENDIX B: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

members in principles of financial management                     2009
and corporategovernance.
   3. Restructuring BPKP, Lao Aviation, EDL,
Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory no. 3,                       Complete follow-on audits for
DAFl and other loss making SOEs which have         On going       FY200718and FY 200819 for SOE's
outstanding, NPLs in excess of one billion Kip  Completed for EDL under Phase 2 restructuringto    FMCBC Funded
as identifiedunder FMAC. Support audits for 14                    determine the impact of the
SOE's under Phase 1,2, and 3 restructuring                        restructuringplans
   4. Preparation and implementation of tariff
policies for power, water, transport and                                                            WB Energy
telecommunications to include cost recovery       Completed                                        Project Funded
and targeted and transparentsubsidies.
   5. Establishment of regulatory framework for
water, telecommunication and energy.              Completed                                         ADB Funded




                                                             22

                  APPENDIX C: STATUS OFUSE OF FUNDS and REVISED/NEW ALLOCATION
                               Sources of Funds: ongoing Credit C3676-LA and new IDA Grant
                                                        (costs estimates inUS$ thousand)


                                                                                                  Disbursed                    : Amountfor        :  Revisemew
                                                                                                                                                  :     allocation
           Components/Subcomponents                           ::                                                               :remainingand:
                                                                           Initial                          and                i       activities                        Additional
                                                                     allocation               committedas:new
                                                                                                                                                  : Restructured         Financing
                                                                                                Of      April Restructured
                                                                                                                  309
                                                                                                           2007                ii   underthe :          underthe
                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                     Project      :      Project

                                                                                                              B                          C        :      D=B+C               E
                                                                                              ..............................................
                                                                                                                IDA CREDIT (C3676-LA)                                 ................
                                                                                                                                                                       IDA GRANT
A: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                                                                                                          :                 :
tEFORM PROGRAM                                                :
....................................................................   3,750,000              ...............................................
                                                                                                          521,303                      196,250              717,553   ................
                                                                                                                                                                      ................
B..P.UB.r,lC.F~.N.A.NCE.MANA.GEMENT....-1.. .!,310,000.
....................................................................                          ...............................................
!A*. &!FRO!'!.?O .???M88.........................                                             .......................................... ...............
                                                                                                            ...A.
                                                                                                                090 A'... 3,116,750 :
                                                                                                                                   ...........................
                                                                                                                                                         5,428,840         2,933,400
                                                                                                     2222,110
                                                                                                       >                             3,116,750 :         5,338,860     ..........>.....
                                                                                                                                                                           2,609 400
UJFiscL?!-Plp?ln!Pgand B!.4@?t.e?~aitc?.............. .............................................. ................
                                                            -1.. ................2,31234,761
                                                            -1..                                                                :      156,000 :             190,761         700,000
.BI.1.1,SUPRO!?tOB!d@!-Dc?P!...............-1.. .............                                 ........ :      34761                          .....
.................................................. :                                                           J.....,..........       156,000 :L......---- 190,76 1
                                                                                                                                                                  .... ................
  B1.1.2.Intergovernmentalfiscal framework                                                                                                                             ..----------.-..
                                                                                                                                                                             700,000
BL?. Bu~~~~.E~~cu?~pll,-Accountinl:                                                                                                                                    ................
                                                                                                                                                                           1,909,400
..................................................
                                              and........ ..............
                                                             ;.
                                                             J - . . - . - - - - - - - - - I  .........-----,---------.-.-...c..
                                                                                              .............J.....?....c...-.~.....000 : 2,799,326
                                                                                                     1,282,326 :                     1 517        l.-----------


  B1.2.1COA and Budget Nomenclature                          J--------.-..,
...................................................................                           ......?gJ!?z?-4-...............I........... ................
                                                                                                                                                       ....-?jlg?fi          629,400
  B1.2.2 Treasury Centralization                                                              ...............................................                          .........000
                                                                                                                                                                           1,280 J-....
.........................                                                                                                                                              ................
.................................................................
  B1.2.3 Stabilization of .........................................
                                GFIS                                                          ..............{...------- 2,148,000
                                                                                                     1150,000 :                        998,000 :
                                                                                                                                             ....................
............
  B1.2.4 Strengthening External Debt MGT                      :                               ........J..112
                  ......................................................                                              .................... ~ - - -187,194~ ~................
                                                                                                                                I      355,000                 - - -    j 1 ! j ~
                                                                                                                                                    .............. ................
e!:?.
.....................................................................
  B1.2.5 Support to PrMO                                                                      ........39 ...                                                           ................
                                                                                                                                                                       ................
.B!..?..=! ul_.r~~.ulurnst~~~%~~;...............
     G@RL?G.cY-BUw?g.                                        ;...............
................... ..........---------------.---.,...........-.-,
           C                  ..........................
                                              ............. ~~~~g-                                                                                                     ................
  B1.3.2 UpgradingMoF T I
......................... Lan%xc?-ski!!: ............;...............                                                                                                  ................
  B1.3.3 Enhancing                                                                                                                                                     ................
..................
....................................................................
  B1.3.4Advisov-8?2PArt !P. REMs!?                ..........;...............                                                                                           ................
62.-s t ~ ~ ~ ~ , h . eAudit~..............;~...............~ !                                                                                                        ................
                                       ~        ~ ~ - E               ~ e ~ ~                                                                                          ..........>.....
                                                                                                                                                                             324 000

c..so-R-REF-Qw.ANDB!S!NESS
....................................................................
                                                  ........................                                                           1,320,999
                                                                                                                                       .... :            2,894,671     .------------..I
C!*- S~~.Reformand.Bus~I!!ess
a:soliRestrr?c.!~%.R?A!?E..Deve!?P!?EI!f    ...............I........................................
                                                          ...I.......................672                                                                               ................
                                                              : 2,090,000                     .---.......---~-------------....~......-------
                                                                                                     1,573 '....-&-----....r..... ........                             ................
                                                                                              ........................                 483,700 :
                                                                                                                                             -....r............-..     ................
0:M??.it9Ti!xallldEv.a!ua!kI!-           ................-1.. ......................................                            :::    304,939 :

                                                                                                                                       530,360 :
                                                                                                                                             _.___r__...........--     ................
                                                                                              ............................................... ................
                                                                                               .........r.....
                                                                                                           258 455 '          l..........
                                                                                                                                       700,000 :
                                                                                                                                             ....................
                                                                                                                                                            958,455    ................
....................................................................
E. Unallocated                                                i                               ............................................... ................
                                                                             850,000                                            j      370,005 i            370,005            66,600
GRAND TOTAL                                                   i 8,500,000                            4.665.520 i                     5.704.004 i 10,369,524                3,000,000


                  NA:    Thevalue of the SDR on April 30, 2007(exchange rate used at negotiations) was:
                   1SDR = 1.52493000USD
                  Initialproject costs is SDR 6.8million; thus the equivalent dollar value
                  on April 30, 2007 is approximately US$I0.37million




                                                                                            23


