Report No. PID11092
Project Name             Lao People's Democratic Republic-Financial (@)
Management Capacity Building Credit
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Non-Sector Specific
Project ID               LAPE77620
Borrower(s)              LAO PDR
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: That Luang Road, P.O. Box 46 Vientiane,
Lao PDR
Contact Person: Mr. Soukanh Mahalath, Minister
of Finance
Mrs. Viengthong Siphandone,
Director, External Finance Relations
Department
Tel: 856-21-412142
Fax: 856-21-412140
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        June 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 2, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 25, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Since 1997, a combination of weakening domestic reform effort and lax
macroeconomic management have aggravated the adverse effects of the
regional crisis on the Lao PDR economy. GDP growth was only maintained
due to the large subsistence agricultural base, but was slowing. The
value of the kip fell and inflation was triple digit in late 1990s.
Inappropriate domestic monetary and fiscal policy added to the external
shock, multiplying its adverse effects several fold. Policy response were
partial and ad hoc due to the lack of a political consensus for a quick
and comprehensive program to halt the deterioration. The result was a
vicious cycle of monetary expansion and accommodation, inflation,
deepening loss of confidence, encompassing the troubled financial sector
which in turn further contributed to the macroeconomic
instability.Government's Reform Efforts.     Following on the reform
embarked in 1986 which includes privatization of more than 600 SOEs, price
deregulation and opening up for foreign direct investment, the GOL renewed
its reform effort in 2000. It aims at promoting macroeconomic stability
and reducing poverty through sustainable broad-based economic growth with
equity as expressed in Lao PDR's five-year plan and its Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP). The reform program calls for continued
fiscal and monetary restraints and is centered on the implementation of
revenue enhancement, restraining credit of the BOL, restructuring
state-owned commercial banks, commercializing large SOEs, and developing
the private sector. Over the past two years, the government has made
substantial progress in macroeconomic performance with the continuation of
strong stabilizing policies and in setting the foundation for structural



reforms. These include continued fiscal prudence while monetary policy
contributed to lower inflation. The government reform program focuses on
a set of structural problems at the stage of budget formulation and
execution, inefficiencies and losses in the SOEs and the cumulative effect
of these on the fragile banking sector. Structural reforms have been
geared toward strengthening macroeconomic stability, reducing the drain on
public resources from the state-owned banking and enterprise sectors,
attracting private investment and increasing budget and financial
transparency. A. Financial Sector: : Lack of transparency, management
deficiencies and weaknesses in corporate governance have together
contributed to a decline in confidence in the banking system. The sector
has been in a precarious state and this poses a serious obstacle to
economic recovery and macroeconomic stability. Fundamental changes are
needed in several areas, including: (i) corporate governance of the
state-owned commercial banks (SCBs) (including enhanced transparency and
improved incentives for better decision-making at the board level); (ii)
upgrading of accounting standards and supervision capacity at the Central
Bank so as to effectively control credit and credit creation; (iii)
changes in regulatory policy to increase competition with a level playing
field for private and public sector banks and reducing government
interventions; and (iv) refocusing of Central Bank oversight - a shift
towards greater emphasis on the soundness and stability of the banking
system. The Central Bank needs to enhance its operational independence
and to improve the regulatory and prudential framework for commercial
banks. Finally, the financial sector includes for more than just the
banking sector to which less than 10 percent of the Lao population
currently has access. This underscores the importance of rural and micro
finance (RMF) in a country where 80 percent of the population lives in
rural area and about 40 percent lives in poverty. RMF is also an
effective tool to reduce poverty, but it is not developed in Lao PDR. The
Project, in supporting the program under the FMAC would seek to strengthen
the enabling environment for sustainable RMF. The government strategy is
to implement financial sector reform to improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation, foster confidence in the sector and to help
strengthen macroeconomic stability.B. Public Expenditure Management:
Specific measures to achieve structural improvements in public expenditure
management are needed in the government's medium-term reform agenda in
order to maintain and build on stabilization gains thus far. Improvements
are needed to increase the efficiency of public expenditure decisions and
help bring domestic expenditures and revenues into greater alignment to
reduce fiscal imbalances. This requires specific policy measures for
transparency and efficiency of public expenditure budgeting and execution
and strengthening of revenues. Fundamental issues which need to be
addressed are : (i) Recurrent spending and Public Investment Plan (PIP):
There is a persistent imbalance between recurrent and capital spending
which has reduced the benefit of resources channeled through the PIP; (ii)
Budget publication timing and classification: Budget plans and expenditure
outcomes are not published in a timely manner and the format used neither
facilitates public understanding nor allows assessment of progress against
development objectives such as those identified in the I-PRSP; (iii)
Public accounting and expenditure control: The financial management and
reporting responsibilities of the central ministries, provinces and
districts are not adequately specified in the Public Accounting Decree. In
addition expenditures have been made without adequate controls so that
actual expenditures are not always consistent with the budget plan. The
- 2 -



need to address this issue has become increasingly urgent given the rapid
pace of decentralization, especially with respect to the districts; (iv)
Public Accounting and Auditing Standards: There is not sufficient
transparency in public accounting. A review of how transparency can be
improved through oversight bodies such as the National Audit Office and
the Finance Inspection Office is required; also introduction of
streamlined international public accounting standards and accompanying
training for the relevant agencies is urgently needed; and (v)
Procurement: :The procurement process is in need of improvement to ensure
that it is efficient, transparent and fair. There is also a need for
comprehensive training of government staff. There is a general need for
greater openness but problems particularly exist in respect of contract
bidding and contracting by SOEs.C. SOE Reforms: In order to accelerate
economic growth, the government has recognized the need for SOE reforms.
However, to fulfill its commitment to market-based reforms and
international integration will require strengthening the enterprise
sector, both state-owned and private. The extensive privatization
program, supported by donors, including IDA, has divested most of the 600
enterprises that were in the public portfolio. The number and scope of
SOEs in the Lao economy have declined significantly over the past decade
through privatization/conversion of SOEs and structural reforms undertaken
in the New Economic Mechanism. However, both past and current losses of
SOEs have created significant non-performing loans in the banking system.
The debt is limiting the capacity of the banking system to finance future
growth. Furthermore, the policy of economic decentralization has given
Provincial and District governments substantial authority to create new
SOEs, and new SOEs are being created. The central government has an
incomplete view of the operational and financial performance of SOEs due
to unclear reporting requirements. The government strategy therefore in
this area is to first focus on commercial operations and immediate
improvement of the financial operations of SOEs. For the medium term,
further legal and institutional reforms will need to be pursued to enhance
the state's ability to manage risk and execute SOE reform policy, to
improve the business environment to attract foreign investment and better
accounting in the SOE sector.D. Capacity Building: Given the relatively
under-developed human resources of the government, capacity building is a
priority with critical needs in the areas of economic and financial sector
management. Government strategy is to focus on human resource development
and capacity that can be sustained for effective management of the
development efforts. This is critical in the public sector for better
public resources management and for supporting the development of a viable
private sector.
2. Objectives
Building capacity is a priority of Lao PDR and the current focus includes
building capacity for implementing the financial management reform
program. The Asian financial crisis and the accompanying macroeconomic
instability in Laos highlighted weaknesses in fiscal and monetary policies
and their implementation. While macroeconomic situation has been
stabilized since then, there are underlying fundamental imbalances that
need to be redressed: precarious status of state-owned commercial banks
(SCBs), weak public expenditure management, and inefficient state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) with significant non-performing loans. With critical
needs in the areas of economic and financial sector management and a
relatively under developed human capital base and weak institutions, the
- 3 -



Government of Lao PDR (GOL) recognizes the need to strengthen its capacity
to formulate, coordinate and implement policy measures in priority areas.
GOL faces major capacity constraints in terms of skills and institutions
to implement the reform program. The Government of Lao PDR has followed a
market-oriented reform program since 1986. The broad based and
comprehensive reform program pursued by GOL and supported by IDA, the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
other bilateral donors is focused on the areas of the financial sector,
public expenditure management, and state-owned enterprise (SOEs) reform
and development. These critical areas are the focus of the proposed
Financial Management Adjustment Credit (FMAC), being presented along with
this project, which would help solidify the gains achieved and strengthen
the basis for further reforms. The central objective of the Financial
Management Capacity Building Credit (FMCBC) project is to provide
technical assistance and training programs to support the development of
institutional capacity to assist in the successful implementation of the
governments macro-economic structural reform program. The project also
aims to provide a medium-term framework for Bank's assistance. The time
frame of the proposed Credit (5 years) is longer than the proposed FMAC (1
year) and would provide continuity to the reform program particularly in
institutional strengthening. At the same time, the proposed Credit is
envisaged to provide timely and flexible support to facilitate the
implementation of the macro-economic structural reform program. The
capacity building program is not externally driven; it has been and will
continue to be prepared in consultation with the GOL donors and other
stake holders. The capacity building program builds on the
recommendations from other donor agencies, ADB and IMF and is envisaged as
a partnership between the government and donor agencies to implement the
reform program. The proposed project would therefore support both the
achievement of the reform objectives and the long-term development of
institutional capacity through technical assistance, training programs and
system development in selected agencies in the Lao PDR. The FMCBC will
also provide a comprehensive framework for consolidating and providing a
strategic focus in capacity building activities in the Lao PDR.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There are close ties between the Association's proposed FMAC, Nam Theun 2
project and the proposed Project; the Association's support to this
project is a key element in the achievement of the over all support to Lao
PDR's program. Apart from facilitating the achievement of specific reform
objectives through targeted institutional support and capacity building,
the project also provides for overall capacity enhancement and
strengthening of the capacity of policy makers, civil servants, and key
regulatory agencies. Additionally, the project provides a vehicle to the
Association for sustained dialogue over issues identified with the
government over the period of adjustment lending. Finally, the
Association's presence helps Lao PDR to stay abreast of and achieve
international best practice with regard to the set of reforms, while the
Association's supervision machinery acts as an aid to the government's own
project monitoring mechanism in keeping up the momentum of reform and
fine-tuning its implementation over time to achieve the desired
objectives. Also, there is a clear endorsement by the donors in Lao PDR,
of Association's effort to pull together the capacity building activities
in Lao PDR in to a cohesive, coordinated framework with regular monitoring
and evaluation and forward planning.
- 4-



4. Description
A.Financial and Banking Sector Reform*
B. Public Expenditure Reform
C. State Owned Enterprise Reform and Development
D. Project Implementation Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                         $0.95
IBRD
IDA                              $8.50
Total Project Cost               $9.45
6. Implementation
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will support the MOF in managing the
project, and in co-coordinating and follow up activities under the
different project components to ensure successful implementation. The PIU
is attached to the External Finance Relation Dept. (EFRD) in the MOF and
will have the following staff:n Project Director (EFRD / MOF Official)n
Assistant Project Director (experienced consultant)n Project
Implementation Adviser (an experienced consultant)n Procurement Officer
(MOF Official)n Project Accountant (recruited from the private sector)n
Secretary (recruited from the private sector)The PIU will implement the
FMCBC Project on behalf of MOF. It will coordinate Project activities,
including Project planning and monitoring, procurement of goods and
consultant services, project management and administration of contracts,
and financial management and accounting to ensure their timely and
successful implementation. The PIU would prepare a time bound action plan
in consultation with the Association. Training under this project would
be carried out according to programs and time tables, and detailed
implementation plans for each component would be regularly updated and
submitted to the Association for approval during project
implementation.Financial Management and DisbursementProject records and
accounts would be maintained by the PIU to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures for
each project activity. The accounts will be consolidated annually into
financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting documentation
will be made available for subsequent audit by Bank's staff and
independent auditors. Project records and accounts, including the Special
Account and SOEs will be audited annually by independent auditor
acceptable to the Associoation, with audit terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank. Audit reports will be furnished to the Association within
six months after the end of each Governments fiscal year.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the proposed project hinges on the commitment of the
government to the overall reform program undertaken within the framework
of the IMF PRGF, the GOL's PRSP and the proposed FMAC. There is
sufficient evidence that the authorities are committed to the objectives
stated in these programs and have demonstrated strong ownership of the
reform program. One should not over look concerns on sustainability
arising from staff constraints in the various ministries and
institutions. However, many of the project elements proposed are designed
to make irreversible and permanent improvements to Government capacity,
- 5-



e.g,. enhancing capacity for corporate financial analysis and financial
management; training in Bank supervision, strengthening reporting
requirements for SOEs, adoption of international public sector accounting
and auditing standards and comprehensive training program on application
of those standards.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This capacity building credit embodies one of the most important lessons
learned from the previous SACs - to address in a focused manner the
capacity constraint of the GOL. Taking into account GOL's historical
unwillingness to borrow for capacity building, technical assistance and
training, the proposed project employs a flexible design in which grant
programs of other donors can replace the credit component as soon as such
grants becomes available. The design of the Project reflects and
incorporates the principles of the Country Development Partnership
Framework (CDP) being implemented in Thailand where the government is in
the lead and a large number of donors support the government's
comprehensive development framework in a complimentary manner. As the
FMCBC matrix (Annex 2 Attachment 1) shows, the proposed project is an
integral part of the overall GOL capacity building program and provides a
cohesive framework and a monitoring vehicle for the program.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In accordance with Bank's environmental policies,
this project is classified as Category C.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Abha Joshi-Ghani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: ++66-2-2567792 (356)
Fax: ++662-2567794
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 6 -



