Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3676 LA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
(Financial Management Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated August 19, 2002 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3676 LA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2002, between LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bank of Lao PDR” and the acronym “BOL” mean the Borrower’s 
central bank, and any successor thereto. 
(b) 
“Business Improvement Office” means the Borrower’s office established 
within the Office of the Prime Minister on February 11, 2002 for the purpose of 
providing a government focal point to supervise and coordinate its enterprise reform 
activities, or any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(e)  
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto. 
(f) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said manual 
may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association. 
 (g) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established by the 
Borrower in its Ministry of Finance on May 21, 2002, for the purposes set forth in 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 (h) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established by the 
Borrower for purposes of preparing and implementing the Borrower’s Financial 
Management Adjustment Credit and to be maintained for the purpose of implementing 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(i) 
“SCB” means any one of the Borrower’s state-owned commercial banks, 
and the term “SCBs” means, collectively, each of said SCB. 
(j) 
“SOE” means any one of the Borrower’s state-owned enterprises, and the 
term “SOEs” means, collectively, each of said SOE. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars in the Bank of Lao 
PDR,  in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a Special 
Page  4
-
3
-
Account.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2012 and ending April 15, 2042.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  5
-
4
-
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
develo
pment of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through its Ministry of Finance, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, management, financial and banking 
standards and practices, and shall provide, and cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations related to the Project.  
(b)  
The Borrower shall 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts  for 
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and a report of 
Page  7
-
6
-
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar 
semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have established a financial management system, 
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall have appointed to the PIU, a qualified and 
experienced Assistant Project Director and a qualified and experienced Project 
accountant, pursuant to paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
   the Borrower shall have adopted a Project Operations Manual, 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Post Office Box No. 46 
 
Vientiane 
 
La
o
People’s Democratic Republic 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:  
Facsimile:   
 
MINFINANCE 
 4369 
  856-21-412142 
 
VIENTIANE 
 MOF 
LS     
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
or 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vientiane, Lao PDR, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By 
 
/s/ Soukanh 
Mahalath 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ 
Ian C. Porter 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
Credit Allocated  
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods  
 
570,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 100%  
 
of
local expenditures
 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 90% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(2) 
Consultants’services 
 
(a)  Audit of Project 
Accounts  
20,000 
88% 
 
(b) Other 
3,580,000 
88% 
 
(3) 
Training and study tours 
1,800,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
160,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
670,000 
________ 
 TOTAL 
6,800,000
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Project Implementation Unit and the Business Improvement Office in 
managing and coordinating the implementation of the Project, including costs of office 
equipment and communication, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
the Project, but excluding staff salaries. 
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts with 
individuals, costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under 
contracts with firms, costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) training and study 
tours; and (e) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
structural adjustment macro-economic reform program through capacity building 
activities and technical assistance that support its program in the areas of  financial sector 
reform, public sector reform and SOE reform. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
PART A
:
Financial Sector Reform
Carrying out of a reform program on the financial sector, including:  the design 
and implementation of individual restructuring plans for SCBs; the development and 
implementation of a legal and institutional framework for the resolution by SCBs of non-
performing loans; the strengthen
ing of the Bank of Lao PDR’s capacity to supervise 
SCBs; strengthening the capacity of BOL to monitor and support SCBs’ restructuring 
plans; and the development of a policy, legal and regulatory regime for the monitoring of 
public procurement and a rural and micro finance pilot scheme, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, training, workshops, study tours and equipment and the 
development and installation of a management information system for the Bank of Lao 
PDR’s supervision and examination activities. 
PART B
:
Public Sector Reform 
Carrying out of a program on capacity building for the Borrower in respect of 
public sector reform, including:  budget planning, execution and control; enabling 
transparency in the budgetary process and public finances; public disclosure of financial 
information; and public sector accounting and auditing standards; through the provision 
of consultants’ services, training, and workshops therefor.  
PART C
:
SOE Reform
Carrying out of a program on capacity building for the Borrower in respect of 
SOE reform, including: oversight of the financial and operational performance of SOEs; 
SOE restructuring; and development and implementation of tariff policies; through the 
provision of consultants’ services, office equipment and training therefor.   
Page  14
-
13
-
PART D
:
Project Implementation Unit Support
Strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit’s capacity for Project 
implementation on, inter alia, financial management and audits, through the provision of 
vehicles, consultants’ services,  computer hardware and related software. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2007. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement  
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedure
1. 
 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and 
the provisions of this paragraph. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, shall be those set forth in the Decree No. 95/PM 
dated December 5, 1995 on Government Procurement of Goods, Works Construction, 
Repairs and Services (hereinafter Decree 95/PM) and Implementing Rules and 
Regulations Labieb No. 1639/MOF dated December 22, 1998 on Government 
Procurement of Goods, Works Construction, Repairs and Services (hereinafter IRRs 
1639/MOF) of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, with the following clarifications 
required for compliance with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
no preference whatsoever will be given to a domestic bidder over foreign 
bidders or to an SOE over a non-SOE; 
Page  16
-
15
-
(ii) 
awards shall be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid, and any 
bid award based upon a point system, or any other criteria other than the lowest 
evaluated bid, shall be deemed invalid; 
(iii) 
bids will not be automatically rejected for lack of effective competition 
solely on the basis of the number of bidders or because all bid prices substantially 
exceed the budget allocated and the provisions of paragraph (j) of Article 4 of the 
IRRs 1639/MOF will apply only as hereby modified by the provisions on 
rejections of bids set forth in paragraphs 2.59-2.62 of the Guidelines; 
(iv) 
SOEs in the Borrower’s country may participate only if they can 
establish that they:  (i) are legally and financially autonomous, and (ii) operate 
under commercial law.  No dependent agency of the Borrower shall be permitted 
to bid or submit a proposal for the procurement of goods or works under the 
Project; and 
(v) 
the Borrower shall not require bidders or potential bidders to register as 
such with the relevant authority of the Borrower as a condition of bidding. 
2. National 
Shopping
Locally manufactured equipment estimated to costs less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the United Nations’ Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph  3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a)  With respect to all contracts governed by Part B and with respect to the first 
contract for goods, regardless of its amount, governed by subparagraph (a) of Part C.1, 
Section I to this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior  to the selection of any supplier/execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;  
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.   
(c) 
With respect to all contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
maintain the Project Steering Committee, under the direction of the 
Minister of Finance, and with membership acceptable to the Association, to provide 
policy direction and guidance, evaluate the Project outcome, and ensure inter-agency 
coordination in the implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain the PIU, 
under the direction of a qualified and experienced manager, staffed with competent 
personnel in sufficient number and provided with adequate resources, including an 
Assistant Project Director, a Procurement Officer, a Project Accountant, and a Project 
Secretary, with qualifications and experience and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association and selected in accordance with Part C.1, Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and provided with adequate resources, said Unit to be responsible for the 
day-to-day administration of the Project, including, overall project financial management, 
planning and budgeting, procurement of goods and consultants’ services, and preparing 
consolidated financial statements, Financial Monitoring Reports, and progress reports. 
2. 
The Borrower shall,  through the PIU, prepare, adopt and thereafter apply the 
Operations Manual, acceptable to the Association, in the implementation of the Project, 
which Operations Manual shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) the procurement procedures for 
goods and services as set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) financial 
management reporting procedures, including audit procedures as set forth in Article IV of 
this Agreement; and (iii) the Project Performance Indicators as set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter to this Agreement.  The Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, assign, 
repeal, suspend or waive any of the provisions of the Operations Manual without the 
prior concurrence of the Association.  
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, 
commencing in 2002 a quarterly progress report, each such report integrating the results 
Page  21
-
20
-
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph 3, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the  
preceding calendar quarter and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
promptly review with the Association each of the reports referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 3 and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
4. 
For the purposes of carrying out the audit under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall, by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association may 
otherwise agree, retain the services of an external auditor with qualifications and 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and selected in 
accordance with Section II, Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to: 
$500,000 in respect of the Special Account of the Project, to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 
1,500,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
which does not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request for deposit into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  23
-
22
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Parts  of the Project shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
