                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31525

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-28120 PPFI-P8890)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                                 FOR A

                     NAIROBI - MOMBASA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                            February 8, 2005




Transport
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (KES)
                                    KES 1.0 = US$ 0.012
                                      US$ 1 = KES 80.4
                                    SDR 1 =    US$1.456

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1  June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EU      European Union
GOK     Government of Kenya
HDM     Highway Design Model
HMMS    Highway Maintenance Management System
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
KRB     Kenya Roads Board
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
MOPWH   Ministtry of Public Works and Housing
MORPWH  Ministry of Roads, Public Works and Housing
MOTC    Ministry of Transport and Communications
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
RMI     Road Maintenance Initiative
RWI     Road Works Inspectorate
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
THSP    Third Highway Sector Project



                             Vice President:   Gobind Nankani
                           Country Director    Makhtar Diop
                            Sector Manager     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Josphat O. Sasia

                                            KENYA
                                NAIROBI MOMBASA ROAD


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P035691                                                  Project Name: KENYA - NAIROBI MOMBASA
                                                                     ROAD
Team Leader: Josphat O. Sasia                                        TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 7, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: KENYA - NAIROBI MOMBASA ROAD                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-28120; PPFI-P8890
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government administration
                            (7%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/16/1994                                     Effective: 05/13/1996                04/11/1997
     Appraisal: 07/07/1994                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  10/13/1999
      Approval: 01/30/1996                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/MIN OF WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         S. Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:             Josphat O. Sasia                               Simon Thomas
ICR Primary Author:             Josphat O. Sasia; Labite Victorio
                                Ocaya


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Background

  This project was initially a component of a proposed Third Highway Sector Project (THSP) a
follow-on project to the Second Highway Sector Project that closed in 1993. The Bank support
for the THSP hinged on Government of Kenya's (GOK) commitment to (i) achieve financial
sustainability within the road sector particularly allocating adequate resources for road
maintenance, which had been neglected over the years; (ii) define a Strategic Plan with clear
expenditure priorities between maintenance, rehabilitation, upgrading and new construction
together with an investment program, and (iii) define an explicit institutional and policy
framework necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the strategic plan and identified
priorities. THSP was to support the implementation of the Strategic Plan. Meanwhile, the road
conditions of the Nairobi-Mombasa road were deteriorating very fast and it became a major
transport constraint not only for Kenya but the larger East Africa region that relies on the port of
Mombasa. Under these circumstances, the Government proposed in December 1993 that this
particular road section, though included in the THSP, be de-linked and considered as a separate
project.

The Bank was faced with three options in deciding to de-link this project from the THSP: (i) not
to de-link the Nairobi Mombasa road rehabilitation from the THSP; (ii) de-link with no
institutional and policy reforms under the project due to enormous deterioration of the road which
needed immediate attention; and (iii) de-link and include implementation of institutional and
policy reforms under the project.

Option (iii) was adopted, even though the sector approach was the best framework to address
overall sector issues. Options (i) and (ii) were not considered because, first, the likely adverse
effects on the economy were serious as the Northern corridor is the main transport link between
Kenya's primary production areas and the port of Mombasa. Second, the poor state of the road
network in Kenya was mainly due to lack of adequate maintenance funding and dubious
expenditure priorities. Inevitably any sustainable support could not ignore focusing on improved
expenditure management, policy and institutional reforms in the sector. Lastly, the achievement of
the CAS objectives of promoting the development of export-oriented private sector would have
been constrained, as this road is a key link to the export market.

In adopting, option (iii), Bank also reviewed the various Government initiatives including the
dialogue with other donors with regard to a comprehensive rehabilitation of the Nairobi-Mombasa
road. Accordingly, an agreement was reached with the Bank, European Union (EU) and GOK on
the overall rehabilitation of the road as a stand-alone project but within the framework of policy
and institutional reform and development of road sector strategy. This was in recognition that the
road was a primary freight transport route not only for Kenya but also for the neighbouring
countries and had become a serious transport constraint.

Governance matters in Kenya during this period though evident through inappropriate public
expenditures and uneven implementation of policy reforms were not adequately understood within
the Bank during preparation of this project as is the case today with the establishment of
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) two (2) years after approval of this project



                                                  - 2 -

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated November 8,
1995 were to: (i) safeguard the Borrower's main transport link between its primary production
areas and the port of Mombasa through the reconstruction and strengthening of the
Nairobi-Mombasa road, (ii) strengthen the monitoring and control of road maintenance activities,
(iii) encourage private sector involvement in the maintenance of infrastructure, and (iv) provide
basic support for road maintenance planning.

The objectives were stated clearly. They were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) discussed by the Executive Directors on April 5, 1994 of stimulating the economic growth
through the development of an export-oriented private sector. The project was also to promote
the CAS through increasing the role of the private sector in road maintenance and helping to
ensure cost-effective maintenance of basic infrastructure, which was a critical function of
Government.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised of three main components: (a) reconstruction/strengthening of the
Nairobi-Mombasa road; (b) pilot routine maintenance contracts; and (c) institutional support
including twinning with an external road agency. The estimated project cost was US$ 122 million,
with a proposed financing through an IDA credit of US$ 50 million (41% of the total project
cost), EU grant of US$ 58.8 million (48%) and Government counterpart contribution of US$13.2
million (11 percent of project cost). The Government counterpart contribution related only to the
IDA portion of the project.

The EU funding was exclusively toward civil works of Km 103 ­238 that is, the Sultan Hamud ­
Mtito Andei (135 Km) and whose implementation experienced a slow start such that
construction started in April 2003 well after the completion of the IDA financed section. In
addition, EU financed emergency resealing of this road section while the design and main works
funding was being worked out.

3.4 Revised Components:
The civil works contracts attracted very competitive bids and Ministry of Roads and Public Works
with these savings, undertook additional critical works including widening of three road bridges,
one railway bridge (the road had effectively been acting as a dam, protecting the railway
embankment) and repair of a 9 Km loop road through Voi town off the Nairobi-Mombasa road.
The pilot routine maintenance contracts and twinning arrangements were dropped. The rest of the
other institutional support components such as establishment of Road Works Inspectorate,
establishing a secure source of funding maintenance, and design studies including the preparatory
work under the NCTIP were successfully completed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the Project is rated as satisfactory. The project was a relatively simple



                                                 - 3 -

and well-focused standard investment project. The Bank's assessment of various options available
and adoption of one that combined fundamental policy and institutional reforms under a
comparatively "small" investment project, worked well. Otherwise these reform issues would not
have been implemented had they remained under THSP, which eventually was dropped.

Experience on previous Bank assisted projects in Kenya roads sector provided insights. Typically
the physical improvement objectives were achieved but not sustained. Benefits gradually reduced
by subsequent inadequate road maintenance. The Board date was postponed on two separate
occasions, arising from Government decision to (i) construct a new international airport, and then
(ii) purchase a presidential aircraft at a time when the road sector was experiencing serious
financial constraints. The progressive increase in funding for road maintenance was key to
approval of this project. Development partners in the sector and the Letter of Sector Policy were
explicit on these issues by linking support to increased budgetary allocation for road maintenance
and accelerating institutional and policy reform.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the Project is rated as Satisfactory. The achievement of the objective to
safeguard the Borrower's main transport link between its primary production areas and the port of
Mombasa through the reconstruction and strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa road is rated
highly satisfactory. The El Nino rains destruction of this road would have resulted into a major
economic crisis in the East African region had this project not come just in time. Emergency
repairs under a variation order were undertaken to address this crisis prior to the commencement
of the main road works. The main road construction for the Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate section
was successfully completed on time and within the budget. To enhance the quality of the this
transport corridor, additional works including widening of Kenani, Tsavo and Voi River bridges,
Mbololo railway culverts and the repair of the road through Voi town were undertaken and
completed on time. The Government using its own funds concurrently carried out periodic
maintenance of the section between Bachuma Gate and Maji ya Chumvi and Miritini and
Mombasa town. This resulted in a major improvement to road transport operating conditions, and
a substantial reduction in vehicle operating costs and travel time between Nairobi and Mombasa.
These benefits will be augmented once the on-going construction of the EU funded section, Mtito
Andei - Sultan Hamud (135 Km) is completed.

        The second objective to strengthen the monitoring and control of road maintenance
activities was successful. The envisaged institutional setup to provide the required oversight in
the road sector, and establishment of a secure financing mechanism for road maintenance were
achieved. The Road Works Inspectorate (RWI) was established through Project Preparation
Facility, and undertakes technical audits of road works activities. This has greatly contributed to
improving efficiency, cost effectiveness and accountability in all aspects of construction and
maintenance activities. Kenya Roads Board (KRB) was established and provides major
improvements in policy direction, expenditure priorities, accountability, funding and
implementation in the sector. On securing a sustainable financing mechanism for road
maintenance, a Road Maintenance Levy was introduced and generates substantial funds annually
for road maintenance and repair. Through the fuel levy, the Government is able to generate more



                                                 - 4 -

resources above the agreed maintenance-financing plan. For instance, the target under the project
was for Government to provide Ksh. 6.1 billion annually for road maintenance of the classified
network but through the fuel levy and transit tolls over Ksh. 9 billion (equivalent to Ksh. 6 billion
in real terms) is collected annually for road maintenance. This was a major step by the
Government in its efforts to resolve the long-standing financial issue that faced the road sector
prior to the introduction of this fund. Enforcement of Axle Load Control along the Northern
Corridor was enhanced though it contributed to an increase in freight charges, it also helped to
reduce the deterioration rate of the road conditions on the Northern Corridor. However, the
standard of enforcement has subsequently declined. The Government is deliberating on alternative
enforcement mechanisms in the context of the proposed road concessioning.

The third objective to encourage private sector involvement in the maintenance of
infrastructure was achieved though not explicitly as designed under the project, but as part of
the overall policy and institutional reforms in the roads sector and the general public sector.

The fourth objective to provide basic support for road maintenance planning was met. The
road inventory and condition survey study has now been substantially completed and the
MORPW has a rationalized road inventory, condition and updated maps of the classified road
network. The Ministry is working on establishing a clear sustainable system of updating this data.
A similar study will be undertaken under the Northern Corridor Transport Improvement Project
(NCTIP) to cover the rest of the road network.

Overall, (i) the strong institutional structure that was developed under this project through the
establishment of KRB, introduction of the Road Maintenance Fund that receives about Ksh. 9
billion annually (US$ 110 million equivalent) from the fuel levy now form the foundation upon
which subsequent support to the roads sector is anchored on a more sustainable basis; (ii) the
comparatively lower units costs for road reconstruction achieved under this project compared to
similar projects in Kenya now provides a benchmark upon which costing of rehabilitation and
recontsruction of road works is based; and (iii) pioneering of private sector involvement in road
activities has encouraged Government to deepen this initiative through the planned road
concessioning and long term performance based maintenance contracting.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project's three main components (outputs) were successfully implemented.




                                                  - 5 -

(a)      The component on the reconstruction and strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road
is rated highly satisfactory. The IDA financed section, Bachuma Gate ­ Mtito Andei (150 Km),
was successfully completed on time and within budget. The construction of the EU funded
section Km 103 - 238 (Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei) started in April 2003 and about 30 km has
been constructed and handed over to the Government with another 20 Km completed and to be
handed over soon. The IDA financed section was estimated to cost US$ 52.8 million, however
very competitive bids were received and US$ 35.03 million was spent on this component
including the additional works as described in section 4.1 above. The performance of the road has
been good since completion. This has resulted in (i) a major improvement to road transport
operating conditions; (ii) reduced travel time between Nairobi and Mombasa by about 40%, that
is from 12 hours before the project to 7-8 hours after the project, and (iii) a substantial reduction
in vehicle operating costs.

(b)     Pilot Routine Road Maintenance: Three sections on the Northern Corridor were
identified for routine maintenance by contract on a pilot basis as an alternative to force account.
During project implementation a number of changes to this component happened. These included:
(i) the El Nino rains damaged some sections so extensively that normal routine maintenance
became impractical without immediate major remedial works; (ii) the recognition by the MORPW
that force account capability had declined so much (partly due to GOK implementing overall
public sector reform) to an extent that meaningful comparison was no longer plausible; (iii) major
delays in the implementation of the twinning arrangements which was designed to provide
contract maintenance training and support; and (iv) decision by the MORPW that private sector in
road maintenance was the only way forward in maintaining infrastructure and piloting as was
envisaged under the project was not necessary; and (v) the Government was implementing public
sector reform programs including rationalization of functions of ministries and rightsizing,
retrenchment and privatization. These measures provided the basis for contracting out certain
identified activities suitable to the private sector. Accordingly the Government decided that
contracting out maintenance of infrastructure assets was the way forward and therefore piloting
was no longer necessary and the component was dropped from the project.

This notwithstanding, private sector involvement in routine maintenance has increased, especially
for such activities as grading. For instance, at appraisal almost 100 % of major rehabilitation road
works and about 70 % of periodic maintenance works were contracted out. All the routine
maintenance works were carried out by force account. Currently 100% of new and rehabilitation
works are contracted out, 80% periodic and about 40% routine maintenance works. In addition,
to deepen private sector participation in road maintenance MORPW is considering the
introduction of concessioning/long term performance based maintenance contracting on part of its
network under the NCTIP.

(c)     The implementation performance of the institutional support component was mixed.
Some sub-components experienced major delays and eventually dropped and others were
successfully implemented. Specifically:




                                                   - 6 -

Road Works Inspectorate (RWI) was successfully established and continues to undertake
technical audits of road works to complement the financial audits undertaken by other
departments of government. RWI reports have contributed to implementation of remedies
including MORPW negotiating and scaling down scope of works for contracts found to be
unfavourable to the Government. Initially the RWI reported to the Chief Engineer (Roads) but
now reports to Permanent Secretary through Engineer-in-Chief an appropriate shift that occurred
during project implementation. However, due to its satisfactory performance, the role of the RWI
was extended to include verification and approval of payment certificates. This created substantial
additional workload for the RWI for which it was neither staffed and equipped nor suited to do.
The results were delays in approving payments, and the random inspection of contracts for
technical audit was significantly reduced. In addition, the new role created a conflict of interest.
RWI was both verifying certificates as correct, while also being responsible for the technical
audits of the same works. The Bank has recommended that MORPW relieve the RWI these
additional responsibilities to concentrated on continuous random technical audit and adopt
internationally acceptable contractual practice in FIDIC based contracts.

The Twinning Arrangements envisaged combining both technical assistance and training from an
established overseas road agency suffered long procurement delays. Progress on implementing the
sub-component stalled and eventually it was deleted from the project due to (i) procurement
delays, (ii) high turnover of key staff in MORPW most of whom had different view on the matter
in which the twinning partner was identified and the usefulness of twinning; and (iii) the
reluctance and indecision on the side of the twinning partner to conclude the contract. Eventually
MORPW decided to drop this contract as moving ahead with the contract required extending the
Credit closing date beyond the revised closing date. Instead MORPW opted to train its staff in
contract management under the project.

Mechanical and Transport Department (MTD) Strategic Options Study was dropped as
contracting out increased and the Roads Department was not obliged to use MTD equipment for
road maintenance and could hire from the private sector. However the role of the department is
under review in the context of deepening of reforms in the roads sector. An Inter-Ministerial
Reform Taskforce established by the Government with advisory and facilitation support provided
under the project spearheads this. Key recommendations of the Taskforce will be implemented
under the NCTIP.

Road Inventory and Condition Survey study: The road inventory and condition survey study for
the classified road network was substantially completed. The MORPW has produced an updated
and rationalized inventory, condition and updated maps of the classified road network. To build
on this, a similar study will be undertaken for the unclassified road network under the NCTIP,
which will greatly assist in the prioritization, planning and budgeting of road maintenance and
improvement activities.




                                                   - 7 -

Road Maintenance Funding and Implementation of the Strategy Plan
The introduction of the Road Maintenance Levy Fund was to fulfill an agreement under the
project that continued support for the road sector would be upon substantial increase in
maintenance funding for the classified road network to reach full funding by 2000. A schedule for
maintenance funding was agreed which, would progressively bring funding to the level required
for maintenance of the classified road network. Table 1 below compares the maintenance levels
agreed and the actual budgetary allocation.




                                                - 8 -

Table 1: Levels of Maintenance Funding and Agreed Budget Allocations for Maintenance
(Ksh. Million)

         Year      Agreed Maintenance Funding       Budget Allocation for Maintenance
         FY96                  3,645                               3,633
        FY97                   4,120                               4,314
        FY98                   4,605                               5,277
        FY99                   5,296                               4,984
        FY00                   6,094                               6,293
        FY01                   6,160                               6,885
        FY02                   6,160                               8,058
        FY03                   6,160                               8,461
         FY04                  6,160                               8,581

From FY99 all maintenance funding is exclusively derived from the fuel levy and transit tolls. At
appraisal, it was estimated that Ksh. 6.16 billion was sufficient for maintenance of the classified
road network. It is clear from the table that the Government closely followed the agreed schedule.
The level of funding of about Ksh 9 billion generated annually is almost sufficient taking into
account inflation to fully cover road maintenance of the classified road network if the road
network was in a maintainable condition. This is a major step by the Government in its efforts to
resolve the long-standing financial issue that faced the road sector prior to the introduction of this
fund.

During the implementation of this project, external funding to the sector drastically reduced due
to donor concerns with regard to economic governance in the country. Increasingly, domestic
resources for road maintenance from the fuel levy replaced external funding leaving a big
financing gap. Inevitably the resources collected for road maintenance were utilized for
rehabilitation at the expense of periodic and routine maintenance. In spite of this, the Government
was able to hold the road network from total collapse. However, the priorities established in the
Strategic Plan priorities were shelved and roads with comparatively little economic priority were
allocated substantial resources: this raised questions as to whether road users received value for
money. This notwithstanding, at appraisal, 3.9% of the classified road network was in good
condition, 12.5% in fair condition while 83.6% was in poor condition. At completion of this
project 17% of the network is in good condition, 39% in fair condition and 44% in poor
condition.

Preparation of future projects

The savings under the project were used to finance the preparatory work under the NCTIP and
additional road works including (i) the widening of 4 bridges, and repair of a 9 km loop road
through Voi town; (ii) the feasibility and design studies of about 230 Km (out of 373 Km are
under NCTIP) of road sections; (iii) technical assistance to the inter-ministerial road sector reform
taskforce working on deepening of the reforms in the road sector; and (iv) consultants' services
for identifying HIV/AIDS mitigation measures along the Northern Corridor and road safety
improvement. All these were successfully completed by the close of the Credit, March 31, 2004.



                                                 - 9 -

Processing of a Supplementary Credit was dropped due to slow project preparation by MORPW
and the need for a second extension of the Credit closing which was considered untenable.

Major Developments

Significant achievements in the sector reform during implementation of this project include:
Ø       Establishment of a strong institutional structure that provides a basis for future support in
the roads sector
Ø       Introduction of the Road Maintenance Fuel Levy which now generates Ksh. 9 billion
annually (approx. US$ 110 million annually for road maintenance, one of the largest Road Fund in
Africa;
Ø       Establishment of the Kenya Roads Board (KRB) that manages the Road Fund and now
provides a chance for major improvements in policy direction, expenditure priorities and
accountability in the sector;
Ø       Establishment of a Road Works Inspectorate (RWI) within the MORPW that undertakes
technical audits of road works activities which has greatly contributed to improving efficiency,
cost effectiveness and accountability in all aspects of construction and maintenance activities;
Ø       Enforcement of the axle load control enhanced; and
Ø       Decentralization of flow of road maintenance funds to all corners of the country and
decision making, priority setting through District Roads Committees.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A full cost-benefit analysis of the capital investment input in the improvement of the Mtito Andei -
Bachuma Gate section was undertaken at appraisal using HDMIII. A repeat of the analysis has
been carried out by the MORPW using HDM IV. In both analyses only the effect of the
improvement of pavement condition/strength on vehicle operating costs and maintenance costs
has been considered. At appraisal, the results of the analysis were as follows: FYRR 20.6 %, NPV
US$ 138.2 million, and ERR 43.9 %. In the repeat analysis using the actual capital costs spread
over the period of implementation, the results are as follows: FYRR 16.86%; NPV US$ 35.2
million; and ERR 28.7%. The results imply that the project was economically viable both at
appraisal and after implementation. The lower result of ERR after improvement, may be
explained comparatively higher actual capital costs of Ksh. 3.04 million against Ksh. 1.975 million
assumed at appraisal arising from depreciation of Ksh. against the US$ and additional civil works
discussed elsewhere. Actual capital expenditures were incurred from 1997 to 2001 compared to
1996 to 1998 envisaged at appraisal. Details on the full analysis are provided in Annex 3.

A preliminary economic analysis of the EU section was done in November 1995 and the results
were as follows: NPV US$ 131million and ERR 36.7%. There is no indication that an economic
analysis will be done after the completion of this section, scheduled for completion by September
2005.

No economic analysis was done for the other components due to difficult in quantifying the
benefits in monetary terms. But their contribution is highly recognized.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial Analysis was done at appraisal and none has been done for the ICR.



                                                 - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact is rated as satisfactory. Institutional
arrangements in the sector were developed and responsibilities of various agencies clarified with
the enactment of the Kenya Road Board Act. A secure funding arrangement was established
through the creation of the Road Maintenance Fund, which receives US$110 million annually
from fuel levy and transit tolls. In addition, with the agreement to establish a National Highways
Authority to manage a core road network, these benefits are likely to be consolidated.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The two main factors were: first, El Nino rains which extensively damaged some sections of the
Northern corridor including the sections earmarked for pilot routine maintenance contracting and
made it impractical to implement these contracts as originally envisaged. Instead, major remedial
works funded by the Bank and EU, were undertaken prior to the project works, thereby altering
the concept designed under the project. Second, the reluctance on the part of the identified
twinning partner impeded the conclusion of the twinning arrangement.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As mentioned elsewhere the Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) was established two (2)
years after the approval of this project and therefore Bank's knowledge and information on
governance issues was scanty. Most factors that affected implementation and outcome of the
project mainly revolved around governance issues. Previous experience on Bank funded projects
in the sector provided a basis for addressing problems once they ensued during project
implementation.

The key factors were:
(i)     Road Maintenance Funding Plan - Strong GOK commitment on ensuring progressive
increase in budgetary provision for road maintenance resulted in exemplary results through the
establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund that now receive Ksh. 9 billion (US$ 110 million
equivalent) annually from the fuel levy and transit tolls amounts above levels agreed at appraisal.
This was achieved in spite of deteriorating governance and increasing fiscal distress affecting the
entire economy.
(ii)      Submission of audit reports - Audit reports were initially submitted late due to delays in
the preparation of annual financial statements and capacity constraints at the Office of the
Controller & Auditor General (CAG). Non-compliance with reporting requirements led to
suspension of remittances to the Special Account on one occasion. In response, MORPW
appointed and entrusted one accountant with the responsibility of preparing the accounts early
enough for auditing by CAG. Meanwhile the CAG can now contract out this activity in times of
constrained capacity, as is the case for the NCTIP.
(iii)     Countersigning of contracts by the MOF - this requirement partly contributed to delays in
commencement of works as contract could only become effective after MOF countersignature.
The Government's procurement law is under review to address this issue among others. In the
interim, for this project and the NCTIP, the MOF posted a senior procurement specialist to
MORPW to handle all procurement issues.




                                                     - 11 -

(iv)    Project implementation arrangements ­ initially there was no specific project team
responsible for the overall project implementation. For instance, no designated accountant was
responsible for financial management of the project including ensuring that payments were made
on time. During project implementation, MORPW established an empowered Project Technical
Team (PTT) with key staff established to handle all aspects of the project on a day-to-day basis
including financial management, procurement, technical, environment and social issues. This is
aloso applicable to NCTIP.
(v)     Payment of contractors, supplier and consultants ­ delays in processing of payment was a
constant feature at the early stages of project implementation mainly due to lengthy payment
processing procedures requiring some 23 approvals and signatures including those expected to
provide independent oversight. For instance, involvement by the RWI and Internal Audit was not
considered necessary. In response, MORPW reduced the number of approvals and signatures to
7. This will also apply to the NCTIP.
(vi)    Release of counterpart funding - The Government faced serious financial difficulties that
caused delayed release of counterpart funding. In addition, the comparatively higher local cost
component of the civil works contracts (40%) than was envisaged during project preparation
(20%) compounded the situation. Subsequently, IDA agreed to increase its financing percentage
of local costs to 28 percent which improved the release of counterpart funding. For the NCTIP
the MORPW opted to provide quarterly counterpart funding requirements at the beginning of
every quarter.
(vii)   Sector priorities - the development of a third international airport, at Eldoret, and the
purchase of a presidential jet contributed to the postponement of the Board date on two
occasions. Such large expenditure seemed impossible to justify in the light of conditions in the
road sector. Implementation of the strategic plan was therefore key to addressing such issues.
(viii)   Fulfilment of conditions of Credit Effectiveness - the approval of a strategic plan for the
road sector by the Cabinet delayed by almost 14 months. However, once the project became
effective, implementation was satisfactory

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MORPW had the capacity to implement the project. The following factors impacted on
project implementation:

(i)     Differences in Technical Opinion - the project suffered a two-year delay due to slow
completion of the design done in-house and differences in technical opinion on the design by the
design review and supervision consultants. Hence the bidding documents were not ready at Board
approval. In addition, MORPW rejected the first two Contractor's Representatives for lacking
sufficient experience and were subsequently replaced by more qualified and experienced staff.
(ii)    Quality of works supervision Consultants' Staff - the selection of the design review and
supervision consultants was protracted due to quality of the Consultants staff. The Bank only
accepted the consultants on condition that they employed a senior civil engineer with international
experience as Senior Resident Engineer. This enhanced the engineering supervision team and
complemented the support of two experienced senior engineers from MORPW who were
responsible for the management of the civil works contracts.
(iii)   Processing of procurement and payments - some components were dropped and
conclusion of some contracts delayed. The civil works contracts were successfully completed.



                                                    - 12 -

The implementation of the other sub-components such as the MTD study, twinning arrangements
and a proposed supplementary credit under the credit were dropped. The manner in which the
Road Inventory and Condition Survey study contract was designed/packaged rendered its
implementation difficult. For instance, the consultants needed equipment in particular the Falling
Weight Deflectometer (FWD), vehicles and drivers. All these were provided under different
contracts. In fact the FWD was not delivered in time and GOK had to hire the equipment for the
Consultants' use. This delayed the completion of this contract.

The decision to package the IDA financed civil works into two manageable contracts (100 km
and 50 Km respectively) instead of a single contract and one, supervision contract, worked out
well. In addition, the strong MORPW civil works supervision team helped in speeding up
implementation and ensuring quality work was done.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Overall the total cost of the project was estimated at US$ 122 million of which US$ 50 million
(SDR 34 million equivalent at negotiations) was IDA Credit. About US$ 42.8 million of the IDA
Credit was to finance civil works, US$ 3.5 million for pilot routine maintenance contracts and the
balance US$ 3.7 million for institutional support. Actual project costs amounted to US$120.26
million with US$ 14.93 million from the Credit and US$ 14.87 million from the Government. The
remaining undisbursed balance of approximately US$ 4-Million (net of foreign rate fluctuations
between the SDR and US$ of about US$ 4 million) under the IDA will be cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely for the following reasons: (i) the enhancement of
institutional capacity and deepening of the reforms in the sector. The institutional support is
already bearing fruits with the Road Works Inspectorate carrying out technical audits of road
works, complemented by financial audits undertaken by other departments of government; (ii)
completion of the road inventory and condition survey that provided vital information to the
MORPW to manage its Highway Maintenance and Management System and improve on
maintenance planning; (iii) establishment of KRB and the Road Maintenance Fund which is a sure
source of funding road maintenance, including maintenance of the roads completed under the
project. In addition, the project sustainability will be reinforced with the planned establishment of
the National Highways Authority to manage a core road network and implementation of
long-term performance based maintenance contracting to be partly supported under the NCTIP.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition measures of this operation to regular operations were in-built into the project at the
design stage. First, the project was implemented by the Roads Department responsible for the
maintenance of the main roads. Second, part of the surplus funds under the project were used for
design and feasibility studies of over 230 Km of road sections along the Northern Corridor for the
follow on project. Finally, the Bank under the NCTIP is supporting the implementation of some of
the transitional activities such as the establishment of the National Highways Authority.




                                                   - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory.
The project components and objectives as originally identified were realistic. There was
Government commitment to rehabilitate the Nairobi-Mombasa road rapidly given the poor
transport conditions on this major road link hence Government agreement to de-link it from the
THSP. In addition, for the civil works contracts, the Government assigned senior engineers with
relevant experience. Satisfactory preparation was maintained with continuous monitoring of the
project activities by Washington based and Country Office staff. Most technical issues were
identified and addressed at appraisal for instance, agreement on the technical designs, adequate
staffing of key staff by consultants and contractors.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated as satisfactory. Although the project had some
initial teething problems. Once the project became effective, implementation improved. The Bank
fielded adequately staffed supervision missions, especially in the Project's early stages.
Throughout, the Bank maintained a substantial level of dialogue, largely due to a team member
being in the field. Bank missions worked closely with MORPW in improving operational
efficiency, visited project sites regularly to review the implementation including environmental
mitigation measures. The informal portfolio reviews, chaired by the Ministry of Finance and
attended by project staff and IDA also had a positive impact on the project implementation.

A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel of reviewers carried out a Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA) during FY03. Supervision was rated as satisfactory overall for all categories.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance during project preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The
designs were undertaken by the MORPW's Roads Department and reviewed by an independent
consultant. Apart from the initial delays in finalising the design by the MORPW and preparing the
Strategic Plan, the Government diligently undertook these activities. The Government cooperated
fully with the Bank in evaluation of civil works bids and selection of the contractor. Finally, very
competitive bids were received.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. Key policy decisions
were implemented including as indicated under 4.2 (major developments) above. These initiatives
helped the Government not only to hold the road network during a period of dwindling external
funding to the sector but also reduced the rate at which the road network would otherwise have
deteriorated. Government agreement under the NCTIP to establish a National Highways
Authority to manage a core road network will support the consolidation of these benefits.


                                                   - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The civil works contracts were not only successfully completed on time and within the budget but
also of good quality, a departure from the past in Kenya's road sector. Reacting to this, at the
official launch of the completed works by the President of Kenya, the then Country Director said:
"In spite of the delay in the start up of the works, we would like to commend the MORPW, Roads
Department in particular, the Contractor, Consulting Engineer for the good quality
workmanship and speedy implementation of this project. It is remarkable that the reconstruction
of this 150 Km section of this key transport corridor... is an example of professional teamwork
that one would like to see permeating the sector". The decision to have two contracts, increased
competition also fastens implementation. The performance of the implementing agency is rated
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Policy reforms attached to an important project: The decision by the Bank and the EU to assist
the Government in rehabilitating and strengthening the Nairobi-Mombasa road as a stand-alone
project but within the framework of policy and institutional reform, and development of road
sector strategy was critical for the accomplishment of some difficult policy reform measures that
were needed to establish an efficient and sustainable rehabilitation and maintenance program for
Kenya's road network. The issues of institutional and financial reform, staff reduction and
increased use of private contractors were difficult to resolve yet key to mitigate against future
recurrence of financial problems that contributed to the poor state of the road network. Bank
support was critical for success of the reform program.

In retrospect, the Bank's choice of the option of including institutional, policy and road
maintenance financing reform was a sound one. The THSP did not take off due to
macroeconomic concerns including poor economic governance, malfunctioning of public
institutions, fiscal and monetary indiscipline, poor public expenditure management and
unprecedented developments in the aviation sector. Had the reform agenda been excluded under
the project, perhaps the positive institutional and policy reform developments recorded so far may
not have occurred at this point in time. Therefore a critical assessment of the outcomes (and what
is at risk) of possible choices is key before deciding to support or not a particular project.

Furthermore, though the magnitude of the support under this project was comparatively modest in
the context of the Kenya's road sector needs, the poor state of this key transport corridor (more
or less in an emergency situation) solicited strong Government's commitment to implement the
project. This provided an opportunity to jointly implement some critical institutional/policy
changes recognised as important to address underlying fundamental recurring problems of the
sector. In this case, was advisable to reach agreement and commitment with the Borrower on
upfront irreversible actions as the overall macro-economic history manifested weak commitment
to reform. The experience for this case is that, (i) Borrowers seem to exhibit strong incentives to
implement policy reforms associated with key projects, and (ii) confronted with limited choices
and scope for possible assistance, Borrowers tend to make some prudent sustainable decisions.



                                                 - 15 -

  The introduction of the fuel levy and increased domestic road maintenance funding during a
  period of declining external funding to the roads sector attests to this.

  Civil Service Project Management Capacity: The project was implemented by MORPW staff and
  project activities integrated within the ministry. The implementation lesson indicate that there are
  strong professional skills within the road sector to design and manage projects provided that the
  administrative framework supported with effective leadership is in place in which staff would
  operate. For example, the experience with the effective implementation of civil works contracts
  sharply contrasts with that of the studies for which the team was not fully empowered.

  Technical: Packaging of contracts should take into account the follow on implementation realities
  and practicability of ability to effectively deliver a particular task. For instance, undertaking the
  road inventory and condition survey, the consultants were depended on the successful
  performance of other parties, supplier of vital equipment, vehicles and staff all under separate
  contracts. This did not work out well.

  Financial Management: There is need to include a dedicated financial management function
  within the project technical team that will be responsible for funds flow, accounting and reporting.
  Payment processing procedures should be simplified and separated from supervisory and
  monitoring functions. Commitment to timely provision of counterpart funding should be
  monitored during quarterly FMR reviews and timely corrective action taken.

  9. Partner Comments

  (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                         Comments from Ministry of Roads & Public Works

1.        Development Of Project Objective

        Development of Project objective was well designed. Due consideration was given to the
        state for infrastructure and those factors affecting it.

2.        Project Objectives And Achivement

        Project objectives were achieved satisfactory taking into consideration the outputs:

(i)       Civil Works
                The section of the road between Mtito Andei ­ Bachuma Gate was completed in
                time and at budget. It has hereby reduced travel time as well as vehicle operating
                cost drastically. Expansion bridges improved road safety along the road.

(ii)      Design studies for other section of the road were completed in time. This enabled the
subsequent
          Northern Corridor Transport Improvement Project (NCTIP) to take off smoothly.

(iii)     Training
                Many staff gained knowledge on various training courses financed by the Bank.



                                                    - 16 -

             These were particularly in the areas of Procurement Finance, Road Maintenance and
             Project Management. However the training programme and courses were not well
             defined by both parties concerned

(iv)   Institutional Development
             The institutional reform resulted into establishment of Fuel Levy Fund (FLF), Kenya
             Roads Board (KRB) and Road Works Inspectorate (RWI), thereby ensuring that
             Ministry of Roads and Public Works (MOR&PW) have sustainable source of funds
             for Road Maintenance with sound management. Establishment of RWI not only
             ensured technical audit of fuel heavy funded projects but also other development
             funded projects. The funds being generated through FLF is substantial US$ 110
             million.

             These developments are not only sustainable but are irreversible given the
             government commitment.

(v)    Road Inventory Study
             This has enabled Ministry of Roads and Public Works to have road inventory
             together with relevant road inventory Maps which will go along way in assisting in
             planning development and maintenance of road network in the republic. However
             there is a need for a follow-on project to ensure sustainability

3.     Supervision

     Supervision by World Bank Team, both from Washington and Country Office attributed
     greatly towards the success of this project. The supervision was regular, focused, inclusive
     and proactive throughout the implementation of the project. The Team connected well with
     their counterparts from MOR&PW. Technical decisions regarding the project were made
     with due consultations. The MOR&PW Team supervising civil works were given good
     support by their superiors, such that decisions both technical and administrative could be
     made in timely manner.

4.     Factors Affecting The Implementation

     (i)       Procurement

             Procurement arrangement for Road Inventory studies was not properly designed as
             services, vehicles and other equipment were procured under different contracts. This
             affected negatively the output of this study. Procurement procedures were also
             partly to blame for the cancellation of Twinning Arrangement and Mechanical and
             Transport Department (MT) strategic option study.

     (ii)      Counterpart Funding

             During the execution of Civil Works Exchequer Release was not enough causing
             some payments to the Contractor to delay. This resulted into substantially claim on



                                               - 17 -

                 Interest on delayed payments as well as partial suspension of the Works. Through
                 the effect of suspension on the overall progress of the Works was minimal.

        (iii)      Implementation arrangements

                 From the beginning of the project right up to the near end of the project, there was
                 no specific project team responsible for overall coordination thereby impeding
                 Implementation. It is important that at the designing stage, coordination of
                 implementation of such project be properly defined.

5.        Lesson Learnt

(i)       Communication through dialogue and discussion between Bank Team and Implementing
Agency Team is very necessary for smooth implementation of the Project.

(ii)      There is a need for a specific Team responsible for overall coordination of the Project.

(iii)     Given the problems encountered in Road Inventory Study the Packaging of a Project need
to be simple with no ambiguity and duplication. Consultant given the services should be responsible
for all goods and equipment required to execute the job.

(iv)      Procurement procedures need to be simplified and understood thoroughly by both parties.

(v)       Flexibility on the side of Bank and Implementing Agencies without compromising the
project objectives and quality is necessary.

6.        Overall Assessment

        The Project was successful and there was a lot of lessons learnt which will benefit the
        subsequent project.

  (b) Cofinanciers:


  (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


  10. Additional Information




                                                  - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Eliminating major constraint to Kenya's     Construction works completed on time and         Construction works completed on time and
production by increasing pavement width on     reduced travel time reduced by about 40%         reduced travel time reduced by about 40%
main link between Nairobi and the port of
Mombasa to 7 meters and reducing road
roughness to 2200mm/km with consequent
reduction in vehicle operating costs.
2. Safegarding the investment in the paved     Piloting was dropped. GOK instead adopted        Piloting was dropped. GOK instead adopted
road network by the contracting of routine     the principle                                    the principle
road maintenance to the private sector.
3. Improved accountability within the Ministry RWI established and fully operational.           RWI established and fully operational.
of Public Works and Housing by the             Undertakes technical audits and enhanced         Undertakes technical audits and enhanced
introduction of performance auditing.          accountablility                                  accountablility
Progressive increase in road maintenance       Road Maintenance Fund established and            Road Maintenance Fund established and
funding to achieve the level required for a    receives Ksh. 9 billion annually from fuel levy. receives Ksh. 9 billion annually from fuel levy.
sustainable road sector over the               Amount exceed the agreed levels at appraisal Amount exceed the agreed levels at appraisal
implementation of the project


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei Road:               Construction works on-going under EU             On-going
Reconstruction along its existing alignment,   funding
& widening of the road to 7 meters, with 2
meter sealed shoulders
Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road: widening Successfully completed on time and within             Achieved satisfactory
of the road to 7 meters, with 2 meter sealed   the budget. Savings used to widen four
shoulders                                      bridges and repair the road through Voi town
                                               (9 km)
Establishment of Road Works Inspectorate       Established and fully operational                Fully operational
(RWI)


1End of project




                                                                  - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
                Component                     Estimate       Estimate*          of
                                            US$ million     US$ million     Appraisal
    Reconstruction/strengthening of
A.  Nairobi-Mombasa Road
       Civil Works:
                   Km 103 - 238 (EU financed)** 45.9           61.61         134.2%
                   Km 238 - 393 (IDA financed) 41.1            42.64         103.7%
       Supervision:
                   Km 103 - 238 (EU financed)** 2.0             1.85          92.5%
                   Km 238 - 393 (IDA financed)   2.6            1.64          63.1%
    Sub-Total Nairobi-Mombasa Road               91.6         107.74         117.6%
B. Road Maintenance Strengthening                               7.26
       Pilot Maintenance Contracts               5.1            0.00          0.0%
       Structured Learning                       0.4            0.00          0.0%
  Sub-Total Maintenance Strengthening            5.5            7.26         132.0%
C. Institutional Support
       Road Works Inspectorate                   0.1            0.31         312.0%
       Other Institutional Support               3.2            4.94         154.5%
     Sub-Total Institutional Support             3.3            5.26         159.2%
          TOTAL BASE COST                       100.4         120.26         119.8%
    Physical Contingencies                       9.2
    Price Contingencies                          12.4
  TOTAL COST (net of taxes and duties)          122.0         120.26          98.6%
Note: Taxes and duties were estimated at US$10.2 million at appraisal
*   Including contingencies
** Contract Amounts.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category         ICB          NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                        50.00         6.20            0.00           56.50       112.70
                               (39.50)        (3.50)         (0.00)          (0.00)      (43.00)
2. Goods                         0.00         0.00            0.40           0.00         0.40
                                (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.40)          (0.00)      (0.40)
3. Services                      0.00         0.00            5.30           2.30         7.60
Consulting Services             (0.00)        (0.00)         (5.30)          (0.00)      (5.30)
4. Training                      0.00         0.00            0.30           0.00         0.30
                                (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.30)          (0.00)      (0.30)



                                           - 20 -

   5. Studies                               0.00               0.00               0.40             0.00              0.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (0.40)
   6. Repayment of PPF                      0.00               0.00               0.60             0.00              0.60
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.60)           (0.00)             (0.60)
       Total                                50.00              6.20               7.00             58.80            122.00
                                           (39.50)            (3.50)             (7.00)           (0.00)            (50.00)


   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 42.64              0.00              0.00             68.87            111.51
                                           (35.03)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (35.03)
   2. Goods                                 0.03               0.19              0.00             0.00              0.22
                                           (0.03)             (0.19)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.22)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              4.57             1.85              6.42
   Consulting Services                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.57)            (0.00)           (4.57)
   4. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.08             0.00              0.08
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
   5. Studies                               0.00               0.00              1.91             0.00              1.91
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.91)            (0.00)           (1.91)
   6. Repayment of PPF                      0.00               0.00              0.12             0.00              0.12
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.12)            (0.00)           (0.12)
       Total                                42.67              0.19              6.68             70.72            120.26
                                           (35.06)            (0.19)            (6.68)            (0.00)           (41.93)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Reconstruction/strengtheni     42.80        10.00        58.80       36.67         7.61      63.46       85.7      76.1    107.9
ng Nairobi-Mombasa Road
Road Maintenance                3.50         3.20         0.00        0.00         7.26       0.00        0.0     226.9      0.0
Strengthening
Institutional Support           3.70         0.00         0.00        5.26         0.00       0.00       142.2     0.0       0.0




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project comprised of four main components: (a) reconstruction/strengthening of the
Nairobi-Mombasa road; (b) strengthening the monitoring and control of road maintenance
activities - pilot routine maintenance contracts; (c) encouragement of private sector
involvement in the maintenance of infrastructure. Of these, the only civil works component
was the reconstruction/strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa road, which forms part of the
Trans Africa Highway and serves not only Kenya but also landlocked countries like Uganda,
Rwanda, Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo and the Southern Sudan.

Construction of the IDA financed section, Bachuma Gate ­ Mtito Andei (150 Km) commenced in
1997 and was completed in 2001. Construction of the EU funded section Km 103 - 238 (Sultan
Hamud - Mtito Andei) started in April 2003 and about 30 km had been constructed and handed
over to the Government at the time of preparation of this ICR.

The economic analysis for this ICR focuses on the civil works for the reconstruction/
strengthening of the IDA financed section, Bachuma Gate ­ Mtito Andei (150 Km). Under the
project, the road was widened to accommodate a 7.30m wide carriageway with 2.00m wide
sealed shoulders. The new pavement was designed and constructed to carry up to 40 million
cumulative standard axles over the 15 years design period. The works further included the
construction of a new highway bridge over Tsavo River, pedestrian bridge over Voi River,
construction of new culverts and the general improvement of the drainage facilities.

This analysis considers a case of improved road over a time period of 15years and thus defines the
Base Case as the scenario in which the following intervention measures shall be taken on the road
project:

Full Maintenance on the project road, which will consist of:

i)      Edge Break area 10m2/km
ii)     Ensure there are no potholes, i.e. where every pothole that may appear shall be repaired
iii)    Do a Crack Seal once the road has 15% cracks,
iv)     Carry out Routine maintenance once every year.

These assumptions were derived from the prevailing road condition as per the results of a Road
Inventory and condition survey that was carried out on the road in the year 2003. The survey
revealed the following:

                           Number of Potholes            0
                              Crack Area                 0
                               Ravel Area                0
                               Bleed Area                0
                            Edge break Area              0
                           Average Rut Depth             0
                           Centerline Condition         Good
                           Edge line Condition          Good
                           Shoulder Condition           Good



                                                - 22 -

                The current Average IRI for the road project is

               Mtito Andei - Voi                1.855
               Voi ­ Bachuma Gate               1.691

Approach to Economic Analysis of the Project

The potential economic benefits of rehabilitation and upgrading the road project derive from:

§      Savings in vehicle operating cost
§      Savings in maintenance expenditures
§      Timesavings to passengers and freight
§      Reduction in the number and severity of accidents
§      Residual value of the road structure at the end of the evaluation period
§      Induced economic development, such as industrial, agricultural or tourist activities that
were previously constrained by poor access.
§      Social benefits arising from the increased mobility of the population and improved
accessibility to health, education and other services.

The Economic Analysis of the project has been performed using HDM 4 model and the
maintenance costs derived for input into the HDM Model. The costs include routine maintenance,
patching, resealing, overlay and reconstruction. These costs were computed using guidelines from
the Ministry's1999 contract rates. The computed costs are shown in the table below:

Operation                    Units              Economic              Financial
                                                Cost $                Cost $
                Reconstr     Km                 253,200               261,000
                uction
Overlay                      m2                 9.59                  11.84
Resealing                    m2                1.73                   2.13
Drainage Maintenance         Km                223.82                 276.32
Edge Repair                  m2                 7.53                  9.30
Patching                     m2                 15.07                 18.61
Crack sealing               m2                  1.15                  1.42
Routine Maintenance         Km/year             895                   1,105

Projected Savings in Accident Costs

Making an estimate of potential accident savings is shadowed with some difficulties, hence the
reference to international experience and reports. The Manual on Road Project Appraisal (ODA)
reports that construction of a dual carriageway carrying upto 20,000 vpd can reduce all injury
accidents by up to 50% and fatal and serious accidents by about 25%. Even an increase in the
width from 5 to 7m might reduce accidents rate by 405. The Ministry's Manual on accident
prevention using low cost engineering countermeasures (1990) demonstrates that widening a



                                                - 23 -

carriageway from 6.5m without shoulders to 7m with shoulders can reduce accidents by 28-40%
depending on other environmental factors.

Traffic Data

For the purpose of this evaluation, the traffic data was taken from the traffic database carried out
by consultant, M/s BKS on the road in the year 2001. The traffic data used in the analysis is as
follows

 Road Section 2001 ADT Car                 Matatus     LGoods      MGoods    HGoods      Buses
Mtito Andei - Voi 1890         16.2%       8.4%        13.8%       8.8%      47.2%       5.7%

Voi - Bachuma 2250             13.6%       12.7%       13.6%       8.0%      45.2%       7.0%
Gate

Based on the foregoing methodology and assumptions, the estimated net present value and
internal rates of return are as follows: FYRR 16.86%; NPV US$ 48.9 million; and ERR 28.7%. A
full cost-benefit analysis of the capital investment input in the improvement of the Mtito Andei -
Bachuma Gate section was undertaken at appraisal using HDMIII and the results of the analysis
were as follows: FYRR 20.6 %, NPV US$ 138.2 million, and ERR 43.9 %. The results imply that
the project was economically viable both at appraisal and after implementation. The lower result
of ERR after improvement, may be explained by the fact that the actual capital costs of Ksh. 3.04
million (equivalent to US$ 54.2 million @ US$ 1 = 56.1) at completion is 50 % higher than the
estimated cost of Ksh. 1.975 million (equivalent to US$ 35.9 million @ US$ 1 = 55 Ksh) assumed
at appraisal. Further, actual capital expenditures were incurred from 1997 to 2001 compared to
1996 to 1998 envisaged at appraisal.




                                                 - 24 -

The data used in the analysis is replicated in Table 3.1 below.

ECONOMICEVALUATION:MTITOANDEI-BACHUMAGATE

                                     EconomicCosts:Kshmillion
Year           Project    CostsWithoutProject                     CostswithProject
               Capital    Road       Vehicle    Journey  Total    Road        Vehicle   Journey Total    NET
               Costs      Maintenance Operation Time              Maintenance Operation Time             ECONOMIC
                                                                                                         BENEFITS
    1996   1996     13.608                                                                                  -13.608
    1997   1997    246.446                                                                                 -246.446
    1998   1998    727.547                                                                                 -727.547
    1999   1999   1309.342                                                                                -1309.342
    2000   2000    726.941                                                                                 -726.941
    2001   2001                11.572 5359.423 118.679    5489.674      10.402 4298.424   97.490 4406.316  1083.358
    2002   2002                10.410 5402.475 120.859    5533.744      10.402 4301.550   97.508 4409.460  1124.284
    2003   2003                10.402 5342.73 117.837     5470.969      10.402 4303.374   97.517 4411.293  1059.676
    2004   2004                11.580 5374.904 119.465    5505.949      10.402 4305.430   97.529 4413.361  1092.588
    2005   2005                40.410 5417.295 121.617    5579.322      10.402 4307.872   97.541 4415.815  1163.507
    2006   2006                10.402 5356.068 118.509    5484.979      10.402 4310.904   97.555 4418.861  1066.118
    2007   2007                11.587 5387.665 120.114    5519.366      10.402 4315.104   97.570 4423.076  1096.290
    2008   2008                10.410 5429.481 122.241    5562.132      10.402 4321.020   97.588 4429.010  1133.122
    2009   2009                11.047 5367.012 119.064    5497.123      10.402 4329.830   97.606 4437.838  1059.285
    2010   2010                10.948 5398.104 120.647    5529.699      10.402 4343.829   97.629 4451.860  1077.839
    2011   2011                10.410 5439.414 122.752    5572.576      10.402 4367.745   97.660 4475.807  1096.769
    2012   2012                10.402 5375.902 119.516    5505.820      10.402 4403.170   97.700 4511.272   994.548
    2013   2013                11.627 5406.545 121.079    5539.251      10.402 4442.384   97.753 4550.539   988.712
    2014   2014                10.410 5447.404 123.162    5580.976      10.402 4477.433   97.809 4585.644   995.332
    2015   2015                10.402 5383.013 119.879    5513.294      10.402 4513.334   97.822 4621.558   891.736
                  3023.884

                             NPV       IRR
                             12%        %
               Kshmn         2743.75      28.7
               US$mn             48.9




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/93                      4    Transport Economist (TTL); Sr.
              This project was                Financial Analyst; Sr. Railway
              initially a                     Engineer; Port Engineer
              component of the
              Third Highway
              Sector Project

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/20/1994                 4    Sr. Transport Economist
                                              (TTL); Road Engineer;
                                              Road Maintenance
                                              Consultant; Road Design
                                              Consultant
              03/19/1995                 3    Sr. Transport Economist (TTL);
                                              Road Engineer (2)

 Supervision
              10/25/1996                 2    SR. TRANSPORT
                                              ECONOMIST (TTL) (1);
                                              ROAD ENGINEER (1)
              03/08/1997                 4    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                              SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                              ROADS EXPERT (1)
              07/05/1997                 3    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1); RURAL ROADS EXPERT
                                              (1)
              02/23/1998                 3    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST             S               S
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              (1)
              09/20/1998                 4    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT EXPERT
              02/08/1999                 2    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1)
              11/15/1999                 3    SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST             S               S
                                              (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                              (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              (1)
              04/17/2000                 2     ROAD ENGINEER (1);



                                               - 26 -

                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               05/06/2000                    3   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                                 (TTL) (1)
               10/18/2000                    3   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST            S    S
                                                 (TTL) (1); ROAD ENGINEER
                                                 (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               04/24/2001                    2   SR. TRANSPORT ECONOMIST            S    S
                                                 (TTL) (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               04/092002                     3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (TTL)           S    S
                                                 (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                                                 ECONOMIST (1); ROAD
                                                 ENGINEER (1)
               09/30/2002                    3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (TTL)           S    S
                                                 (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                                                 ECONOMIST (1); ROAD
                                                 ENGINEER (1)
               05/30/2003                    3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (TTL)           S    S
                                                 (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
               12/17/2003                    4   OPERATIONS OFFICER (TTL)
                                                 (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                 (1); FINANCIAL
                                                 MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                 (1)

 ICR
               08/16/2004                   7    OP. OFFICER (TTL) (1);
                                                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                                 (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                 (1); TEAM ASSISTANT
                                                 (1); CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   7.5                           20.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       34.9                         130.1
  Supervision                                220.0                         577.2
  ICR
  Total                                      262.4                         727.8
Note: Supervision includes time spent on the preparation of the ICR.




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Pre-Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office reports.
- Appraisdal mission terms of reference, Aide-memoire and Back to Office report.
- Staff Appraisal Report dated November 8, 1995
- Legal Documents and amendments
- Project Status Reports (PSRs)
- Supervision mission Aide-Memoires
- Progress Reports




                                                 - 30 -

- 31 -

