Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13798-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
NAIROBI-MOMBASA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  =   Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$ 1.00      =   K Sh 55.00 (As of October 1995)
K Sh 1.00     =   US$0.02
K Sh 20.00    =   K£ 1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASYCUDA       Automated System for Customs Data
CSE           Chief Superintending Engineer
EARC          East African Railways Corporation
ESA           Equivalent Standard Axle
EU            European Union
GOK           Government of Kenya
HDM           Highway Design Model
HMMS          Highway Maintenance Management System
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
KA            Kenya Airways
KNSL          Kenya National Shipping Line
KPA           Kenya Ports Authority
KR             Kenya Railways Corporation
KWS           Kenya Wildlife Service
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
MOPWH         Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MOTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
MRP           Minor Roads Programme
ODA           Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RARP          Rural Access Roads Programme
RMI           Road Maintenance Initiative
RTIM          Ro:ad Transport Investment Model
RWI           Road Works Inspectorate
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SE            Superintending Engineer
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SSA           Sub-Sahara Africa
SSE           Senior Superintending Engineer
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



KENYA
NAIROBI - MOMBASA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. TRANSPORT SECTOR                                                                                                  1
A. The Kenyan Transport System ................................................1
B. Role of Transport in the Economy ................................................2
C. Transport Infrastructure and Industry ................................................3
Roads and Road Transport ................................................3
Air Transport and Civil Aviation ................................................               3
Ports and Maritime Transport ................................................3
Rail Transport ................................................4
Pipeline ................................................5
Inter-Modal Distribution of Traffic ................................................            6
D. Critical Transport Issues in Kenya ................................................7
E. Bank Strategy ................................................7
Deteriorating Road Conditions ................................................7
Transport Parastatals ................................................8
Competitive External Trade-Transport Sector .......................................8
F. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Kenya Road Sector ....................8
G. Rationale for IDA  Involvement ...............................................                        10
2. THE KENYAN ROAD SECTOR                                                                                          11
A. Present Infrastructure ...............................................                                11
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Kenya June 20 - July 15, 1994. The mission was
led by Mr. Simon Thomas (Senior Transport Economist) and included Mr. C. Hoban (Highway Engineer),
Mr. W. Matthey (Consultant Maintenance Engineer) and Mr. R. Hammond (Consultant Design Engineer).
Mr. B. Becq (AFIEI) was the Lead Advisor and Mr. C. Queiroz (EC31V) was the peer reviewer. Ms. M.C. Li
provided secretarial support. Messrs. S. Weissman and J. Adams are the Division Chief and Director,
respectively for the operation.



Network Size .........................................11
Network Condition .......................................                                                 12
B. Road Transport and Traffic Flows .......................................                                          14
C. The Ministry  of Public Works and  Housing .......................................                                 16
Organization .......................................                                                     16
Activities of the Roads Department .......................................                               16
D. Strategy for the Sector ........................................                                                  17
Maintenance Funding ........................................                                             18
The Roads 2000 Strategy .......................................                                          18
Institutional Strategy ........................................                                          19
Strategic Plan  for the Road  Sector .......................................                             19
3. THE PROJECT                                                                                                                  21
A.  Identification  and Preparation ........................................                                         21
B. Objectives ........................................                                                              21
C. Project Description ........................................                                                     21
Road Inventory ........................................                                                   22
Project Components ........................................                                              23
D. Cost Estimates .......................................                                                           25
E. Financing .......................................                                                                 27
F. Environmental Impact .......................................                                                      27
Environmental Impacts During  Construction ...................................... 27
Environmental Impacts Following  Construction ................................. 28
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                       29
A. Institutional Responsibilities .......................................                                           29
B. Procurement .......................................                                                               30
C. Disbursement .......................................                                                             31
D. Reporting and Auditing .......................................                                                    32
E. Monitoring and Supervision .......................................                                               33



5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                                                             34
A. General .........................................                                      34
B. Traffic Flows: Nairobi - Mombasa Road .........................................          34
C. Economic Analysis .........................................                            35
Introduction .........................................                           35
Economic Analysis: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate .............................. 35
Accident Analysis: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate ............................... 36
Economic Analysis: Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei .............................. 37
Economic Analysis of Other Project Components .............................. 37
Poverty Impact .........................................                          37
D. Project Risks and Sustainability .........................................             38
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                           39
A. Agreements during Negotiations .........................................               39
B. Condition of Effectiveness .........................................                   39
C. Recommendation .........................................                                39
ANNEXES
Annex 1           Routine Maintenance Contracts
Annex 2           Road Works Inspectorate
Annex 3           Supervision Strategy and Staff Input
Annex 4           Summary of Monitoring Indicators for the Project
Annex 5           Previous World Bank Assistance to the Road Sector
Annex 6          Economic Evaluation: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate
Annex 7           Ministry of Public Works and Housing - Proposed Twinning with the
Department of Roads
Annex 8           Letter of Sectoral Policy
Annex 9           Implementation Schedule
Annex 10    Maintenance Levy Fund
Annex 11         Documents in Project File
MAP              IBRD No. 26642






KENYA
NAIROBI - MOMBASA ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    The Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency:         Ministry of Public Works and Housing
Beneficiary:                 Not applicable
Poverty:                     Not applicable
Amount:                      SDR 34.0 million (US$50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:              See Para. 3.17
Net Present Value:           US$138 million at 12% discount rate, ERR 43.9%  (Mtito
Andei - Bachuma Gate Section, 43% of project cost); The
Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei Section is expected to generate
similar economic benefits, see Para. 5.12
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report No. 13798-KE
Map:                         IBRD No. 26642
Project ID                   KE-PA-35691






1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. THE KENYAN TRANSPORT SYSTEM
1.1     Kenya's transport system is characteristic of countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The
infrastructure consists of: a single commercial seaport, at Mombasa; a single-track rail network
consisting of a mainline and a few branch lines; a pipeline connecting the port to the capital,
Nairobi; and a classified road network of approximately 63,000 km which is typical of a SSA
country with Kenya's size, population and income. There are, however, two international airports,
at Nairobi and Mombasa, which reflect the importance of tourism to the economy, and the pipeline
has been extended further inland to both Eldoret and Kisumu. The public sector currently owns
and operates the port, railway, airports, national airline and pipeline, while the private sector
dominates road transport and general aviation. Transport activity is concentrated along the
Northern Corridor which connects Mombasa, Nairobi, and the Ugandan border. This corridor is
both Kenya's primary transport artery and a major sea-access route for the landlocked countries
and regions of East and Central Africa (Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Kivu Province of Zaire, and
Southern Sudan).
1.2    The transport sector has changed very significantly since Independence; most notably with
the development of the road network and the decline in the role of rail transport. A major program
of road investment has expanded the network of paved roads from just over 1,800 km in 1963 to
over 8,600 km and this, combined with the introduction of much heavier commercial vehicles, has
substantially reduced road transport costs. During the mid 1970's, the overall market for rail
transport was reduced by the decline in the volume of Ugandan transit traffic and, in the late
1970's, by the opening of the oil pipeline.
1.3     Rail remains an important mode for long distance freight along Kenya's main transport
corridor. KR operates passenger services from Nairobi to Mombasa, Kisumu and Malaba and
between Voi and Taveta, and between Kisumu and Butere. KR is popularly perceived as having an
important share in the passenger market but its actual role is small. Kenya Airways operates
regular domestic flights from Nairobi to Mombasa, Malindi and Kisumu and a small, independent
company has recently established a limited scheduled service. In addition, Kenya has an active
charter and general aviation sector. Overall, bus and mini-bus (matatu) transport dominate the
fare-paying passenger transport market.
1.4     The Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) is responsible for both ports and marine affairs. There
was no growth in the total tonnage handled at Mombasa, during the 1980's, but the type of cargo
changed significantly. Mombasa port has major importance for the landlocked countries of the
region (Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and the Kivu province of Zaire) but transit traffic only accounts
for about 12 percent of total port traffic.



- 2 -
B. ROLE OF TRANSPORT IN THE ECONOMY
1.5      The transport system is essential for the domestic economy and is also an important
source of foreign exchange; transit traffic probably generates annual earnings of, at least, US$80 -
95 million. Until the mid/late 1980's, transport was not a major constraint to economic growth.
Infrastructure was expanded to meet new demands, for example the construction of the container
facilities at Mombasa and Nairobi, and Kenya enjoyed a higher standard of infrastructure and lower
transport costs than most countries in the region. The road transport industry is competitive and
relatively efficient, and replaced KR as the major long distance transport mode.
1.6      The transport system is now beginning to be perceived as a serious impediment to
economic growth. In the recent private sector assessment1 inadequate road conditions were often
cited as a significant problem. Marketing of highly perishable commodities such as milk, and
vegetables has become a major problem in some areas during the rainy season. The decline in rail
capacity has begun to impede the export of low-value bulk commodities, such as soda ash, which
are highly sensitive to transport costs. Even more critical are, however, the constraints that the
present transport system will impose on the future growth and diversification of production and
exports.
1.7      The prospects for expanding Kenya's traditional exports are limited and future growth
must be largely led by the development of non-traditional exports, particularly manufactures.
Kenya's land transport system is inadequate to support such growth. If Kenya is to succeed in
highly competitive markets, it must have the low-cost, high quality transport access to markets that
its competitors already enjoy. KR should be the main bulk freight transport mode to/from
Mombasa but its capacity has declined, its tariffs have risen and its service is poor. Road transport
is a realistic alternative to rail for most commodities and a more critical constraint is Kenya's
interface with international shipping, Port charges at Mombasa are high, the level of service is low
and the delays to imports, especially containers, are considerable. Just-in-time management and
rapid market response, based on sea transport, are simply not possible with the present transport
system. Air-freight can be a partial substitute, but the costs are high and horticultural products
already fill available export cargo space.
1.8      The pivotal transport position of Kenya within East-Central Africa is threatened by
growing competition from the "Central Corridor" routes radiating from Dar es Salaam. The
preference for Dar es Salaam results partly from lower port tariffs but more significant are the less
costly and cumbersome transit procedures. Kenya still retains significant cost advantages for some
transit traffic but these will be increasingly eroded by the on-going rehabilitation of Tanzania's
infrastructure.
Tapping Kenya's Potential: A Private Sector Development Strategy, 1993



- 3 -
C. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE AND INDUSTRY
Roads and Road Transport
1.9     Roads and road transport are crucial to land transport, and thus social and economic
development, in Kenya:
*  Trucks account for almost 100 percent of short distance collection/delivery transport.
*  In recent years, road transport has become the primary mode for long distance freight
transport.
*  Public passenger transport is dominated by bus and matatu.
The road sector is Kenya's largest investment and is described in detail in Section II.
Air Transport and Civil Aviation
1.10    Air transport has great economic importance for Kenya, serving both the tourist and
horticultural sectors. The role of Nairobi as a regional passenger hub declined in the 1980's but
tourism substantially increased Kenyan traffic. Air freight roughly doubled during the 1980's to
over 55,000 tonnes, with exports accounting for over 70 percent of the total tonnage. Mombasa
handles some scheduled international passenger flights as well as tourist charter flights and a major
investment project is underway. There are also scheduled domestic flights to airports at Kisumu
and Malindi.
1.11    Kenya is served by many of the major international airlines and Kenya Airways (KA)
faces intense competition on the more profitable market segments. KA faces little competition on
domestic routes although its monopoly has been removed. KA is being restructured, with the
assistance of a management contract, prior to privatization which is expected in 1996.
Ports and Maritime Transport
1.12    Mombasa is Kenya's only international seaport although there are rudimentary port
facilities at Kilifi, Lamu, Malindi, and Shimoni. Mombasa has 16 deep water general cargo and
container berths, oil tankers are handled at the Kipevu and Shimanzi terminals and there are
privately operated bulk handling facilities for coal, clinker and cement at Mbaraki and English
Point. The three berth container terminal was developed during the early 1980's and should have
an annual capacity of, at least, 250,000 TEU. With the containerization of general cargo traffic,
Mombasa should have sufficient berth and storage capacity for several years. The total tonnage of
traffic handled at Mombasa has shown little consistent growth for a number of years, but there have
been significant changes in the composition of the cargo handled as shown in Table 1. 1. The
recent growth in traffic, during a period of slow growth/stagnation in the Kenyan economy, has
resulted from the bulk import of food aid for the region.



- 4 -
Table I.1: Mombasa Port Traffic 1980-92
(million tonnes)
Dry Cargo     Bulk Oils       Total       Containers
000' TEU
1980          3.4           4.1           7.5            30
1984          3.5           3.0           6.5           103
1988          3.5           3.2           6.7           111
1990          4.1           3.4           7.5           136
1992          4.5         _ 3.4           7.9           135
Source: KPA Annual Bulletin of Statistics
1.13    While the port of Mombasa has the facilities to handle present and future traffic,
operational problems generate a level of port service which is a major constraint to the
development and diversification of the Kenyan economy. Inadequate performance results from:
poor equipment availability and reliability; inadequate maintenance of the port infrastructure; lack
of management systems; inadequately motivated management and workers; and, until recently, the
shortage of foreign exchange to purchase spare parts. The Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) which
manages Mombasa Port is designated as one of the five 'Strategic Parastatals" which are to be
immediately restructured (Para. 1.27). The KPA also owns and operates the rail-served inland
container depots (ICD) at Nairobi and Kisumu and is completing a further ICD at Eldoret.
Containers can be consigned to these ICDs and moved by rail without customs documentation. All
containers moved by road have to be either cleared at Mombasa or have to travel under specific
custom bonds. In addition, many transit containers are classified as 'sensitive' when moved by
road and are supposed to travel in convoy, under police escort.
1.14    Mombasa is served by both Conference and independent liner services such as CMB and
Messina. The Kenya National Shipping Line (KPA is the major shareholder) was established in
1991. KNSL has no vessels and charters container slots on Conference services; the company is
not profitable. There is still some dhow traffic along the coast and to/from the Gulf but the volume
of cargo carried is insignificant in comparison to conventional shipping. The dhow traffic is
handled at the 'old port' in Mombasa town.
Rail Transport
1.15    Kenya Railways Corporation (KR) is a wholly government owned parastatal. Until the
early 1970's, the railway dominated long-distance freight transport along the main transport routes:
Mombasa - Nairobi - Malaba, and Nakuru - Kisumu. Rail, for example, carried over 95 percent of
Uganda's 1.5 million tonnes of external trade in 1971. During the 1970's, with the increasing
problems within EARC and Uganda, the railway lost a major part of the transit market to road but
was still able to increase its domestic freight traffic, despite the opening of the Mombasa-Nairobi
pipeline. KR's total freight traffic increased until the early 1980's but then, with increasing
problems of locomotive availability and reliability and intense competition from road transport, a
decline started which has continued with little interruption, Table 1.2.



- 5 -
Table 1.2: Kenya Railways Traffic
(million)
____________       Tonnes             Tonne-kms            Passengers
1980             4.3                  2300                 2.6
1984              3.6                 2000                 1.7
1988              3.1                 1700                 3.9
1990              3.5                 2000                 3.0
1992              3.1                 1800                 2.6
1993             2.5                  1400                 2.4
Source: KR
1.16    The consequent increase in heavily overloaded trucks has had a severe impact on Kenya's
road network which was constructed on the basis that long distance freight would be carried by
rail. If the locomotive constraint was removed, KR could increase its freight traffic to about 4
million tonnes, attracting about 1 million tonnes from the Nairobi-Mombasa road. KR's share of
the freight market is capacity rather than demand constrained.
1.17    Donor assistance has helped KR to become more commercial and to achieve tariff
autonomy but has had little impact on physical performance. The need for fundamental change is
evident and restructuring is being assisted by the Parastatal Reform and Privatization Project Cr.
2440-KE. KR has leased mainline locomotives from South Africa to alleviate the motive power
shortage and is planning to contract out locomotive maintenance to specialist suppliers. While the
recent performance of KR has been bleak, the experience has modified management attitudes and
increased acceptance of the need for radical change. Successful restructuring should enable KR to
recapture freight traffic but a very substantial volume of road freight will remain.
1.18    While KR is primarily a freight railway, it does also provide passenger services: daily
services from Nairobi to Kisumu and Mombasa, two services a week to Malaba and a weekly
international service to Kampala, services along the Taveta and Butere branch lines and a
rudimentary commuter service in Nairobi. KR's share of the passenger market is, however, very
small and the service is very unprofitable. Under the parastatal reform program Government will
either allow KR to close these services or provide specific compensation.
Pipeline
1.19    The state-owned Kenya Pipeline Company operates the pipelines. The extensions to
Eldoret and Kisumu are now fully operational and there should be a significant reduction in road
and rail freight traffic on the transport corridors to the west of Nairobi. The extension of the
pipeline to Kampala has also been discussed with Uganda. The Mombasa-Nairobi section of the
pipeline was opened in the late 1970's and its rehabilitation is now required. The extensions of the
pipeline have helped to persuade the Government to enforce the volumetric limits on oil tankers
which were originally gazetted in 1991. The pipeline extensions will only eliminate some of the
overloading problem as fuel oil and bitumen cannot be transported through the pipeline. KR
intends, however, t, convert its light oil tanker wagons to handle heavy oils.



- 6-
Inter-Modal Distribution of Traffic
1.20    Along most of the Northern Transport Corridor, road and rail run alongside. The
Corridor is, however, a single route only between Mombasa and Nakuru, thereafter the corridor
bifurcates with one branch running to the Ugandan Border at Malaba and the other running to
Kisumu. At Kisumu the road/rail routes diverge: The road route continues to the Ugandan border
at Busia, while rail wagons cross Lake Victoria by ferry. During the 1980's, a third road route
developed with transit vehicles, for Rwanda and Burundi, crossing into Tanzania at Isebania.
1.21    Table I.3 provides indicative estimates of long distance freight along the Corridor.
Overall, trucks carry about twice the volume of rail freight.
Table 1.3: Transport Corridor - Freight Flows
(million tonnes)
Rail         Road          Pipeline
Mombasa - Nairobi                2.0           3.7            1.5
Nairobi - Eldoret                1.1           2.2            NA
Nairobi - Kisumu                 0.5           1.6            NA
Source: KR, MOWPH and mission estimates
1.22     Data on passenger movements along the Corridor are limited. A recent study of KR's
passenger services estimated the passenger transport capacities on the Nairobi-Mombasa route
shown in Table 1.4.
Table I.4: Public Passenger Transport Capacity: Nairobi-Mombasa
(seats per day)
First Class'   Second Class    Economy        Total
Rail              100           170            240            510
Air               670                      __l_|__            670
Bus                             120          2000            2120
Total             770           290          2240            3300
Source: KR Passenger Services Study, SwedeRail
1.23    Government regulation of the transport sector is minimal and market forces are the basis
for traffic allocation (the pipeline had a monopoly, prior to liberalization in 1994). The distribution
of traffic is distorted, however, by KR's non-commercial policies; operating unprofitable passenger
services while turning away profitable freight traffic. Efficient traffic allocation in a competitive
environment depends on efficient taxation/cost recovery within the sector. Road-user charges,
designed to cover attributable road damage costs, were introduced in the early 1980's but they have
not been systematically updated. Since the last major study of transport taxation, road tolls were
introduced and the tax exemption of KR removed. In July 1994, the domestic road tolls were
replaced by a road maintenance levy on the pump price of gasoline and diesel. With these changes,
2   The passenger classes reflect levels of quality/service and not necessarily tariff categories



it is no longer certain whether taxation in the sector promotes "fair" competition. The issue of
transport taxation will be studied under the proposed Third Highway Sector Project.
D. CRITICAL TRANSPORT ISSUES IN KENYA
1.24    Transport conditions are deteriorating and transport system is increasingly a major
constraint to economic and social development in Kenya. There are three critical issues:
(i)    Deteriorating road conditions: The road system is Kenya's largest investment and,
if valued on a quasi-commercial basis, a declining asset. The Ministry of Public
Works and Housing has attempted to maintain the network but preference for new
construction, inadequate budgetary allocations, and inappropriate employment
policies have resulted in insufficient routine and periodic maintenance. Conditions
are discussed in detail in Section II.
(ii)   Inadequately performing parastatals: Both KR and KPA provide low quality
service at unnecessarily high cost. KPA generates a considerable cash surplus
through high tariffs rather than high productivity. KR has conmnercial autonomy
but its rates are limited by competition from road transport. Although rates have
increased and expenditure has been held below the rate of inflation, KR's financial
position has deteriorated and it no longer services its debts or adequately maintains
its assets. The poor financial position of KR is the inevitable consequence of the
decline in traffic. KA's financial situation was also poor and a major financial
restructuring was undertaken, as a necessary condition for privatization.
(iii)   Uncompetitive external trade-transport system: The inadequate service of KPA and
KR is exacerbated by complex customs procedures. It takes 27 separate
operations, checks and processes to clear an import consignment through Customs.
Customs procedures combine with port and land transport problems to produce
average container delays at Mombasa of about 20 days. The Government is taking
steps to restructure all three organizations.
E. BANK STRATEGY
1.25    The Bank has been assisting the transport sector since before Independence. The critical
issues are being addressed through policy dialogue, under the Policy Framework Paper, and
proposed lending operations.
Deteriorating Road Conditions
1.26    The Bank's on-going and proposed assistance to the inter-urban and rural road sectors is
discussed in Sections II and III, and the lessons of recent involvement in the sector are summarized
later in this Section (Paras. 1.30 - 1.33). The inadequate level of routine and periodic maintenance
described in Section II applies equally to urban roads. In Nairobi, traffic congestion exacerbates
the situation. In response to these urban transport problems, the Ministry of Local Government



- 8 -
and IDA are preparing a large Urban Transport Project which will rehabilitate key road networks
in 26 urban areas, strengthen the very weak (or non-existent) institutional capacity for road
maintenance, and address traffic congestion in Nairobi.
Transport Parastatals
1.27    The radical transformation of the public sector is central to the Bank's macro-economic
and sector policies in Kenya. The size, inefficiency and financial performance of the public sector
have been increasingly recognized as major causes of Kenya's low economic growth in recent
years. The Government has launched the comprehensive reform program which was outlined in
the Policy Paper on Public Enterprises and Privatization, July 1, 1993. The reforms will
rationalize public enterprise operations, reduce public subsidies, improve governance and the
regulatory environment, and remove preferential treatment. Strategic enterprises will be
restructured, while the remaining 207 non-strategic enterprises will be either privatized or
liquidated.
1.28    The Bank is supporting reform through the Parastatal Reform and Privatization TA
Project (Cr. 2440-KE). The importance attached to the policies and actions agreed within this
project are reflected in key agreements in the PFP. Technical assistance is being provided under
the project to assist with the implementation of major restructuring plans for five key strategic
parastatals, including KR and KPA. The crucial importance of major improvement to operational
efficiency at Mombasa Port has been recognized by GOK. The modalities for the management of
the container terminal by a major international operator are now being explored. KA is not
considered a strategic parastatal and will be privatized.
Competitive External Trade-Transport Sector
1.29    IDA has assisted Kenya with the development of its external trade sector through policy
dialogue and the Export Development Credit (Cr. 2197-KE) which funded the infrastructure for the
export processing zone at Athi River, near Nairobi. Limited specific assistance has, so far, been
given to creating efficient import/export trade-transport systems although this was the primary
objective of the proposed Transport Corridor Project which included port, rail and customs'
components. Customs reform and the improvement of customs procedures are important features
of the PFP agreements and some action is being taken on those aspects which impact on
transport/trade efficiency. An independent assessment, by Bank-funded consultants, was made of
the on-going Customs computerization program and this recommended that the program be
abandoned and the ASYCUDA system introduced. The Cross Border Initiative and the Great
Lakes Corridor Study will provide the opportunity for further dialogue.
F. PREvious BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT IN THE KENYA ROAD SECTOR
1.30    Since 1960, the Bank group has undertaken a total of 12 projects in the Kenya Road
Sector (Annex 5). During the 1960's and 1970's IDA supported Government objectives in the
road sector through a variety of project designs:
Creation of a well integrated network of national and regional roads (First and Second
Highway Projects).



- 9 -
*  Rural roads for specific agricultural programs (Agricultural Development, Tea Roads,
Sugar Roads and Rural Access Roads Projects).
*  Projects combining main road construction with rural road development (Third, Fourth
and Fifth Highway Projects).
•  The Highway Maintenance Project was designed to strengthen the maintenance
organization and help finance the implementation of a large maintenance program.
According to the Project Completion Reports, these projects were, on the whole, completed
satisfactorily and their principal objectives - reduced vehicle operating costs and improved rural
accessibility - were achieved, at least, in the short term. The projects experienced implementation
delays, cost overruns and their economic returns were generally below the appraisal estimates.
1.31    During the 1970's the agencies responsible for the road sector were strengthened, the
Roads Department had demonstrated its capacity and the Government had established appropriate
objectives and policies for the sector under the Fourth Transport Plan. The Bank therefore agreed
to a Highway Sector Project to support the implementation of the Government's Highway Sector
Plan. The slower than anticipated economic growth during the plan period resulted in lower than
agreed Government funding for maintenance and construction. There were even greater shortfalls
in the physical implementation of the plan, especially within the maintenance program. It was
concluded, however, that the experience did not invalidate the sector lending approach - sector
policies and objectives were sound, only their implementation required improvement. The sector
lending approach was consequently continued.
1.32    The Second Highway Sector Project was prepared in 1984 with the objective of helping
to finance the last four years of the Government's Fifth Highway Sector Plan (FY 1984-1988). The
project's estimated cost totaled US$152.2 million and to be funded by a US$50 million IBRD loan
(LN. 2409-KE), a SDR 37.8 million IDA credit (CR. SF17-KE) and the equivalent of US$53.7
million in local funding. The Bank Group's participation in the funding of the Plan was expected to
reseal 2,800 km, regravel 1,500 km, strengthen 220 km and pave 245 km. In addition, assistance
was to be provided for road maintenance equipment, road building materials, and consultants'
services to assist the Ministry in improving highway and maintenance planning. The Project
became effective on 26 September 1986, but implementation was very slow mainly as the result of
the Government's inability to allocate sufficient counterpart funding to allow the Roads Department
to utilize the Bank Group's funds. In August 1987, the Government proposed a reduction in the
scope of the works and a reduction in the level of required counterpart funding. A substantial
revision of the Project was agreed and the loan component (LN 2409-KE) was reduced to US$5.0
million and the disbursement percentage increased.
1.33    The closing date of the Project was extended by two years to 31 December 1993, and the
project succeeded in implementing the revised project objectives: resealing 537 km, regravelling
558 km by small domestic contractors trained under the Project, paving 56 km, strengthening 29
km of the Mombasa-Nairobi road, provision of road maintenance equipment, purchase of bitumen
for locally funded resealing projects, and the provision of technical assistance for the introduction
of improved maintenance and equipment planning. Throughout the project, the shortage of local
funding was a critical issue, restricting the scope of work and delaying payments to contractors.



- 10 -
While the revised project components were successfully implemented, the overall objectives of the
Highway Plan were not attained and the continued inadequacy of maintenance funding on the
network largely offset the benefits of improvements on specific links. It is clear from the
implementation of this project that much greater emphasis had to be given to the issue of long-term
sustainability in the sector and this critically depends on the generation of adequate local funding
for road maintenance. The final audit report has been submitted by the Government.
G. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.34    The Bank has played a leading role in the development of the road sector since before
Independence and has maintained a continuous dialogue with Government on appropriate strategies
for the sector. Work is now under way to develop a new strategic plan for the sector which will
have as its principal objective the attainment of sustainability through local resource financing of
adequate routine and periodic maintenance. Donor funding will then concentrate on the
improvement of the network rather than remedying the effects of inadequate maintenance. To
achieve sustainability, however, will require substantial assistance to remove the backlog of
periodic maintenance, strengthening and rehabilitation work that has developed. Further assistance
by the Bank, within an agreed strategy for the sector, will help mobilize other donors to maintain
or extend their funding to the sector. The improvement of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road would
provide high profile endorsement of an agreed strategy for the sector. A Letter of Sector Policy
was submitted by the Government (Annex 8) and the draft Strategic Plan was submitted by the
Government. Government approval of the agreed final Strategic Plan would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
1.35    The rehabilitation and strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa road is also vital to provide
the quality of infrastructure necessary to support Kenya's overall economic strategy, a strategy
which has been strongly endorsed by the Bank. If Kenya is to succeed in an export oriented
growth policy, based on the development of the manufacturing and other non-traditional activities,
rapid, reliable and low cost communications between the production areas, in Nairobi and Westem
Kenya, and the port of Mombasa is essential. The railway system could provide an economical
mode of transport for lower value, time insensitive products but road transport is essential for other
commodities. The Nairobi-Mombasa road is one of the most heavily trafficked routes in Kenya
and requires substantial reconstruction, widening and strengthening. Without this project, the
condition of the road is expected to deteriorate very substantially and will consume an increasing
proportion of the maintenance budget as MOPWH attempts to maintain a road which has exceeded
its design life.



- II -
2. THE KENYAN ROAD SECTOR
A. PRESENT INFRASTRUCTURE
Network Size
2.1     The Kenyan economy is dependent on roads and road transport. Even if the proposed
restructuring of Kenya Railways fully succeeds, roads and road transport will remain Kenya's primary
transport system. In view of the importance of the sector, the priority given to the development of the
road infrastructure since Independence is not exceptional and is similar to most SSA countries. High
priority was attached to the improvement of the main road network and the network of paved roads
has increased from about 1,800 km, at Independence, to over 8,600 km in 1994. In addition to
upgrading the main road network, a series of projects have extended and improved rural access roads
in the most densely populated and agriculturally important areas of the country. Currently, Kenya has
a classified road network, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, of
just over 63,000 km, Table 11.1.
Table 11.1: Kenya Classified Road Network 1993
Road Class          Bitumen       Gravel         Earth         Total
International Trunk (A)    2,667           783           241         3,691
National Trunk (B)         1,403           821           524         2,748
Primary (C)                2,503          3,292        2,160         7,955
Secondary (D)              1,171          6,128        3,921        11,220
Minor and Special (E)        878         15,069       21,559        37,507
Total Network              8,621         26,092       28,406        63,120
Source: MOPWH
2.2     In addition to the classified road network, there are estimated to be about 85,000 km of
urban streets, and unclassified roads and tracks. Various agencies are nominally responsible for the
unclassified road network; municipalities, county councils and the Kenya Wildlife Service. With
certain exceptions, the responsible agencies have been unable to maintain the unclassified network
and, though information is extremely limited, the conditions on most of this network are thought to be
very bad and many of the unclassified roads may no longer be motorable.
2.3     While most investment has been directed to upgrading the main road network, there has also
been a significant expansion in the coverage of the classified rural road network through the special
crop-oriented programs (tea, sugar and wheat roads) and the rural access road program (RARP).
RARP was commenced in the early 1970's with the intention of constructing a very extensive network
of all-weather rural access roads, using labor-intensive construction methods. The full objective of the
program (about 14,000 km of rural roads) was not realized but over 8,000 km of rural road were
constructed. The roads under RARP have subsequently been maintained under the Minor Roads
Programme (MRP) which has extended the labor-intensive approach to the improvement of existing
minor roads. Overall, there are now over 12,000 km of rural road which have been improved and are
Inadequate re-gravelling may have reduced some roads, classified as gravel, to earth



- 12 -
now maintained under MRP. Through the RARP and MRP programs, Kenya has become an
important innovator in labor-based road construction and maintenance techniques.
Network Condition
2.4     While there may be small areas with insufficient density of classified roads, coverage of the
network is generally adequate to support the present types/level of economic activity in Kenya; roads
are concentrated in areas of high population and economic activity. The primary problem in the
Kenya road sector is not the quantity but the quality of the network. The inadequate quality of the
network is the consequence of two rather different factors:
*  Road conditions on most paved and unpaved roads have deteriorated significantly through
a lack of maintenance and, on the main paved network, the overloading of vehicles.
*  Traffic growth has resulted in a substantial network of unpaved roads carrying traffic
levels sufficient to justify paved roads; about 2500 km of unpaved road carry over 200
vehicles per day.
2.5     Operating conditions are inadequate on large sections of the network and the situation is
deteriorating. A visual inspection of the paved network in 1989/90 indicated that 32 percent of the
network was in good condition, 39 percent in fair condition (requiring some periodic maintenance) and
28 percent in poor condition (substantial amount of failure requiring major work). In 1993 the visual
inspection classified only 12 percent in good condition, 42 percent in fair condition and 46 percent in
poor/critical condition. With the exception of the roads being improved/maintained under the donor-
assisted Minor Roads Program, the situation is probably even more critical on the unpaved road
network although condition survey data are lacking. It is known, however that funds for periodic
maintenance of the unpaved network have been extremely limited (in the period 1987-1992, less than
3,000 km were regravelled, compared to a requirement of about 20,000 km) and even routine
maintenance is not fully undertaken.
2.6     On some roads, the deterioration has resulted from inadequate design and/or construction
standards. The shift in long distance heavy freight transport from rail to road clearly had a major
impact along the main corridors. Major investment has been necessary, along most of the Northern
Corridor, to raise pavement standards to meet present traffic loadings. Several attempts have been
made to control vehicle overloading through the introduction of fixed weigh bridges and then, when
these proved unsuccessful, through random checks using mobile weigh bridges (supported through the
Second Highway Sector Project). These attempts have, up to now, not proved very successful and
have either been suspended or operated under rules which make enforcement ineffective. There was
also an attempt, in 1991, to limit tanker axle-loads by restricting the permissible volumetric size of
tanks but enforcement of the gazetted regulations was delayed to allow tranporters time to adjust. The
EU has funded the installation of automatic traffic data collection systems which should provide
evidence of whether enforcement has had any measurable impact; these data collection systems should
become operational in the near future. The recent evidence on overloading is not encouraging. The
extension of the pipeline to both Kisumu and Eldoret should significantly reduce traffic loadings on
part of the main road network, but will have no direct impact on the Nairobi-Mombasa road unless KR
can capture a higher share of the heavy oil market, by converting its redundant light oil tanker
wagons.



- 13 -
2.7     Inadequate road maintenance has been a significant problem for most of the last thirty years.
In 1968, the road network was found to be deteriorating, partly because of vehicle overloading, but
mainly because road maintenance by the local authorities was inadequate. To improve the situation,
central Government assumed responsibility for the maintenance for the entire classified road network.
Road maintenance improved considerably until 1975 when insufficient funding began to result in
substantial cutbacks in both periodic (resealing and regravelling) and routine maintenance. The First
Highway Sector Project had, as one of its objectives, support for the road maintenance sector but
underfunding continued (Para. 1.31). The Second Highway Sector was expected to reduce the
backlog of periodic maintenance but the achievements of the project were well below the initial
objectives (Para. 1.32).
2.8     The expansion of the network has intensified the problem of inadequate maintenance
funding. In the early 1980's, road tolls were introduced on the main paved network to supplement
regular budgetary funding. While the toll revenue provided funds outside the normal budget (in
1992/93 K Sh 326 million was collected in toll revenue and used for periodic maintenance and
strengthening of the main paved road system), the net increase in funding was limited as the normal
budgetary allocations, in real terms, declined. Recent expenditure in the sector is shown in Table II.2
Table 11.2: Expenditure on the Classified Road Network (K Sh million)
FY 88/89   FY89/90   FY90/91   FY91/92   FY92/93   FY93/94
Estimate   Estimate
Recurrent
Wages/overheads     334        312        324        346       416        548
Maintenance         134        150        184        216       244        928
Toll revenue        130        216        282        328        326       296
Total               598        678        790        890       986        1772
(Constant prices)    (598)    (597)      (600)      (570)     (503)      (549)
Development
GOK                1062        988        892        708       1042       974
Donors              876        778        994        978       1596      1456
Total              1938       1766       1886       1686      2638       2430
(Constant prices)   (1938)   (1554)    (1433)      (1079)     (1345)     (753)
Total              2536       2444       2676       2576      3624       4202
(Constant prices)   (2536)    (2151)    (2034)    (1649)    (1848)    (1303)
Source: GOK and Intech Associates
2.9     Under the Fifth Highway Plan, which was the basis of the Second Highway Sector Project,
recurrent expenditure in FY89 should have been approximately double the actual level. This provides
an indication of the inadequacy of maintenance funding. Development expenditure in FY89 was
almost exactly equal, in real terms, to the Plan's requirement. Recurrent expenditure does not,
however, equate exactly with maintenance expenditure as some donor funding for maintenance is
included within the Development Estimates. Overall, however, there has been a significant reduction
in maintenance funding since the 1970's and a major fall in total road expenditure in recent years.
The extent of underfunding of road maintenance in Kenya is not known with total precision, but it is
very considerable. A consultant study for the recent PER estimated that total annual spending by
MOPWH on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the network was K Sh 1.72 billion (this included



- 14 -
maintenance components within improvement projects). The consultants estimated that adequate road
maintenance for a rehabilitated and rationalized classified road network would cost in the order of
K Sh 4.70 billion. Several other estimates indicate rather higher funding needs and K Sh 6 billion is a
reasonably robust estimate of maintenance requirements for the entire classified road network.
j
2.10    The present level of maintenance funding cannot even be optimally allocated as a high
proportion of the recurrent budget is needed to pay a large workforce of permanent laborers who
cannot be productive because there are insufficient funds to provide the complementary materials,
tools and transport. The estimates of road maintenance needs have been made on the assumption that
the road network is maintainable. Unfortunately, neglect over many years has resulted in much of the
network deteriorating to the point where rehabilitation is necessary before maintenance is possible.
Full rehabilitation of the system, to conventional standards, has been costed very approximately at
K Sh 36 billion.
B. ROAD TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC FLOWS
2.11    The vehicle fleet has grown consistently and is now estimated to total over 330,000 vehicles
(excluding motorcycles and special purpose vehicles), Table 11.3. The rapid growth in the bus fleet
(mainly mini-buses) reflects the substantial rise in the population and increased personal mobility. The
road freight sector has shown the slowest growth and this is perhaps surprising, given the growth in
the economy and the increasing importance of the trucking sector for long distance freight movement.
The increase in the paved road network should have allowed more intensive utilization of commercial
vehicles and there has been significantly faster growth in the heaviest truck segment, as reflected by
the growth in the number of trailers (associated with heavy trucks).
Table 11.3: Road Vehicle Fleet 1972 - 1992
('000 vehicles)
Annual
1972    1976    1980    1984    1988    1992        Growth
Trend (%)
Car          76      100     113     122      141     171         3.9
Pick-up      34      45       56      65       78      96         5.4
Bus           3        5       5       7       11      16         8.2
Truck        17      21       24      25       30      35         3.5
Trailer       5        9      11      11       13      15         4.9
Total       135      180     209     230      273     333         4.4
Source: MOTC
2.12    Traffic flows are concentrated on the main paved trunk road system; approximately 10
percent of the total network, carries over 60 percent of total vehicle-km and almost 90 percent of
heavy truck-kms, Table 11.4. Light and medium goods vehicles are more widely distributed over the
network. Light goods vehicles (pick-ups) appear as the most intensively used vehicle, accounting for
over 50 percent of total vehicle-km while forming less than 30 percent of the total fleet.



- 15 -
Table II.4: Traffic Distribution by Road and Vehicle Type
(Percent Distribution)
Road Category   Percent of  Cars   Light    Medium    Heavy   Buses    Total
Network           Goods    Goods    Goods                Traffic
Trunk               10       74       55        59         87       77       62
Primary             13       16       23        23          9       16       20
Secondary           18        5        9         9          1        6        8
Minor               59        5       14         9          3        2        10
All Roads          100      100      100       100        100      100      100
Percent of vehicle fleet     54       30         6          5        5      100
Percent of vehicle-kms       21       51        18          5        5      100
Source: MOWPH and MOTC
2.13     The road freight industry is privately owned and operates with little effective government
regulation. There are no entry restrictions nor official capacity licensing. Tariffs are not regulated
and the influence that Government implicitly exercised through retail price-controls has now been
eliminated. While there are a few large trucking companies, normally specializing in long distance
trucking, most trucking enterprises are very small. The sector is very competitive and tariffs adjust
rapidly to market conditions, e.g. backhaul rates from the Western Kenya are very low and trucking
rates rose very quickly in response to the interruption to rail traffic in early 1993. Tariffs are kept low
through overloading which has been a persistent problem. A combination of competitive pressure and
weak enforcement encourages truckers to carry the payload which maximizes private profits. Kenyan
regulations allow 10 tonnes on a single axle, 16 tonnes on a tandem axle, and 24 tonnes on a triple
axle. The gross vehicle weight of a six axle truck combination, meeting the legal axle load limits,
should not exceed about 47 tonnes but such vehicles can physically operate with a payload of well over
40 tonnes (a recent survey intercepted one vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of 74 tons, equivalent to
a payload of over 50 tonnes). As legal loading would restrict the payload to under 30 tonnes, the
incentive to overload is enormous.
2.14     The bus industry is predominantly operated by the private sector although the Nyayo Bus
Corporation is state owned. Two large bus companies, operating in Nairobi and Mombasa are owned
by an international company with minority municipal participation. The main increase in passenger
transport has been provided by mini-buses (matatus) which were legalized in the early 1970's. The
mini-buses provide both urban and inter-urban services and operate under little effective government
control or regulation, except over the size of the vehicles. There is, however, some self-regulation
through informal cartels within the sector.
2.15     In some countries the road transport industry is hampered by over-regulation. In Kenya, the
problem is almost the reverse. There is little effective enforcement of regulations relating to vehicle
condition, vehicle loading and driving standards. The road accident rate in Kenya, as in many SSA
countries, is very high, at least 20 times higher than in Europe and North America, and approximately
3 people die in road accidents every day. While poor road conditions may be a factor in some cases,
human behavior is thought to be responsible for over 80 percent of all road accidents; excessive speed,
vehicle overloading, and careless pedestrians are all significant contributors to the high accident rates.



- 16 -
C. THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HOUSING
Organization
2.16    The Ministry is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
classified road network. The Roads Department, under the Chief Engineer (Roads), is primarily
responsible for the classified road sector although a separate department is responsible for the
provision and maintenance of the road construction and maintenance equipment, and the Materials
Department provides soil testing and pavement design. The Roads Department has recently been re-
organized with separate maintenance branches being created for paved and unpaved roads. The
special projects for unpaved roads, such as the Minor Roads Program, the Culvert, Bridge and
Gravelling Programme, and the Market Development Program, have all been placed under the
Unpaved Maintenance Branch. Planning, previously a separate division, has been incorporated into
the Roads Department which is now responsible for all road maintenance and investment planning.
2.17    The Roads Department has increasingly recognized that it is faced with considerable
problems, both financial and organizational, in discharging its responsibilities to the road network:
•  Inadequate funding for road maintenance
-  Excess staff in the lower grades in comparison with the funding available for
complementary inputs, resulting in very low labor productivity
-  Inadequate availability of maintenance equipment and transport
*  Inadequate salary structure to recruit, retain and motivate high-level engineers
*  Inadequate road inventory condition information and maintenance planning systems
-  Inadequate O&M resources to utilize fully staff in the Materials and Design Branches
2.18    Kenya is one of the countries working with the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program's
Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) to remedy the pervasive problem of inadequate maintenance. A
major RMI seminar was held in Kenya, during 1992, to examine the problems of the road maintenance
and to identify possible solutions. Government has already acted to increase the level of road
maintenance funding with the Road Maintenance Levy Fund (Para. 2.24) and a major institutional
study of the entire road sector has been initiated. The institutional study will be completed in mid
1996.
Activities of the Roads Department
2.19    Over a number of years, there has been a shift toward the use of the private sector for the
implementation of road works. Major construction contracts have always been undertaken by contract
and most periodic maintenance of paved roads is now contracted out, although the Ministry still
maintains some resealing units. A relatively large domestic contracting sector has developed and the
upgrading and strengthening projects funded by the Second Highway Sector Project were undertaken
by Kenya-based contractors. Routine maintenance of the paved road network is still undertaken by
MOPWH.



- 17 -
2.20    Extensive programs of rural road construction and improvement have been undertaken by
the Ministry using both labor and equipment intensive methods. Until recently, these programs were
implemented entirely by the Ministry, although often using casual rather than permanently employed
labor. Recently, pilot projects have used contractors to undertake labor-intensive gravelling. IDA
also funded, under the Second Highway Sector Project, contract re-gravelling using equipment-
intensive methods; this funding included the training of medium sized contractors for such activities.
Routine maintenance of the unpaved network is presently implemented by two quite distinct systems:
(a)    Minor Roads Program Network: for those roads constructed/improved under RARP
and MRP, routine maintenance is undertaken by the lengthman system. Individuals
are contracted to maintain, on average, 1.5 km of road with the work expected to
occupy about three days per week. The lengthman system has been introduced on
about 12,000 km of unpaved road, over 20 percent of the unpaved network.
(b)    Other Unpaved Roads: for those unpaved roads outside the MRP network, routine
maintenance is nominally performed by the district based road camps and by MOPWH
graders. The funding for road maintenance is so limited, however, that maintenance is
negligible on much of the network. This gives rise to the anomaly that well
maintained minor and rural access roads connect with almost impassable secondary
(D) and sometimes primary (C) roads and, on occasion, RARP/MRP roads have
effectively taken the place of 'higher category' roads and carry traffic levels well
above their design standard.
2.21    Maintenance planning is assisted by the Highway Maintenance Management System
(HMMS) which is a computer based system containing the complete inventory of the classified road
network, traffic levels, geometric and surface conditions. The system is designed to prioritize road
maintenance expenditure and to determine the distribution of available funds on the basis of district
needs. The inventory information is now rather dated, however, and the level of funding is so low
that the usefulness of the system is questionable. The system does provide a rational means of
allocating funds between districts but, in establishing priorities, HMMS has the weakness that traffic
plays an insignificant role. For much of the network, funds are allocated from headquarters but their
use is prioritized at the district level. HMMS also determines maintenance costs for the unpaved
network on the basis of equipment-intensive maintenance, including full re-gravelling, which will no
longer be appropriate when the Roads 2000 strategy is implemented (Para. 2.26). Other maintenance
management systems have been developed under the MRP and MOPWH needs now to review its
planning methods and integrate them into a coherent system. The proposed project will assist
MOPWH in this review.
2.22    The Roads Department also includes the Construction Branch, responsible for the
administration of contracts for major construction, and a Design Branch.
D. STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
2.23    MOPWH clearly recognizes that major changes are required in the financing, planning and
execution of activities in the sector, if the condition of the classified network is to be raised and
maintained to the level necessary for sustained economic development. The Ministry is moving



- 18 -
toward a new strategy for the sector and several of the key components have already been identified
and implementation initiated.
Maintenance Funding
2.24    A maintenance funding plan for FY96 and a schedule of future funding for maintenance of
the road sector through FY2000 was agreed. Increased funding for maintenance of the network is
essential and MOPWH has realized that sufficient funding is unlikely to be provided from the regular
budget and that potential donor funding for maintenance is both limited and, in the longer term,
inappropriate. New sources of revenue, outside the regular budget, must therefore be identified and
utilized. The crop Cess (a levy on crop sales) could provide some funding for rural roads but it would
not be sufficient for the entire network and more substantial funding is necessary. The road user, as
the main beneficiary of improved roads, is the most obvious source of revenue for rehabilitating and
maintaining the road network and the most convenient means of collecting such revenue is through
fuel sales. In order to raise the revenue required for funding the maintenance of the road network a
Road Maintenance Levy Fund was enacted in late 1993, and introduced in June, 1994. The fund
derives its revenue from a levy on the sales of diesel and gasoline and the charges levied on foreign
registered transit vehicles. The Levy fund has replaced the system of road tolls.
2.25    The eventual size of the Levy Fund, required for full maintenance funding, has not yet been
determined. The present modalities for the Fund's operation appear satisfactory but the details are still
evolving. Although the Fund forms part of the recurrent budget, payments are made directly to
MOPWH by Customs on a weekly basis. It has also been agreed that an annual report will be
prepared on the use of the Fund. The initial level of the Fund, generated by a K Sh 1.5/liter levy on
gasoline and K Sh 1.0/liter on diesel, is well below requirements and agreement has been reached with
Government on the progressive increase in overall funding until sustainable maintenance funding is
reached by 2000. The level of the levy was increased by K Sh 0.5/liter in the June 1995 Budget. To
fund maintenance of the classified road network solely through the Fund would require a levy of
approximately K Sh 6.0/liter on all automotive fuels. To help ensure cost-effective maintenance, the
project will assist MOPWH to establish a Road Works Inspectorate (RWI) to monitor the
implementation and quality of the maintenance undertaken. Its proposed organization, powers and
functions were agreed during negotiations; establishment, including the appointment of the senior
superintending engineer and, at least, two superintending engineers, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
The Roads 2000 Strategy
2.26    Kenya has been a pioneer in the region for the construction and maintenance of unpaved
rural roads using labor-intensive techniques. The projects have been successful but their approach
does not provide a complete solution to the rural road problem:
They do not provide a sustainable rural road network, rather a series of improved and
maintained links within the network.
The cost of full road rehabilitation, even using appropriate techniques, is too high to
apply throughout the network.
*      Some unpaved roads carry too much traffic to be maintained by lengthmen.



- 19 -
*      In some parts of Kenya, the population is too low to make lengthman maintenance
feasible.
*      Full gravelling/re-gravelling of unpaved roads is becoming increasingly difficult and
costly, in some areas of Kenya, as suitable natural gravel is being exhausted.
2.27     The Ministry, within the on-going MRP, has developed a new strategy for the unpaved road
network which takes into account the problems and constraints, outlined above, and offers the prospect
of a major improvement over the present system. The strategy is based on the following principles:
*      all classified roads in a district are brought up to a maintainable standard.
*      spot improvement/partial rehabilitation is used. Major increases in condition and
accessibility can be cost-effectively achieved with spot improvements. Gravelling is
confined to major problem areas.
*      on higher trafficked roads, the lengthman system is supplemented by intermediate
equipment, essentially tractor-towed graders.
*      tractor-towed grader teams will maintain unpaved roads in areas of low population
density.
The strategy has been termed Roads 2000 because the Ministry would like to implement the system in
all districts by the year 2000. The approach has been successfully implemented in two districts and the
Ministry is seeking funds to extend its application. The costs of Roads 2000 are substantially lower
than conventional rehabilitation but full implementation of the strategy will still cost about US$165
million with annual recurrent costs of US$25 million.
Institutional Strategy
2.28     The Ministry recognizes that major changes/modifications to the present institutional
framework for the implementation of road activities would be desirable and has initiated a study to
define a framework more adapted to future needs (Para. 2.18). Natural attrition has already
significantly reduced the excess work force in the lower grades, assisted by the GOK's early
retirement policy introduced in 1994. Further reductions in staffing levels are expected as part of the
restructuring of MOPWH, initiated under the Civil Service Reform Program.
Strategic Plan for the Road Sector
2.29     The potential expenditure demands of Kenya's classified road network on Government's
resources are immense:
*      Rehabilitation of large parts of the network.
*      Full maintenance of the network.
*      Removing the backlog in periodic maintenance.
*      Strengthening key sections of the main road network.



- 20 -
*      Upgrading heavily trafficked unpaved roads.
*      Provision of all-weather access to all districts/major centers.
The Ministry prepared, in 1991, a program of required rehabilitation and improvement projects but it
is clear that its magnitude makes it unlikely that the full program can be implemented in the near
future and thus prioritization of the program is critical. It is also essential that the prioritization takes
place within an overall strategy which will achieve financial sustainability in order that future donor
funding can be directed toward the expansion and upgrading of the network rather than to maintenance
and rehabilitating the consequences of neglected maintenance. MOPWH, assisted by PPF funding for
the proposed Third Highway Sector Project, has consequently been preparing a Strategic Plan for the
Sector which encompasses the needs/priorities for the classified road network, covering maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement. Agreement has been reached on the draft Strategic Plan.
2.30     The Strategic Plan not only indicates what should be implemented in the sector but also how
it should be implemented. MOPWH faces a number of important policy issues in implementing its
future strategy, including the relative roles of force account and contract work in the sector, and the
persistent problem of the provision and maintenance of road construction and maintenance equipment.
The benefits of utilizing the private sector in the road sector have been accepted for major construction
and periodic maintenance projects. It is also accepted that there may be substantial advantages in
further extending the use of the private sector but the use of the private sector for smaller projects,
such as road rehabilitation under the Roads 2000 Strategy, and for routine maintenance, especially on
the paved road network remains largely untested in Kenya. The project will assist MOPWH with the
development of pilot routine maintenance contracts and their evaluation through a program of
'structured learning'. The Preparatory work for the Strategic Plan thus included policy studies to
assist the MOPWH in determining its future approach to the delivery of activities in the sector. The
Strategy will provide the basis for future IDA road sector lending through the Third Highway Sector
Project.



- 21 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
3.1     The proposed project was identified and prepared during the course of dialogue with
MOPWH on the preparation of the Strategic Plan for the Road Sector and the development of the
Third Highway Sector Project. It was agreed that the Mombasa - Nairobi Road plays such a crucial
role in Kenya's overall transport and economic system that its rehabilitation and/or strengthening
would receive very high, if not the highest priority in any conceivable strategy for the sector. In these
circumstances, it was appropriate to advance the project, especially as the European Union (EU)
indicated strong interest in financing a section of the required road reconstruction thus offering the
opportunity for a coordinated approach to the entire road. Assistance for the Nairobi-Mombasa road
still required, however, agreement between IDA and the Government on the Strategic Plan for the
Road Sector.
3.2     The project was pre-appraised in February, 1994, and appraised in June, 1994. The
Materials Department of MOPWH undertook the detailed material testing for the project and the
Design Branch of the Roads Department prepared the detailed designs. In view of the importance of
the road and the need to minimize the risk of premature failure, an independent design and risk review
was undertaken of the detailed design. The EU are appointing consultants to undertake the detailed
design of the road section to be reconstructed.
B. OBJECTIVES
3.3     The proposed project will support Kenya's efforts to rehabilitate and strengthen its main
road network. The most immediate objective of the project is to safeguard the only feasible road
connection between the port of Mombasa and the main areas of economic activity in Kenya. The
condition of the road already causes major operating problems and, if the road continues to
deteriorate, severe constraints to Kenya's export-oriented growth strategy will develop. The project
will significantly reduce present and future vehicle operating costs, journey times and improve traffic
safety. The project will also encourage private sector involvement in the maintenance of
infrastructure, strengthen monitoring/control of road maintenance activities and provide basic
institutional support for road maintenance planning.
3.4     The project is designed to reconstruct and strengthen the Mombasa road in order to provide
economic operating conditions along Kenya's main road link to the sea for a design life of 15 years.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.5     The present road, of just under 500 km, is two lane except for the dual carriageway between
the center of Nairobi and Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. The road was mainly constructed
during the late 1960's and 1970's although some sections date back to the 1950's. Much of the road
was thus designed and constructed when Kenya Railways was the dominant mode for long distance,
bulk freight transport. With the major shift of freight from rail to road (transit traffic in the 1970's



- 22 -
and domestic traffic in the 1980's and 1990's), the Nairobi-Mombasa Road has carried traffic well
above its design level.
Road Inventory
3.6       The width of the pavement is either 7 meter or 6 meter, depending on the section. Along
much of the 6 meter sections, damage to the road edges has effectively reduced the pavement width to
5.5 meter or less. Since construction, the road has been resealed and some sections have been
strengthened with 50 mm asphalt overlays. Approximately 30 km of the road, between the Machakos
turn-off and Ulu (Km 27 - 46), were reconstructed under the Second Highway Sector Project and
opened in 1992/93. A status summary of the Nairobi-Mombasa road is provided in Table III. 1.
Table III.1: Nairobi-Mombasa Road
Road         Year      Pavement         Past        Roughness           Road Condition!
Section (km)   Opened       Width       Intervention     mm/km           Proposed Intervention
Nairobi
0 - 12        1978        Dual      Overlay 1993       2251      Maintenance
12 - 27       1975        7.Om      Overlay 1993       2284      Maintenance
Future dual carriage way
27 - 46       1956        7.Om      Overlay                      Maintenance
_  ongoing          2284/45521   Possible future dual carriage way
46 - 77       1993        7.Om      Reconstructed      2233      Some rutting, shoulder cracking
Maintenance
77 - 103      1977        7.Om      Resealed           3240      Climbing lanes badly rutted
Reconstruct climbing lanes
103 - 238      1967     5.5 - 6.Om    Major patching    3970      Major pavement failures
Reconstruct and widen to 7m
238 - 367      1967      5.0 - 6.Om    Reseal           3109      Major edge failures
some overlay                 Strengthen and widen to 7m
367 - 393      1964     5.0 - 6.0m    Reseal            3520      Major edge failures
Strengthen and widen to 7m
393 - 462      1970        7.Om      Reseal             3269      Maintenance
462 - 484      1954        7.Om      Overlay            N.A       Maintenance
484 - 492      1953        7.Om      Overlay            N.A       Condition deteriorating
Mombasa                                                           Possible future dual carriage way
Source: MOPWH
3.7       At the present time, the most badly deteriorated section of the road is the 135 km between
Sultan Hainud and Mtito Andei (Km 103 - 238) which has failed badly along much of its length. The
deterioration of the section became most obvious following the heavy rains and closure of the rail link
to Mombasa in early 1993, when much of the road surface broke up. A major maintenance effort has
patched and resealed the failed sections but this work, while improving operating conditions, only
provided a very temporary solution and the road failed again during December, 1994. In general,
pavement conditions on the Nairobi-bound lane are significantly poorer than on the Mombasa-bound
lane, reflecting the impact of heavily loaded freight vehicles moving inland from the port. Unless the
section from Mtito Andei to Bachuma Gate (Km 238 - 393) is strengthened in the near future, it will
also fail in a similar fashion.
1   2284 mm/km overlay, 4550 mm/km for road waiting for overlay



- 23 -
3.8     The Nairobi-Mombasa road carries in excess of 1,000 commercial vehicles daily, including
about 600 heavy commercial vehicles with three or more axles. The average axle-loads of
commercial vehicles, operating along the road have generally increased since the late 1970's, Table
III.2.
Table 111.2: Average Equivalent Standard Axles per Loaded Vehide
Westbound Vehicles
Period      Medium Truck      Heavy Truck        Tanker           Bus
2 axles         3 + axles        3 + axles
1977- 1980          1.5               9.7            21.4            1.0
1981 - 1984         1.2              10.8            16.0            0.8
1985 - 1988         1.7              11.6            16.0            0.8
1989- 1991          2.1              13.4            13.9            1.6
Source: Materials Department, MOPWH
3.9      Petroleum tankers are the exception to the general trend but this may be due to the phasing
out of old vehicles which, while nominally having tandem rear axles, concentrated the vehicle weight
on a single rear axle. The most recent axle-load survey (1994) indicated significantly higher ESA's
for 2 axle trucks (3.4 ESA/vehicle) but no significant increases for larger trucks. On the basis of the
traffic flows and the most recent estimates of average vehicle loading, the Mombasa - Nairobi lane
annually carries well over 1.0 million ESAs. If this level of traffic is maintained, a design life of 15
years would require pavement construction for over 20 million ESAs in a single direction.
Project Components
3.10    Reconstruction/strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa road: The Nairobi-Mombasa
road can be split into six separate sections, each requiring a different level of intervention to safeguard
operating conditions:
*  Km 0 - 77 (Nairobi - Ulu): the road is in reasonable condition and only requires full routine
and periodic maintenance.
*  Km 77 - 103 (Ulu - Sultan Hamud): reconstruction of the badly rutted climbing lanes on the
westbound lane is required, together with maintenance of the section. The EU is undertaking
a study of the causes of the rutting which affects the asphalt concrete wearing course but not
the pavement base. The reconstruction of the climbing lanes will be undertaken by MOPWH
using either a modified asphalt mix or concrete block paving which has been successfully used
on the Mombasa causeway.
*  Km 103 - 238 (Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei): this section will be reconstructed along its
existing alignment. In addition to reconstruction, the road will be widened to 7 meters, with 2
meter sealed shoulders. The funding for the improvement of this section is expected to be
provided by the EU.
*  Km 238 - 393 (Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate): this section will be widened to 7 meters with 2
meter shoulders, and strengthened for a 15 year design life. It is proposed that IDA would
fund the foreign exchange component of the costs for this section of the road.



- 24 -
•  Km 393 - 484 (Bachuma Gate - Mazeras): the pavement of this section does not require any
immediate strengthening and well executed routine and periodic maintenance should be
sufficient for the next five years. It is proposed that, under the Project, the routine
maintenance of this section is contracted to the private sector.
*  Km 484 - 492 (Mazeras - Mombasa): MOWPH is considering improvement options for this
section, including the construction of a dual carriageway.
3.11    Pilot Routine Maintenance Contracts: The use of private contractors for periodic
maintenance is well established in Kenya and MOPWH considers that contracting could also play a
valuable role in routine maintenance. Before making such a major policy change, however, the
MOPWH wants to test the approach to determine its practicality and potential benefits. It is proposed,
therefore, that the routine maintenance of three sections of the Northern Corridor road route,
including Km 393 - 484 of the Nairobi-Mombasa road, will be contracted out to the private sector as a
pilot exercise to demonstrate the benefits of the more extensive use of private maintenance
contracting. The maintenance of these sections will be contracted for a total of four years, but through
two year contracts in order to allow the contract terms and conditions to be modified on the basis of
operational experience. The outline contracts were provided prior to negotiations. The performance
of the private sector will be compared to public sector contracts with provincial re-sealing units on a
further two sections of the Corridor. The component is more fully outlined in Annex 1. It is
proposed that IDA would fund 50 percent of the contracts, broadly equivalent to the foreign exchange
costs. Any periodic resealing works required on the sections will be undertaken under normal
MOPWH financing and contracting arrangements.
3.12    It is proposed that the pilot maintenance contracts and the force account sections will be
monitored by an independent research institution within a 'structured learning' framework. The draft
TORs for performance monitoring were agreed during negotiations. The research institution will
monitor the maintenance expenditure, the quantity and quality of work undertaken, the modalities of
the contracting arrangements and the overall impact of the maintenance regimes on pavement
conditions. It is expected that amendments will be made to the contract arrangements during the four
year period as a result of the structured learning results.
3.13    Road Works Inspectorate: The monitoring and control of road maintenance is weak. The
problems are particularly acute for roads outside the main paved network and the Minor Roads
Program; the funds are provided by the center but work is planned and executed at the District level.
The Districts are supposed to report maintenance activities to the Roads Department in Nairobi, but it
is clear that reporting is inadequate. The problems of ensuring adequate control and cost-effective
maintenance will become more acute with the increase in the level of funding. It is clear to MOPWH
that this weakness must be remedied if maintenance funding is to be further increased. The project
will thus assist to establish a Road Works Inspectorate within the Roads Department. The Inspectorate
will be located within the Design Branch and will thus be independent of both the paved and unpaved
maintenance branches. The Inspectorate will have full access to information in Nairobi and the
districts and its reports will be submitted to the Permanent Secretary with copies to the Chief Engineer
(Roads) and the officers involved with the works inspected. An annual report of the Inspectorate's
activities will be prepared. A fuller outline of the proposed Inspectorate is provided in Annex 2.



- 25 -
3.14    Institutional Support: MOPWH is embarking on new activities with the introduction of
routine maintenance contracts for paved roads and the establishment of the Road Works Inspectorate
to undertake technical performance reviews. Support for these activities will be provided through a
twinning arrangement with an external road agency. Possible twinning partners have been identified
and the initial twinning phase will funded through the PPF. The twinning arrangement will combine
technical advice and training within Kenya for both supervision of maintenance contracts and the
establishment of the Road Works Inspectorate, with training in the twinning agency.
3.15    In addition to the twinning arrangement, institutional support is proposed to strengthen the
basic tools used within the Roads Department for maintenance and investment planning. IDA
assistance will thus be provided to produce an updated and rationalized inventory and condition survey
of the classified road network. Consultants will be commissioned to assist MOPWH to determine the
type and detail of road inventory and condition data required for each category of classified road, and
the system needed for the collection and periodic updating of the data. The system will emphasize the
Ministry's priorities, sustainability by restricting regular data collection to the minimum, and the
involvement of the provincial/district engineers whose support is essential. It is expected that the new
inventory for the paved road network will form the basis for introducing a pavement management
system in the future. IDA would also assist with the production of updated maps of the classified road
network. It is also proposed that limited technical assistance would be provided to rationalize the
maintenance planning systems, including HMMS, which are presently used, taking into account the
adoption of the Roads 2000 strategy for unpaved roads. It will also provide technical assistance for
the preparation of future projects.
D. COST ESTIMATES
3.16    The total Project Cost, including physical and price contingencies, but net of taxes and
duties, is estimated at US$122.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$96.5 million as
shown in Table 111.3.



- 26 -
Table 111.3: Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Component Description          Local     Foreign     Total    % Foreign    % Total
Base Cost
A. Reconstruction/strengthening of
Nairobi-Mombasa Road
Civil Works:
Km 103 - 238                9.2       36.7       45.9         80          46
Kmn 238 - 393               8.2       32.9       41.1         80          41
Supervision:
Krn 103 - 238               0.3        1.7        2.0         85           2
Km 238 - 393                0.4        2.2        2.6         85           3
Sub-Total Nairobi-Mombasa Road         18.1       73.5       91.6        80          91
B. Road Maintenance Strengthening
Pilot Maintenance Contracts             2.5        2.6        5.1        50           5
Structured Learning                     0.1        0.3        0.4        85
Sub-Total Maintenance Strengthening     2.6        2.9        5.5        53           5
C. Institutional Support
Road Inspectorate                       0.0        0.1        0.1       100
Other Institutional Support             0.2        3.0        3.2        93           3
Sub-Total Institutional Support         0.2        3.1        3.3        93           3
BASE COST                              20.9       79.5      100.4        79         100
Physical Contingencies                  2.0        7.2        9.2        78           9
Price Contingencies                     2.6        9.8       12.4        79          12
PROJECT COST (net of taxes and         25.5       96.5      122.0        79         122
duties)
Note: Taxes and duties are estimated at US$ 10.2 million
The estimates are based on the unit-prices of successful MOWPH tenders awarded for major
roadworks in 1993, updated to present price levels. Price contingencies have been calculated on an
average annual international inflation rate of 2.6 percent. This inflation rate has been used for both
foreign and domestic costs as it has been assumed that any differences between domestic and
international price inflation will be offset by equivalent adjustments in Kenya's foreign exchange rate.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been added to the base cost of civil works and other
physical inputs. Price and physical contingencies total US$21.6 million, 18 percent of the total project
cost.



- 27 -
E. FINANCING
3.17    IDA's contribution will be US$50.0 million, or 41 percent of the total project cost net of
taxes. The European Community has expressed interest in financing the civil works on the section
Km 103 - 238, the cost of which has been preliminarily estimated at the equivalent of US$58.8
million, 48 percent of the total project cost. The Government of Kenya will finance the remaining
costs, the equivalent of US$13.2 million or 11 percent of the total cost. The details of the financing
plan are shown in Table I11.4.
Table III.4: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Project Component           IDA      Other    GOK        Total   % IDA
A. Reconstruction/strengthening     42.8     58.8      10.0    111.6       38
Nairobi-Mombasa Road
B. Road Maintenance Strengthening    3.5       0.0      3.2       6.7       54
C. Institutional Support             3.7      0.0       0.0       3.7      100
Total Project                       50.0     58.8      13.22    122.0      41
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.18    The project is expected to have a largely neutral impact on the environment. The IDA
component will rehabilitate/strengthen an existing paved road along its existing alignment. There will
be no re-alignment although, along two short sections totaling about 3.5 km, the road will be raised by
0.5 - 1.0 meter. T he project passes between or alongside National Parks and particular attention has
been given to eliminate or minimize adverse effects during construction. A full environmental
mitigation plan for the civil works has been developed by the MOPWH in collaboration with the
Kenya Wildlife Service which is responsible for the National Parks. The principal environmental
impacts and the mitigation proposed are outlined below:
Environmental Impacts During Construction
*  temporary deviations on unpaved roads will be necessary, creating dust and reducing
vehicle speeds: the contract documents will limit the length of detours in operation at any
one time and require that the deviations are watered.
*  Construction materials will be quarried and transported to the construction sites: the
contract documents will specify that the quarries shall be backfilled, as far as possible, to
their original state after gravel extraction to prevent environmental degradation and the
congregation of wild animals searching for water. Haulage routes within the National
Parks will be minimized and routes will be watered if necessary.
* No blasting shall be carried out within or near the National Parks
2   GOK will also provide US$10.2 million in duties and taxes, the GOK component only refers to the IDA project



- 28 -
*  Drainage improvements will increase water flow from drainage structures. Soil erosion
will be avoided by putting in place proper erosion control especially at steep gradients.
Particular attention will be given to the impact of changed drainage patterns on the
railway track which is generally downstream of the road.
*  No labor camps, asphalt plants or machinery units will be located within the park region.
Spillages of oil, fuel and other materials will be avoided/removed. The contract
documents will specify the clean up of camps, plant sites etc.
*  The Ministry, contractor and supervising consultants will liaise with the Kenya Wildlife
Service at all times when working within the National Parks.
Environmental Impacts Following Construction
* Road safety will be improved by the road widening and provision of wider shoulders, bus
bays and lorry stops.
*  Reduced generation of dust, from vehicles passing over failed sections or using the
unpaved shoulders.



- 29 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
4.1     The Ministry of Public Works and Housing will be responsible for executing the project.
MOPWH has been receiving Bank assistance for many years and is fully conversant with Bank
procedures. Each of the project components will be implemented by a separate branch of the Roads
Department under the overall control and supervision of the Chief Engineer (Roads).
4.2     Reconstruction/widening: Major construction/rehabilitation contracts are the responsibility
of the Construction Branch. The civil works will be implemented by large contractors who will have
been pre-qualified as having the capacity to undertake major works. Consultants will be used to
supervise the donor funded reconstruction and strengthening works. MOPWH gives very high priority
to the safeguarding of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road and the works are expected to be completed within
a five year period. The time schedule for implementation of the project is based on civil works
commencing in the first quarter of FY97. The time schedule is considered realistic as the draft
pre-qualification and tender documents were provided at negotiations and will be issued following
Board approval.
4.3     Road Maintenance Strengthening: The Paved Roads Branch of the Roads Department will
implement this component of the project. Assistance to the Branch will be provided by both the
twinning agency and the research institute undertaking the structured learning assignment. The first
round of two year maintenance contracts are expected to be awarded during the third quarter of FY96.
It is expected that detailed modifications may be made to the terms and conditions of maintenance
contracts during the second year, on the basis of the results of the structured learning component.
These modified contracts will then form the basis for the award of a second round of contracts in
FY98.
4.4     Road Works Inspectorate: The Inspectorate will be created within the Design and
Inspection Branch of the Roads Department. The Inspectorate will led by a Senior Superintending
Engineer (SSE) under the Chief Superintending Engineer (Design and Inspectorate). The Inspectorate
will be assisted in its establishment by the twinning partner. The creation of the Inspectorate is being
assisted through Project Preparation Funds.
4.5     Institutional Support: Direct responsibility for the implementation of the institutional
support to the Roads Department will be taken by the RMI Coordinator who is currently the Chief
Superintending Engineer (Construction). The Chief Engineer (Roads) is expected to play a leading
role in liaison with the twinning road agency and in determining its program of activities and support.



- 30 -
B. PROCUREMENT
4.6      Procurement arrangements for the project are detailed in Table IV. 1.
Table IV.1: Procurement (US$ million)
Project Element                         Procurement Method
Total Cost*            ICB   |  LCB   I Other  |  NBF   | Total Cost
A. Civil Works
Nairobi-Mombasa Road           50.0                            56.5       106.5
(39.5)                                      (39.5)
Routine Maintenance                      6.2                                6.2
_________________________     (3.5)               _   _ _ __      (3.5)
B. Goods                                           0.4                       0.4
_______  _______ (0.4)   _   _ _ __      (0.4)
C. T.A. & Consultants Services
Consulting Services                                5.3          2.3         7.6
________       ~~(5.3)                   (5.3)
Training                                           0.3                       0.3
(0.3)                   (0.3)
Studies                                            0.4                      0.4
(0.4)                   (0.4)
D. Repayment of PPF                                0.6                      0.6
(0.6)                    (0.6)
TOTAL                          50.0      6.2       7.0        58.8        122.0
(39.5)    (3.5)     (7.0)                   (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
* Including contingencies
4.7      Procurement under the credit would cover the cost of civil works, goods and consultants'
services for technical assistance, studies and training (net of taxes).
Civil Works: The contract for strengthening and widening Km 238 -393 of the Nairobi-
Mombasa Road will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) with
prequalification using IDA Guidelines and Bank Standard Bidding Documents for large works,
modified to meet project needs. For Km 103 - 238, procurement will follow the funding
agency's rules.
Individual road maintenance contracts may not be of interest to international bidders because
(i) their value will be small; (ii) works are scattered geographically and over time; (iii) the
works are labor intensive; and, (iv) local availability of small contractors ensures adequacy of
competition. In view of these factors, procurement for the pilot maintenance contracts will
follow Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA. This would include
advertising the works, public opening of bids, clearly stated evaluation criteria and award to
the lowest evaluated bidders. Foreign bidders, if interested, would not be precluded from
participation. Assurances to this effect have been obtained and all LCB documents would be
subject to prior review by IDA.



- 31 -
Goods: The small packages of vehicles, goods and equipment will be procured under
international shopping.
Consultancy Services: IDA financed consultancy services will be hired in accordance with
IDA Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants. Consultants, for the supervision of the
reconstruction of the Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei section of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road (Km
103 - 238), will be appointed by the co-financing agency. Draft TOR for all major consultant
contracts to be financed by the Credit were discussed and agreed at appraisal. Training
programs will be based on clearly stated TOR and selection criteria.
4.8      All IDA financed contracts above US$100,000 would be subject to prior review, as would
all consultancy contracts, with individuals, above US$50,000. More than 85 percent of the credit will
be subject to prior review.
C. DISBURSEMENT
4.9      Overall, 41 percent of the total project cost will be covered by the proposed Credit. For
individual project components, assisted by the IDA, the Credit will be disbursed as in Table IV.2.
Table IV.2: IDA Disbursement Categories
Disbursement Category        IDA Amount           % of Expenditure
I(US million)            to be financed
Civil Works:
Widening/strengthening Km 238 -393   33.46       100% Foreign expenditures
Pilot Maintenance Contracts           266        50%
Consultant Services and Studies         5.42        100%
Goods                                   0.33        100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
Training                                0.05        100%
PPF Advance                             0.60        Amount due
Unallocated                             7.48
Total IDA                               50.00 
4.10   The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001, and the Credit Closing Date
will be March 31, 2002. An estimated schedule of disbursement of the proceeds from the Credit is set
out in Table IV.3. All disbursements will be fully documented to the satisfaction of the Association.
Payments against contracts for goods and civil works for amounts less than US$100,000, and for all
training, will be disbursed under Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Documents verifying expenditures
under the SOE procedures will retained for review by IDA supervision missions. To facilitate the
availability of funds for the Project, a Special Account would be established and maintained on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An initial deposit of US$1,500,000 will be replenished on the
basis of satisfactory documentary evidence, provided to IDA, of eligible payments made from the
account for goods and services required for the Project.



- 32 -
Table IV.3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursement (US$ million)
Fiscal Year Ending      Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement         Cumulative
(US$ million)           (US$ million)            Disbursement (%)
Fiscal Year 96
June 30, 1996                    1.8       1             1.8                         4
Fiscal Year 97
December 31, 1996       |        6.1       |             7.9                        16
June 30, 1997           |        6.1       |            14.0                        28
Fiscal Year 98
December 31, 1997                5.9       1            19.9                        40
June 30, 1998                    5.9       |            25.8                        52
Fiscal Year 99
December 31, 1998                5.9                    31.7                        63
June 30, 1999                    4.8                    36.5                        73
Fiscal Year 2000
December 31, 1999                2.7                    39.2                        78
June 30, 2000                    2.7                    41.9                        84
Fiscal Year 01
December 31, 2000                2.7                    44.6                        89
June 30, 2001                    2.7       1            47.3                        95
Fiscal Year 02
December 31, 2001               2.7        |            50.0              |        100
D. REPORTING AND AUDITING
4.11      Project accounts will be maintained by the Ministry of Public Works and Supplies for each
component of the project. For the Project the auditor will furnish the Association with certified copies
of the Project's financial statement for each year and a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have requested.
4.12      The audit provided by the auditor will make specific reference to the special accounts
operation and to expenditures made under the SOE procedures and will express a separate opinion on
these matters. The audited project accounts will be sent to the IDA not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, assurances were given that auditing of the project accounts
would be carried out by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA.
4.13      The implementing agency, the Roads Department, MOPWH, will be responsible for overall
Project reporting and will provide:
(a)     By January 1, of each year the audit report on the Project Accounts, including Special
Account and SOEs, for the previous fiscal year;
(b)     Quarterly progress reports and completion reports on all Project components;
(c)     Quarterly and annual reports of the consultants monitoring the maintenance contracts;
(d)     All reports produced by the consultants assisting MOPWH to update the road
inventory and HMMS; and



- 33 -
(e)    The annual reports of the Road Works Inspectorate and the Road Maintenance Levy
Fund.
E. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
4.14    Regular supervision of the project will be undertaken in accordance with the supervision
plan outlined in Annex 3. In the event that the proposed Third Highway Sector Project is approved
and implemented, it is expected that the supervision plans will be merged to ensure efficient and cost-
effective utilization of IDA resources. Annual meetings will be held with the Government to discuss
and agree the consistency of the road sector program with the Strategic Plan for the Sector.
4.15    A comprehensive mid-term review of the proposed Project is crucial in view of the
introduction of the routine maintenance contracts and the Road Works Inspectorate. The mid-term
review will:
*  assess progress on the major construction contracts
* undertake an in-depth review of the technical and financial experience derived from the private
sector maintenance contract and agree the modifications to the modalities for the second round
of maintenance contracts
* review the progress achieved toward the full funding of road maintenance needs
i review the implementation of the Strategic Plan
e  assess the effectiveness of the Road Works Inspectorate and changes in its role/functions that
are necessary to achieve its objectives.
4.16    It was agreed that a mid-term review covering the areas in para. 4.15 will be carried out
jointly with IDA no later than December 31, 1998. The Government shall prepare an evaluation
report and submit it to IDA at least one month before the mid-term review. The Project is expected to
be completed by September 30, 2001.



- 34 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. GENERAL
5.1      The strengthening and widening of the Nairobi - Mombasa road will substantially
improve road transport operations on the primary transport link between Kenya's main
production/consumption areas and the port of Mombasa. The project will provide the quality
of road link which is critical if Kenya is to succeed in its policy of economic growth and
diversification. Improving the capacity of the parallel rail system is important for low value
and bulk freight but rehabilitation and strengthening of the road route is essential for the
movement of higher value and time-sensitive commodities. Severe road transport operating
problems were generated during early 1993 when a significant part of the Sultan Hamud -
Mtito Andei section failed. Without the project, much of the rest of the road will inevitably fail
in the relatively near future, as the design life of the road has already been exceeded very
considerably.
5.2      The Project will also assist in strengthening road maintenance activities in Kenya
which is one of the critical elements to developing a sustainable road system. The private
sector will be introduced into the routine maintenance of the main paved network and basic
maintenance planning information and systems will be updated and upgraded.
B. TRAFFIC FLOWS: NAIROBI-MOMBASA ROAD
5.3      While the Nairobi-Mombasa road may not have the highest traffic flow in Kenya, in
terms of total traffic flow, it is certainly the most heavily trafficked road. The available
evidence suggests that the average daily flow of heavy commercial vehicles (three or more
axles) increased from about 200, in the early 1980's, to around 450 in the mid-1980's and to
almost 600 vehicles in the early 1990's. In the Nairobi direction almost 100 percent of the
heavy commercial vehicles are loaded (overloaded) and about 50 percent of trucks are loaded
in the Mombasa direction. The best estimates of average daily traffic, on the sections outside
the immediate urban and peri-urban areas of Nairobi and Mombasa, obtained from the most
recent traffic surveys, are summarized in Table V. 1.
Table V.1: Nairobi-Mombasa Road
(Average Daily Traffic)
Road Section        Km        Cars    Light   Medium   Heavy    Bus    Total
Goods   Goods   Goods            Traffic
Athi River - Machakos T.O    27 - 46  790    790     740      610     170    3100
- Hunters Lodge   46 - 159  280     530      210     590    100    1710
- Mtito Andei   159 - 238    270    410      220     590      80     1570
- Voi          238 - 337    250     380  J  220      590      90     1530
- Mariakani    337 - 462    280     410      270     590      130    1680
- Miritini     462 - 484    330     680      340     590     120    2060
Source: MOPWH and Mission estimates



- 35 -
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
5.4     The methodology used by MOPWH to appraise the economic benefits of road
projects was not changed from the early 1970's to 1994. The Transport and Road Research
Laboratory (TRRL) devised, in the early 1970's, a manual method based on their vehicle
operating cost research in Kenya (the basis of their Road Transport Investment Model, RTIM).
The inputs for this manual method were periodically updated but there was no attempt to
improve the analytical techniques nor to adopt computerized design/evaluation models such as
RTIM or the Highway Design Model (HDM). The results of the manual analysis undertaken
by MOWPH were often suspect, generating extremely high rates of economic return.
5.5     MOPWH was conscious of the limitations of its planning and evaluation tools and
requested IDA, through the PPF for the proposed Third Highway Sector Project, to install
HDM-III and provide training in its use. The installation and training is on-going, but progress
was rather delayed by the almost total lack of computer literacy among many of MOPWH's
engineers and economists. The appraisal of the proposed Nairobi-Mombasa Road
Rehabilitation Project was taken as the main case study for the training program. The analysis
was subsequently agreed with IDA.
Economic Analysis: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate
5.6     In concept, the economic analysis of the proposed project is relatively
straightforward; the principal benefits are generated by the change in vehicle operating costs,
resulting from the i lprovement in pavement conditions. Benefits increase over time as the
condition of the pavk ment will deteriorate if the project is not undertaken. There are also likely
to be road maintenanice cost savings as, without the project, MOPWH would have to undertake
frequent and substantial emergency patching and resealing programs, similar to the program of
early 1993.
5.7     One of the main objectives of the project is to widen the road to an adequate level for
the volume and type of traffic. HDMIII is not, however, well equipped to estimate the
economic benefits from the widening of the road from 6 meter (often reduced to less than 5.5
meter) to 7 meter with 2 meter shoulders. It is, however, accepted that the design standards of
the road are substandard for the present volume and distribution of traffic and the road is
perceived as being highly dangerous, especially at night. The likely benefits from the widening
are:
•  Reduction in vehicle operating costs as vehicles no longer have to use either the
shoulders or the very rough pavement edges when passing or overtaking
*  Reduction of pavement deterioration as the flow of heavy vehicles is no longer
concentrated in the center and edges of the carriageway.
*  Reduction in pavement edge damage, and thus reduced road maintenance costs.



- 36 -
* Improved road safety, especially at night when many of the heaviest vehicles use the
road and vehicles are often parked, without lights, on the carriageway because there
are no shoulders.
5.8     To provide an indication of the level of likely benefit from the investment in the
improvement of the Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate section, a cost-benefit analysis was
undertaken using HDMIII. The analysis concentrated entirely on the effect of the improvement
of pavement condition/strength on vehicle operating costs and maintenance costs and made no
assessment of; (i) the specific impact of the pavement widening; (ii) the economic benefits
from reduced vehicle accidents; nor (iii) the impact on overall economic development of a
major deterioration in Kenya's main link to the sea. The results of the analysis are thus likely
to underestimate significantly the overall benefits of the investment.
5.9     The results of the analysis indicates that the proposed investment in the improvement
of the Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate section is well justified and should be implemented as a
matter of priority, Table V.2. The full analysis is provided in Annex 6. The proposed
improvement was assessed not against the 'do-nothing' scenario of present maintenance levels
but against a scenario of full maintenance. This analysis was made as the 'do-nothing' would
not keep the road in a operational condition over the life of the proposed investment and is not,
therefore, a realistic alternative.
Table V.2: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Improvement: Economic Analysis
Benefits of Proposed Investment
FYRR (%)    NPV (US$ million)      ERR (S)
20.6             138.2             43.9
The First Year Rate of Return (FYRR) is often used as a guide to the optimum timing of
transport projects. A FYRR of 20.6%, well above the assumed opportunity cost of capital
(12%), indicates the benefit of early project implementation. The very high rate of economic
return is generated by the inadequacy of the existing pavement strength in relation to traffic
loading. The project was also compared with a minimum investment scenario of an immediate
overlay, costing K Sh 530 million (US$11.3 million). The incremental analysis indicated an
ERR of 23.4% for the additional project investment, without including the significant
maintenance, operating and safety benefits of the wider pavement and shoulders. Sensitivity
analysis was undertaken to assess the possible impact of changes in construction costs, a
substantial improvement in Kenya Railways freight capacity, and very slow economic growth.
The results of this analysis, reported in Annex 6, demonstrate that the economic viability of
project is not affected by plausible changes to the underlying parameters and assumptions.
Accident Analysis: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate
5.10    Road safety is a major problem in Kenya, accounting for an average of 2,000 deaths
a year. Police accident records for this section of road indicate that fatalities doubled in the
period 1989 - 1993. In 1993, 48 people were killed, 108 seriously injured and 200 slightly



- 37 -
injured. The accident records indicate that about 63 percent of the accidents were due to
mechanical failure (tires or wheels), driver error, loss of control or bad road surface conditions
(potholes, edge failure etc.). Excess speed and loss of control, due to road conditions, were
found to be primary accident factors although, along one stretch, collision with wild animals
was reported.
5.11     A detailed analysis of the location of accidents was undertaken and a number of
specific blackspots were identified for particular remedial action, especially the provision of
more road signs indicating bridges, hazard signs, and speed limits. At several of these
blackspots the pavement has been eroded to 5.5 meter and the road shoulders are damaged. In
these locations, vehicles brushing against each other, while passing, is a significant cause of
accidents (approximately 20 percent). The pavement widening and improved surface condition
should eliminate significant causes of accidents but, in view of driving standards and a possible
increase in vehicle speed, it would be unwise to quantify the overall value of accident cost
savings.
Economic Analysis: Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei
5.12     The EU is financing a full feasibility of the section, along with the detailed
engineering design. In view of the total failure of the road along certain parts of this section
during the rainy seasons of recent years, a very high economic rate of return is expected. A
preliminary analysis suggests that the economic benefits of reconstructing this section will be as
least as high as those for the Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate section, with a FYRR of over 20%,
and probably much higher.
Economic Analysis of Other Project Components
5.13     The other components of the project are extremely important for the development of
adequate and sustainable road maintenance in Kenya and, though the benefits are difficult to
quantify, there is very little doubt that the assistance is justified. Experience elsewhere, has
suggested that the introduction of routine maintenance under contract can reduce costs by 20
percent or more. Experience also suggests that, when both contract and force account
maintenance is used, the productivity of force account maintenance increases substantially.
Such experience is not universal, however, and the likely cost savings in the Kenyan
environment will not be known until the completion of the pilot project.
Poverty Impact
5.14     The project will have only a marginal direct impact on poverty although some
unskilled employment will be created during the construction period. The project will,
however, have a very substantial and pervasive indirect impact on poverty through its
facilitation of faster economic growth and export diversification by safeguarding the quality of
Kenya's primary access route to the sea.



- 38 -
D. PROJECT RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
5.15    Previous Bank assisted projects in the Kenya road sector have generally achieved
their physical objectives and there is little doubt that the proposed project will result in a major
improvement to operating conditions on the Nairobi-Mombasa road. The main problem with
previous investments has been that either the improvements have not been sustained and the
benefits have been progressively reduced by subsequent inadequate road maintenance, or that
inadequate maintenance has resulted in effective disinvestment elsewhere in the network.
There is, at the present time, increasing recognition of the critical need for road maintenance,
reflected in the introduction of the Road Maintenance Levy Fund, but it is possible that this
priority may change, Government will find other funding needs and road maintenance will
again receive inadequate funding. This would be unlikely to affect the Nairobi-Mombasa Road
as badly as other roads, as MOPWH has generally concentrated its available maintenance
resources on the core paved network (as shown by the previous use of its toll funds). The
overall effect would be, however, a further decline in the general condition of the classified
network.
5.16    This project must be viewed within the context of the Strategic Plan for the Sector
and the proposed Third Highway Sector Project. Progressively increasing funding for road
maintenance has been agreed with Government as part of preparation for this project and is
detailed in its Letter of Sector Policy, Annex 8. Further support to the sector, through the
proposed the Highway Sector Project, will be linked to the achievement of these agreed funding
levels and Government's demonstrated commitment to the Strategy. There is general
agreement among other major donors to support the road sector, through the Strategy, and to
link their support to increased road maintenance as dissatisfaction with under-funding of road
maintenance is widespread. There is now increased cooperation among donors with a donor
coordinator, funded by the EU, which offers very positive encouragement for this approach.
5.17    The undertaking of technical performance reviews by the Road Works Inspectorate is
a new concept for MOPWH and its success cannot be guaranteed. The maintenance audit, both
financial and technical, associated with the Minor Roads Program has, however, been
successful and has been extended to all districts associated with MRP irrespective of whether
supported by donor or GOK funding. While there can be no guarantee that the Inspectorate
will succeed, increased awareness of the need to ensure the cost effective use of maintenance
funding, by both GOK and donors, will provide an important constituency of support. The
Twinning arrangement will assist in the initial establishment of the Inspectorate and the periodic
visits of the Twinning partner will help to ensure quality control, identify the effectiveness of
the unit and pinpoint any changes required. The role and effectiveness of the Inspectorate will
be a key item at the Mid-Term Review and it is almost inevitable that it will feature as a major
item at the annual Road Donors meeting held with MOPWH.



- 39 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1     At negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a)    The carrying out of a mid-term review of the project by December 31, 1998
(para. 4.16).
(b)    Submission of annual reports on the Road Maintenance Levy Fund and the
Road Works Inspectorate (paras. 2.25, 3.13 and 4.13(e)).
(c)    Establishment of a Special Account (para. 4.10).
(d)    Tender documents, including suitable environment protection measures, for the
strengthening/widening works (para. 4.2).
(e)    Contents of the Letter of Sector Policy (para. 1.34).
(f)    Annual discussion and agreement on consistency of the road program with the
Strategic Plan (para. 4.14).
(g)    The Borrower to have the Project Accounts, including Special Account and
SOEs, audited by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and the reports sent
to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year (paras. 4.11 and 4.12).
B. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2     The following actions will be required for project effectiveness:
(a)    Establishment of the Road Works Inspectorate, including appointment of the
SSE and at least 2 SEs in a manner acceptable to IDA (para. 2.25).
(b)    Approval by the Borrower of the Strategic Plan for the Roads Sector (para.
1.34).
C. RECOMMENDATION
6.3     Based on the above assurances and agreements, the Project is suitable for a
Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 34.0 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with forty years maturity, including ten years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS
COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
Contract Sections and Costs
1.    The use of private contractors to undertake the routine maintenance of paved roads in
Kenya has not been previously attempted, although private contractors have been used
extensively to undertake periodic maintenance. The Ministry of Public Works and Housing
believes that the approach could assist to provide the level and quality of road maintenance
required, but wishes to have the benefits of the approach demonstrated and to determine the
optimal terms and conditions for such contracts prior to a major shift from force account to
contract maintenance. In common with road agencies in many other countries, MOPWH
believes that a role may still exist for force account maintenance units, if such units are
provided with the resources and incentives required for high productivity, especially for rapid
response to emergency situations.
2.    To test the contract approach and its benefits vis-a-vis force account maintenance a
pilot contract maintenance component has been proposed for inclusion in the Nairobi-Mombasa
Road Rehabilitation Project. Five road sections have been identified on the Northern Corridor
route to be included in the pilot project. These sections cover a fairly broad spectrum of paved
roads in Kenya, although all are in relatively good condition and will not require periodic
maintenance or rehabilitation within the proposed contract period. All the sections are located
along the Northern Corridor and thus traffic flows, especially of heavy trucks, are high. It is
proposed that routine maintenance on three of the sections will be contracted out to the private
sector while maintenance on the other two sections will be undertaken by force account,
utilizing the Provincial resealing units. The details of the sections are summarized below:
Road Section          Road No.    Kin   Road Width       Maintenance
(meter)       Proposed
Malaba - Turbo                 A104       94         7         Force account
Turbo - Timboroa               A104       94         7            Contract
Longonot T.O. - Westlands      A104       56     7 + Dual         Contract
Westlands - Machakos T.O.    A104/A109    50     7 + Dual      Force account
Bachuma Gate - Mazeras         A109       80         7            Contract
While all the sections are in reasonably good condition it is expected that maintenance demand
will vary from section to section, especially for such important activities as pothole repair and
shoulder maintenance.
3.    It is proposed that this pilot maintenance project will be undertaken over a four year
period. The initial contracts will only have a two year duration, however, as it is expected that
modifications in the contracts may be necessary to take into account the lessons gained from the
first contracts. The base maintenance costs (before price and physical contingencies) for each
of the sections are summarized below:



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Road Maintenance Costs
(K Sh million)
Road Section         Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
Malaba - Turbo                12.9      8.6       9.5      10.3     41.3
Turbo - Timboroa              18.4     12.3      12.3      13.5      56.5
Longonot T.O. - Westlands     15.2     10.2      11.2      12.3     48.9
Westlands - Machakos T.O.      7.8      5.2       6.2       6.8     26.0
Bachuma Gate - Mazeras        23.5     15.7      15.7      17.3      72.2
The higher maintenance costs in the first year of the contracts reflects the costs of remedying
previous neglect of routine maintenance, particularly on the road shoulders.
Contract Terms
4.    Routine maintenance contracting, except for the simple lengthman system, has not been
undertaken in Kenya and thus no standard contract documents are available. MOPWH
currently uses FIDIC IV but the contracts will be based on the Bank's standard bidding
documents for smaller works, modified to meet the requirements of routine maintenance. A
short Technical Assistance assignment is being provided through the PPF to assist MOPWH
draw up detailed tender documents for each of the sections.
5.    The tender documents will contain an estimated Bill of Quantities which will be the
basis of tender evaluation. Payments for some of the items will be based on the maintenance of
certain features (e.g. vegetation control, culvert cleaning etc.) over a specified period of time,
while for other activities, such as pothole patching, payment will be based on the quantity of
actual work performed.
Contract Supervision
6.     The contracts will be supervised by the Provincial Engineers (Paved Roads) supported
by the technical advisers of the Twinning road agency. The Provincial Engineers will be
responsible for detailing the work required during each period and for certifying that the work
is satisfactorily carried out.
Contract Monitoring
7.    If MOPWH is to obtain maximum benefit from this pilot project, it is essential that the
contracts are closely monitored in a manner by which the greatest learning can be obtained and
applied as the basis for future MOPWH policy. The monitoring should be undertaken by an
institution which is independent of the implementation and supervision of the actual contracts.
It is, therefore, proposed to select an independent research institution to carry out the
monitoring over the four year period of the pilot project. The research institution will be
expected to undertake the following activities:



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
*  Review the private sector and equivalent force account contracts and assess the scope
of works for adequacy and comprehensiveness;
*  Review and compare the quantity and quality of the work output
*  Review and compare the funding and disbursements procedures
*  Review and compare the supervision and procedures for issuing work instructions
*  Review and compare the resources and technologies employed to execute the
maintenance works
*  Analyze the costs (labor, equipment, materials and overheads) of the two delivery
systems
*  Identify factors (contractual, financial, managerial and supervisory) affecting delivery
of both systems and recommend remedies to identified problems, including
modifications to contracts terms and conditions.
8.     The monitoring assignment will consist of an initial baseline survey of the condition of
the road sections and establishment of the relevant mechanisms to determine the full costs of
the force account operations, especially a realistic overhead element. Following the initial
survey the assignment would be limited to periodic monitoring of conditions, inspection of
works in progress, compilation of relevant data, preparation of reports and discussions with
MOP WH. In view of the nature of the assignment, it is expected that the research institution
would, if not Kenyan, liaise with a local institution to collect much of the field data. Quarterly
and annual reports would be produced by the monitoring team and would form the basis for
subsequent modifications to the pilot, particularly when the second round of contracts are
awarded for Years 3 and 4.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ROAD WORKS INSPECTORATE
COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
Objectives
1.    The Roads Department has recognized the need to establish an inspectorate within the
Ministry to inspect road works during both construction and maintenance to ensure efficiency,
cost effectiveness and accountability in all aspects of the Road Department's activities. The
Inspectorate will be empowered to review road activities at all levels of the Ministry's
organization: Headquarters, Provincial and District Level.
Duties
2.     The duties of the Inspectorate will include, but are not limited to the following:
-  Examine and report on procurement practices, employed within the Ministry of Works
and Housing to award road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance contracts;
-  Undertake technical audits on selected road work activities, both force account and
contract, to determine the quality and cost-effectiveness of the work, adherence to
specifications and work/design plans, the administrative procedures employed, and the
quality of supervision;
*  Examine and report on the adherence by Provincial and District Roads organizations to
agreed work programs and the quality of work implementation;
*  Identify impediments to productivity and advise on actions required to improve the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of road works undertaken in Kenya and their
management; and
*  Prepare an annual report on the Inspectorate's activities on the above.
Powers of the Inspectorate
3.    In the exercise of its duties the Inspectorate shall, in liaison with the Chief Engineer
(Roads), have free access, upon request, to the following:
* Any Ministry of Public Works and Housing office or works site;
*  Any relevant open, confidential or secret information held in the Ministry's
Headquarters, Provincial or District offices, including reviews of contracts and
procurement;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Test results and, if necessary, testing facilities and equipment through the Material
Department of the Ministry.
Organization and Staffing
4.     The Inspectorate will be located within the Roads Department. The Inspectorate will
be functionally headed by the Chief Superintending Engineer (Design and Inspectorate) and will
thus be independent of the Paved Roads, Unpaved Roads and Construction Branches or any
other Branch of the Roads Department which are actively involved in the implementation or
supervision of road works, either construction or maintenance.
5.     For the purposes of its day-to-day activities the Inspectorate will be headed by a senior
Superintending Engineer, SSE (RWI). Under the SSE (RWI) there will be, at least, two
experienced Superintending Engineers (SE) and relevant support staff.
Reporting
6.     All reports of the Inspectorate will be made to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Public Works and Housing with copies to the Chief Engineer (Roads) and the officers
responsible for the works or activity inspected.
External Training and Support
7.    It is recognized that the effective implementation of the Inspectorate will not be without
difficulties as it could be interpreted, by those affected, as an internal policing function.
Training of the inspectors will thus be necessary in an environment in which performance
auditing has become an accepted part of the road agency function. The training and support
necessary for the establishment of the Inspectorate could thus not be efficiently met by
conventional consulPants. A twinning arrangement is, therefore, proposed with a foreign road
agency which alrea(.y operates within a performance auditing environment. The twinning
partner would train the Inspectorate engineers within its own organization and provide short-
term technical experts to assist in the initial establishment of the Inspectorate. The twinning
partner would then make periodic follow-up visits to monitor the work of the Inspectorate,
assess the quality of the work, and work with the Inspectorate to overcome any problems
encountered.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
SUPERVISION STRATEGY AND STAFF INPUT
BORROWERS CONTRIBUTION TO SUPERVISION
1.    The Borrower's supervision activities would be carried out by the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing. The supervisory functions would involve the following:
(a)    Submission to IDA of quarterly progress reports on all Project components;
(b)    Submission to IDA of all consultants' reports produced in connection with
Project activities;
(c)    The audits of project accounts, the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures will be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year;
(d)    By June 30, 1998, MOPWH will provide to IDA, for its approval, a plan for
carrying out a Mid-Term Review by December 31, 1998 in consultation with
IDA. Thereafter, Government will promptly take all actions recommended as a
result of the review that are required to achieve project objectives; and
(e)    MOPWH will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions and for providing information required by missions.
Bank Supervision
2.    In addition to the regular supervision missions to be carried out by IDA, in accordance
with the schedule set out below, IDA staff would spend time at Headquarters dealing with
correspondence, reviewing and approving procurement documents, disbursement requests,
quarterly reports and audited accounts. The amount of time required for supervision of the
project in Washington is estimated to be as follows:
Project Year 1      3 staffweeks
Year 2       6 staffweeks
Year 3       4 staffweeks
Year 4       3 staffweeks
Year 5       3 staffweeks
Year 6       3 staffweeks
Five staffweeks will be also required for the mid-term review with an additional five staffweeks
involved in the final supervision and preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
Fiscal Year    Approximate           Activity             Expected Skills        Staff Input
Date                                                            (weeks)
FY 1995/96     April 1996       Launch Mission         Road Engineer                  7.0
Maintenance Specialist
Procurement Specialist
FY 1996/97*    October 1996     Supervision Mission    Road Engineer                  6.0
Maintenance Specialist
March 1997      Supervision Mission    Road Engineer                   2.0
FY 1997/98*    October 1997     Supervision Mission    Road Engineer                  2.0
May 1998        Supervision Mission    Road Engineer                   4.0
Maintenance Specialist
FY 1998/99*    December 1998   Mid-Term Review         Road Engineer                  7.0
Maintenance Specialist
Transport Economist
June 1999        Supervision Mission   Road Engineer                   2.0
FY 1999/00*    December 2000   Supervision Mission     Road Engineer                  4.0
l___ _ _ _ __ _ __ __  _  __   __   _    Maintenance  Specialist
June 2000        Supervision Mission   Road Engineer                   2.0
FY 2000/01*   December 2000 T Supervision Mission      Road Engineer                  2.0
FY 2001/02*   July 2001         Preparation Mission    Road Engineer                  6.0
l               | for ICR                Economist
* Missions will be combined with proposed Third Highway Sector Project



ANNEX 4
SUMMARY OF MONITORING INDICATORS FOR THE
PROJECT
Major Activities            Expected Impact         Indicator of Achievement of    Timing
Project Objectives            Target
Widening/Strengthening of   Substantial improvement   Tender evaluation            July 1996
Mtito Andei-Bachuma Gate  in road conditions:
Nairobi-Mombasa Road                                Tender award                   Sep 1996
Reduced vehicle
operating costs         Completion of construction     Dec 1999
Improved road safety
Road Maintenance           Improved delivery of      Baseline monitoring           Apr 1996
Strengthening               routine road maintenance
Award first-round contracts   July 1996
Increased participation of
private sector          Revised contract conditions    Jan 1998
Award second-round contracts:   July 1998
increased no. of bids
MOPWH adoption of contract    Dec 1998
maintenance strategy
Road Works Inspectorate    Cost-effective road      Establishment of Inspectorate  Apr 1996
maintenance
First Annual Report           Oct 1997
Cost and performance
accountability          Reduction in unit maintenance    End 1998
costs/improved quality
Other Institutional Support  Improved maintenance   Completion of road inventory   Dec 1997
and investment planning
within MOPWH            Introduction of revised        Jan 1998
maintenance planning and
budget allocation system



ANNEX 5
PREVIOUS WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE ROAD
SECTOR
Loan      Credit No.       Amount             Project Components            Date
Year                     (US$ million)                                   Completed
1960    Ln. 256-KE            5.6       Feeder Roads (910km)               1964
1965    Cr. 70-KE             4.5       Trunk Roads (315km)                 1969
1965   Cr. 77-KE              3.0       Tea Roads (1,400km)                 1970
1967    Cr. 104-KE            5.3       Sugar Roads (820 km)                1971
1968    Cr. 120-KE           10.7       Trunk Roads (460km)                 1972
1969    Ln. 639-KE           23.5       Trunk Roads (172km)                 1975
Feeder Roads (810km)
Settlement Roads (650km)
1970    Cr. 224-KE           12.6       Highway Maintenance Project        1979
1972   Cr. 276-KE            22.0       Trunk Roads (71km)                  1979
Feeder Roads (1153km)
Settlement Roads (429km)
1973    Ln. 932-KE           29.0       Dual carriageway (12km)             1981
Feeder Roads (603km)
1976    Ln. 1305-KE           8.0       Rural Access Road Program          1985
Cr. 651-KE
1979    Ln. 1684-KE          90.0       First Highway Sector Project        1987
1984    Ln. 2409-KE          90.0*      Second Highway Sector Project      1993
SF-017-KE
* Restructured in 1987 to US$ 45 million



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ECONOMIC EVALUATION: MTITO ANDEI - BACHUMA GATE
Economic costs: K Sh million
Project                -Costs without Project                               Costs with Project                       NET
Year    Capital        Road         Vehicle    Journey      Total        Road          Vehicle    Journey      Total      ECONOMIC
Costs     Maintenance    Operation     Time                 Maintenance    Operation      Time                   BENEFITS
1996     393.0                                                                                                               -393.0
1997     983.0                                                                                                               -983.0
1998     599.0                                                                                                               -599.0
1999                   122.0        3001.0      357.0      3480.0         18.0         2625.0      343.0      2986.0          494.0
2000                   430.0         3425.0      381.0      4236.0        18.0         2800.0      360.0      3178.0         1058.0
2001                   329.0         3789.0      409.0      4527.0        18.0         2988.0      378.0      3384.0         1143.0
2002                   321.0         4215.0      442.0      4978.0        18.0         3189.0      398.0      3605.0         1373.0
2003                    197.0        4701.0      481.0      5379.0        18.0         3404.0      419.0      3841.0         1538.0
2004                    196.0        5266.0      528.0      5990.0        18.0         3634.0      441.0      4093.0         1897.0
2005                   248.0         5867.0      578.0      6693.0        18.0         3880.0      463.0      4361.0         2332.0
2006                   211.0         6474.0      627.0      7312.0        66.0         4143.0      487.0      4696.0         2616.0
2007                   231.0         7074.0      676.0      7981.0       570.0         4412.0      513.0      5495.0         2486.0
2008                   244.0         7631.0      719.0      8594.0        18.0         4567.0      538.0      5123.0         3471.0
2009                   204.0         8171.0      759.0      9134.0        18.0         4877.0      566.0      5461.0         3673.0
2010                   298.0         8716.0      800.0      9814.0        18.0         5208.0      596.0      5822.0         3992.0
2011                   190.0         9283.0      842.0     10315.0        18.0         5563.0      627.0      6208.0         4107.0
2012   _________       248.0         9897.0      886.0     11031.0        18.0         5942.0      659.0      6619.0         4412.0
2013                   251.0        10544.0      933.0     11728.0        18.0         6349.0      694.0      7061.0         4667.0
NPV          IRR            FYRR
(12%)         (%)           (%)
K Shmn        8291          43.9          20.6                                                                                           X
US$nmn        138.2                                                                                                                      ON



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
MTITO ANDEI - BACHUMA GATE
Base Case
The base case analysis, shown in Table 1, is based on the assumption of full routine
maintenance being undertaken on the existing road, with all potholes and cracking patched.
The economic returns from the investment are very high:
Net Present Value (12%): US$138.2 million
Economic Rate of Return: 43.9%
The maintenance undertaken cannot prevent a substantial increase in the roughness of the road
and consequently unit vehicle operating costs rise considerably. By the year 2002, or
thereabouts, the roughness on the road has increased to such an extent that the pavement can be
considered as having failed completely. In view of the fact that the road would not be allowed
to fail completely, the analysis is really a question of not whether major intervention is required
but when the intervention should take place. The First Year Rate of Return (FYRR) of 20.6%
indicates that the proposed intervention should be undertaken as soon as possible.
A more detailed ec 'nomic analysis indicates that each of the sub-sections of the road are
justified for improvement, Table 2.
Table 2: Economic Analysis by Road Section: Base Case
Road Section           Length (kim)     ERR (%)
Mtito Andei - Tsavo               49.8           49.1
Tsavo - Manyani                   11.0           35.1
Manyani - Voi                     38.3           29.6
Voi - Junction (C 105)             4.9           35.0
C105 - Maungu                     25.7           45.7
Maungu - Bachuma Gate             25.2           49.2
Minimum Investment
The base case assumes full routine maintenance but no major strengthening of the road. An
overlay of the existing road would reduce the rate of road deterioration and could be
considered as a substitute for the proposed investment. The overlay would be, however, only a
partial substitute as the operating, maintenance and safety benefits of the pavement and
shoulder widening would not be obtained. Unfortunately, HDMIII inadequately encompasses
the benefits from road widening and thus the analysis relates only to the differential impact of
the overlay and the proposed improvement on pavement conditions. The incremental economic



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
analysis of the project, compared with the overlay scenario, indicates that the additional
investment is justified, despite the under-estimation of the benefits, with an ERR of 23.4%.
All sections of the proposed project are justified in the analysis, except the Manyani - Voi
section which only generates an ERR of 8.9%. This ERR is, however, considered acceptable
in view of the underestimation of the widening benefits. The FYRR of the incremental
investment is also low, 5.6%, but again is considered marginally acceptable in view of the
underestimation of benefits.
Sensitivity Analysis
(a)   Impact of Changes in Costs and Benefits: Conventional sensitivity analysis was
undertaken on the economic rate of return, on the basis of changes in investment costs and
benefits: Table 3.
Table 3: Base Case: ERR Sensitivity Analysis
Investment Costs
No Change    + 25%       +50%
Investment     No Change        43.9        38.5       34.6
Benefits          - 25%         37.2        32.5       29.1
- 50%         29.2        25.3       22.3
The investment still generates a satisfactory ERR when investment costs are increased by 50
percent and benefits are reduced by 50 percent. The ERR would be reduced to 12 percent, and
the NPV to zero, only if construction costs were to increase by 100 percent, benefits were
reduced by 50 percent and the project life reduced to 10 years. This type of sensitivity analysis
is, however, mechanistic and does not indicate the impact of potential changes in Kenya's
transport and economic system.
(b)    Revival of Kenya Railways Capacity: If the proposed Railways Restructuring Project
is successful, Kenya Railways freight capacity should increase to almost 4 million tonnes.
Approximately one million tonnes of freight could be diverted away from the Nairobi-Mombasa
road, equivalent to about 100 heavy trucks per day. This diversion would reduce the vehicle
operating cost benefits of the proposed road investment in two ways: (i) the total vehicle flow
would be reduced; and, (ii) the rate of road deterioration would be slowed and thus the rate of
increase in vehicle operating costs would decline.
The effect of a revival in the freight carrying capacity of Kenya Railways is to reduce the ERR
for the project to 38.2% and the FYRR to 14.6%. The project should thus still have a very
high priority, irrespective of the proposed Kenya Railways Project. In terms of the
incremental analysis with the minimum investment, the ERR is reduced to 18.7%, which is still
acceptable.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
(c)    Slow Economic Growth in Kenya: The base case scenario is based on an average
annual growth in traffic of 6 percent. This rate of growth assumes that economic growth
returns to earlier levels and that the growth is export oriented, thus using the Nairobi-
Mombasa corridor. Economic growth rates are very difficult to predict and growth has been
very low in Kenya over the last few years. It was thus decided to test the sensitivity of the
analysis to very low rates of growth in traffic, one percent per annum.
The impact of very slow economic and traffic growth is, not unnaturally, to reduce
substantially the economic benefits. The overall economic returns are still high, however, with
an ERR of 34.2% and a FYRR of 15.7%. The project does become marginal with respect to
the overlay option with an ERR of 10.9%. This ERR is, however, underestimated by the
exclusion of the road widening benefits.
(d)    Slow Growth and Revived Kenya Railways: Under the base case analysis, total
traffic on the Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road is forecast to
rise to over 3,900 vehicles per day, by the year 2013. If there were to be very low growth in
Kenya and a revival of the freight capacity of Kenya Railways, the combined effect would be a
very dramatic fall in the level of future traffic on the road; the flow in 2013 would be only
one-third of the base case flow i.e. 1,300 vehicles per day.
Road conditions on the existing road are such, however, that the investment is still justified
with an ERR of 29.5% and a FYRR of 12.0% even with one percent annual traffic growth and
the diversion of a million tonnes of freight to the railway. In terms of the incremental analysis
to the overlay option, however, the project becomes marginal with an ERR of only 7.0%, but
this excludes the accident cost and maintenance cost savings which would result from the road
widening. The probability of both slow economic growth and a revival of Kenya Railways is,
perhaps, remote; if Government adopts the type of policies necessary to promote a revival of
the railways, relatively rapid economic growth is also probable.
(e)    Assessment of Project Sensitivity: In view of the strategic importance of the Nairobi-
Mombasa road, its present condition and traffic, and residual structural strength, it is not
surprising that the economic analysis generates very high rates of return. The viability of the
project is also robust to the range of possible changes in the underlying parameters of the
analysis and even in the worst case scenario, acceptable economic results are generated.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HOUSING
PROPOSED TWINNING WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Statement of Intent
1.1    The Government of Kenya (GOK) is receiving assistance from the International
Development Association (IDA) for development of the road network. The assistance includes
components for: (i) developing private sector contracting for the routine maintenance of paved
roads; and (ii) establishing and institutionalizing a Road Works Inspectorate within the
Department of Roads.
1.2    The introduction of routine maintenance contracting forms part of MOPWH's policy of
promoting cost-effective road maintenance and increasing the role of the private sector is in
accordance with GOK's liberalization policies. The Inspectorate is required to ensure cost-
effective road maintenance as well as transparency and accountability for the use of road
maintenance funds, most of which are now derived directly from road-users.
1.3    The Roads Department has had some limited previous experience with a works
inspectorate but has had no experience with routine maintenance contracting. The Department
of Roads would, therefore, like to enter into an agreement with a highly competent Road
Agency whose responsibilities are similar and which already undertakes routine maintenance by
contract and has a developed internal inspectorate function.
1.4    A Twinning arrangement between the Department of Roads and the Road Agency is
proposed as the best means of transferring technology, knowledge and experience for these new
activities to the Roads Department. The Twinning arrangement would include study visits by
officers of the Roads Department to the Road Agency, short secondments and training courses
within country of the Road Agency. The Road Agency would also provide officers to assist the
Roads Department to establish the routine maintenance contracts and Inspectorate and to
supervise and monitor their progress through periodic visits.
1.5    This arrangement, for the purpose of establishing and monitoring the progress of the
activities, is expected to last approximately four years. The Roads Department hopes,
however, that this Twinning would develop into a longer-term relationship, covering other
functions and responsibilities within the road sector, that would be mutually beneficial to both
organizations.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
2.    Description of Proposed Twinning
2.1   The Roads Department has received much conventional technical assistance and, while
realizing that such assistance may still be appropriate for certain assignments, believes that a
change in emphasis is necessary. The Roads Department views the twinning arrangement as a
means of:
*  Establishing firm links with an organization with a similar role to its own for the
purposes of sharing experience and knowledge on a long-term, continuing basis.
*  Directly learning from the experience of the twinning partner on the implementation
and operations of road maintenance contracting and inspectorate/performance auditing
functions.
a  Developing a flexible arrangement for the provision of technical advice and assistance,
on terms mutually beneficially for both parties, without the constraints and rigidities
imposed by normal consultancy contracts.
2.2   The Roads Department would like the Twinning arrangement to provide the following
elements and activities:
•  Training: the twinning agency would arrange study tours, short courses and other
programs to provide appropriate training for Roads Department staff in the
implementation and supervision of maintenance contracts and inspectorate functions.
-  Secondment: the twinning agency would provide the opportunity for the Roads
Department to second staff for limited periods in order to gain practical experience of
maintenance contracting and inspectorate work.
3  Technical assistance: the twinning agency would provide short-term experts to work
closely with senior engineers of the Roads Department to develop, implement and
supervise maintenance contracting and the Works Inspectorate.
*  Technical advice and information: the two agencies would share information and
technology in a manner beneficial to both organizations.
The Roads Department hopes that the arrangement with the Twinning agency can be
implemented in a flexible manner under which progress would be periodically reviewed and the
twinning program modified in the light of experience, priorities and circumstances. It would
be hoped, for example, that the Twinning Agency would participate in the annual Road Donors
seminar organized by the Ministry as well as in the proposed road maintenance seminars.
Role of the Twinning Partners
2.3    The Roads Department will provide counterparts, support staff, office space, furniture,
as well as accommodation and transport expenses for staff of the Road Agency while they are



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
within Kenya and will generally provide an atmosphere which is conducive for the development
and implementation of the proposed program.
2.4    The Road Agency will arrange, after discussion and agreement with the Roads
Department, for training, study visits and hands-on learning in the Agency's country. In
addition the Road Agency will provide technically qualified staff with relevant practical
experience to work in Kenya for short periods, as agreed, for developing and implementing the
project components and to provide advice on their modification or extension.
Initial Twinning Inputs
2.5    Technical assistance: The following technical assistance requirements are initially
envisaged under the twinning arrangement:
*  Road maintenance/contracting expert: an initial 3 month assignment, to be followed by
a further 3 visits, spread over three years: total 6 person-months.
*  Road works inspector/performance audit expert: an initial 4 month assignment, to be
followed by a further 2 month assignment after six months, and 3 subsequent
monitoring missions over the following three years: total 9 person-months.
e  Maintenance systems expert: an initial 3 month assignment, to be followed by a
monitoring/development mission: total 4 person-months.
2.6    Training: The Road Agency will assign a training coordinator to arrange a program of
training, field visits, secondments for Roads Department Staff. It is expected that initially there
will be the following training visits:
e  Roads Works Inspectorate: one training group of 5 engineers, for a period of up to a
month.
*  Routine Maintenance Contracting: two training groups of 4 - 5 engineers, for a period
of two - three weeks.
A study tour of about two weeks is also envisaged for the most senior engineers in the Roads
Department, to discuss and review experience of both performance auditing and maintenance
contracting
3.     Funding of the Proposed Twinning Arrangement
3.1    The funding of the twinning arrangement will be met from the assistance provided by
the IDA for the Nairobi-Mombasa Road Rehabilitation Project. The funding will cover
technical assistance fees and expenses, the costs of training (including fees for the training
coordinator), and all other costs necessary for the successful implementation of the program.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 9
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
1.0   STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
1.1   Road transport is the dominant mode of transport in Kenya. It represents 72
percent of the total value of output for the domestic surface transport sector. However,
roads and road transport services are characterised by high cost and low quality services
mainly due to the substantial backlog of road maintenance.
1.2   The recently concluded Expenditure Priorities Report (June, 1994) indicates that
3.9% of the classified road network is in good condition, 12.5% is in fair condition while
83.6% is in poor or very bad condition. Delays in routine and periodic maintenance will
mean that more and more of these roads will have to be either abandoned or completely
rebuilt at high costs to the economy.
1.3   The Government has developed a dual strategy to correct the present situation and
provide the road network necessary to sustain economic and social development in
Kenya. First, the Government through the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPW&H) is to introduce an activity-oriented maintenance, rehabilitation,
reconstruction and possibly upgrading programme for the road network. This will be
implemented through the Strategic Plan which will also contain the policy framework
within which the strategy will be implemented. Secondly, the government will work out
the formula and modalities for the establishment of an appropriate Institutional
framework to manage Kenya's road network. This Letter of Sectoral Policy briefly
outlines the most pressing reform requirements and the Government's intentions for
meeting them.
1.4   The Government is carrying out studies in 7 key areas which require attention.
The areas:
(a)   Institutional arrangements
(b)   Expenditure Priorities
(c)   Delivery Options for Road Maintenance
(d)   Financing of Road Maintenance
(e)   Equipment Ownership and Maintenance Policies
(f)   Staffing and Training
(g)   Axle Load Controls
2.0 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
2.1  In Kenya, like in most Sub-Saharan Africa countries, roads are managed by
Government departments: classified roads are under the Roads Department of



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 9
MOPW&H, roads in the national parks are under the Kenya Wildlife Services (KWS),
other roads are under local authorities and the Forest Department.
2.2   It is difficult to co-ordinate the activities of all these agencies, to determine their
financial requirements, and to address the problems of the road sector in a co-ordinated
manner. Moreover, the Government recognises that the value of roads is significantly
higher than that of railways and the airline, hence roads are truly a big business. There is,
therefore, need for them to be well-managed, with access to adequate funds, to ensure the
large sums of money invested in roads produce value-for-money.
2.3   The Government, with the assistance of the European Union, is preparing to
undertake a Study on the appropriate Institutional framework within which the road
sector will be managed. The study will commence around June 1995 and be completed
by June 1996. It will address itself to the autonomy of the institution, its mandate with
respect to road sector co-ordination problems, funding, motivation of staff as well as
improved operational efficiency. The recommendations of the study will be implemented
upon approval by the Government.
3.0   EXPENDITURE PRIORITIES
3.1   A recent study which was carried out with the assistance of the World Bank on
Expenditure Priorities indicated that benefit/cost ratios for maintenance works are high
when compared with the ratios obtained for capital projects. This is in line with the
general wisdom that the maintenance of an existing road system is more beneficial than
expanding the network. The Government will, therefore, concentrate its financial
resources on the regular maintenance of the present network. Special attention will
particularly be paid to the heavily trafficked roads in both the paved and unpaved system.
All maintenance and rehabilitation activities with benefit/cost ratios equal to or greater
than 2.5 will receive priority. Currently, the Highway maintenance System (HMMS) is
being used to address these roads but more acceptable funds allocation criteria are being
considered.
3.2   The Expenditure Priority Study also suggested that although upgrading of roads is
an expensive strategy, there are certain cases when upgrading is still preferable rather
than regravelling or carrying out unattainable maintenance. For instance, upgrading from
gravel to bitumen is the strategy of the highest priority at any traffic level in excess of
300 vehicles per day (vpd). Economic analysis also suggested that it is economically
viable to upgrade an earth road to gravel standard once traffic exceeds 100 vpd. The
Government will concentrate the use of its resources to upgrade roads which are
economically justifiable, in the light of the returns on maintenance and rehabilitation.
However, in certain circumstances, important social and other considerations shall be
taken into account in its allocation of funds.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 9
4.0 DELIVERY OPTIONS FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE
4.1   Road maintenance works under the Roads Department of MOPW&H are executed
by the Paved and Unpaved Roads Maintenance Branches. Periodic works are executed
by contract (70 percent) or force account (30 percent) operations which are either
equipment-intensive or labour-intensive. Routine maintenance works are currently being
carried out by force account units of the department. These units are highly equipment-
intensive. Thus, the units have become extremely expensive and inefficient leaving large
numbers of personnel idle when fuel, materials and spare parts become unavailable. The
Government has taken steps to increase road maintenance funding and thus provide the
necessary inputs for these units. In addition, through Civil Service Reform Programme,
the staffing norms are being addressed.
4.2   Kenya has been a pioneer in Sub-Saharan Africa for the construction and
maintenance of unpaved rural roads using labour-based techniques. This has been done
through the Rural Access Roads Programme (RARP, 1974-1986) and the Minor Roads
Programme (MRP, 1986 to date). The Programmes have been successful but their
approach does not provide a complete solution to the rural roads problems.
4.3   The Government has, within the ongoing MRP, developed the Roads 2000
Strategy for the unpaved road network which attempts to resolve the problems and
constraints which were not addressed by RARP and MRP. The strategy, which combines
labour and tractor-based maintenance, offers the prospect of a major improvement over
the present system. It has been successfully applied in two districts and the Government
is seeking funds to extend its application nationally. In accepting the principles
underlying the Roads 2000 approach, need has been recognised to address the following:-
(a)   The employment of casual labour and labour-only contractors will assist
the Government policy of creating employment in the rural areas.
(b)   Towed graders and motor graders will be put into complementary uses.
Their ownership and maintenance policies will be developed within the
general framework of the Strategic Plan.
4.4   Opportunities clearly exist for expanding the use of contractors into areas which
have hitherto been the preserve of the force account organisation. As mentioned earlier,
about 70% of the periodic maintenance are already carried out by contracting. Efforts
will be made to contract out 90% of the works in the 1995/96 financial year.
4.5   A project has been undertaken in Kenya with the assistance of the Swedish
International Development Agency to develop small local contractors to undertake
labour-based gravelling works. Some contractors have now been certified, even though



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 9
difficulties were experienced with their performance. Labour-based gravelling works will
be contracted out to the certified contractors in the 1995/96 financial year. The
Government will also seek donor assistance to supplement Government financial
resources for training additional contractors. This will strengthen the Country's civil
engineering contracting base.
4.6   Contracting out of routine maintenance of both paved and unpaved roads will
depend on the completion of the preparation of contract documents, pilot routine
maintenance contracts, development of routine maintenance contractors and supervisors.
It is proposed that three of the five sections of the Northern Corridor will be contracted
out while maintenance of the other two sections will be undertaken by force account.
Concurrently the Government will examine routine maintenance of unpaved roads on a
pilot basis. It is also proposed that this pilot maintenance project will be undertaken over
a four-year period. The pilot project will demonstrate the viability and/or cost-
effectiveness of this approach. At the same time, efforts will be made to establish the
capacity and willingness of the private sector to undertake routine maintenance contracts.
Subject to the successful results of the pilot projects the Government plans to commence
contracting out routine maintenance by the year 2000.
4.7   Labour-based methods have been used in the country since the 1970s. It is the
Government's intention to expand their use wherever possible and where these methods
are more cost-effective than equipment-based methods under the Roads 2000 project. At
the end of the current agreements with MRP donors, the Government plans to introduce
Roads 2000 approach in the MRP districts. In addition, 5-10 non-MRP districts can be
taken on board annually, subject to intensified training of supervisors and availability of
funds.
5.0   FINANCING OF ROAD MAINTENANCE
5.1   The conclusion from a review of past maintenance expenditure is that matched
with maintenance requirements they have been inadequate. Redressing the imbalance
requires extending the funding base of road maintenance finance, reducing the scope of
requirements or a combination of the two. The Government has decided to extend the
funding base of maintenance finances and to improve on the operational efficiency.
5.2   The Government in June 1994 imposed a levy of K Sh 1/50 per litre of ordinary
and premium petrol, K Sh 1/00 per litre of diesel and K Sh 1/00 per litre of lubricants.
From June 1994 to 3rd February 1995 a total of K Sh 763,650,289.60 (K£ 38,182,514)
had been collected. This works out to a weekly collection of K Sh 23,140,917.87
(K£ 1,157,046) or an annual collection of K Sh 1,203,327,729.07 (£60,166,386).
5.3  In September 1994 the Government introduced the Common Market for Eastern
and Southern Africa (COMESA) harmonised road transit charges at the rate of US$3/100



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 9
km for heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) with upto 3 axles and US$8/1 00 km for HGVs with
more than 3 axles and all articulated vehicles. Between September and December 1994 a
total of K Sh 45,374,522.90 (K£ 2,268,726) had been realised from the levying of these
charges. This works out to a monthly collection of K Sh 11,343,630.70 (K£ 567,182) or
an annual collection of K Sh 136,123,568.70 (£ 6,806,178). It is expected that the
charges will be revised upwards in April 1995 the effect of which will be an increase in
annual collections to about K Sh 180 million.
5.4   The Treasury also continues to allocate funds for road maintenance under the
Recurrent Expenditures. The proposed Recurrent Forward Budget and Maintenance Levy
Fund levels for the financial year 1995/96 will be K£ 182,251,295. According to the
recent study on Expenditure and Funding Needs in the Roads Sector, the total
expenditure required for the classified network, based on the most economically attractive
practice is K£ 308 million. A comparison of the funding requirements with the available
financial resources indicates that there will be a gap in funding. The Government will
seek donor assistance to bridge this gap. At the same time, the Government commits
itself to bridge the gap gradually on a sliding scale. The outline of the Government's
programme for meeting the commitment of full maintenance funding of the classified
road network by the year 2000 is as follows:-
1995/95     -     KC 182,251,295
1996/97     -     K£ 209,003,689
1997/98     -     K£ 230,263,859
1998/99     -     KE 264,803,437
1999/2000   -     K£ 304,523,954
6.0   MONITORING PROCEDURES
6.1   The Government will ensure that funds allocated for road maintenance operations
are used effectively and efficiently. In this regard, a budget is prepared based on the
workplans and priorities at the districts and provinces. The budget is subject to Treasury
approval before expenditures are incurred to ensure that the funds are audited by the
Controller and Auditor General. Also, in pursuit of operational efficiency,
districts/provinces are required to submit progress reports on a monthly basis.
6.2   Further, the Government will establish an Inspectorate Unit in MoPw&h to
monitor the quantity and quality of work. The Inspectorate Unit will be located within
the Design and Inspectorate Branch of the Roads Department and will be functionally
headed by a Senior Superintending Engineer (Design and Inspectorate) who will be
supported by experienced Superintending Engineers.



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 9
7.0   EQUIPMENT OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE POLICIES:
7.1   Until recently, Kenya's road maintenance operations have been mainly equipment
intensive. For many years, the Mechanical and Transport Department (MTD) operated a
highly effective Equipment Funding Scheme. The Scheme was suspended in 1979 due to
the inability of user departments to pay the set charges. Since then, repair and
maintenance of equipment has been funded directly from the Treasury, but this has no,
improved the availability of equipment.
7.2   Prior to 1984, all road maintenance operations including the repair of plant and
equipment was under the control of the Provincial Engineer (PE) who was traditionally a
Highway engineer. It was then possible to achieve flexibility in prioritisation of
equipment repair, spare parts procurement and distribution particularly in times of
resource constraints. With the advent of the District Focus Strategy for Rural
Development the users and providers of the mechanical services report to different
Departmental Heads at the Headquarters and flexibility in prioritisation of equipment
repair was lost.
7.3   The Government's move towards greater use of contractors for road maintenance
operations will mean that in the long term the government will be required to operate
only a skeleton of equipment for emergency works as well as supervisory vehicles. But
desired level of contracting of road maintenance operations cannot be achieved before the
year 2005 at the earliest. This means that the government will continue to require
equipment for its force account units. It is, therefore, desirable that the Government
continues to use the available fleet with limited replacement so that the fleet size can
diminish as road maintenance contracting picks up. Should replacement of equipment
becomes necessary before full contracting of road maintenance operations, consideration
will be made for its leasing/hiring either from the private sector or MTD.
7.4   Through the Civil Service Reform Programme, the Government is restructuring
MTD and will address the question of staff motivation in order to improve the efficiency
of MTD. In addition, the Government is committed to increasing the funding of MTD
and to reduce its staffing level.
8.0   STAFF
8.1  In 1993 the Government had in its Roads Department a total of 12,279 employees
consisting of 174 engineers, 1059 road supervisors, 1867 artisans, 1255 drivers and plant
operators and 7924 support and other general staff. Their salaries and allowances
consumea about 70% of the funds allocated for road maintenance leaving about 30% for
operations.



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 9
8.2   The Government has launched a major reorganisation of Ministries and
Departments with the aim of making them simple, efficient and relevant to the present
day needs and priorities. Towards this end, the Government is encouraging voluntary
early retirement of the junior staff and has frozen the filling of posts left vacant for any
reason. A survey is being planned to determine the reduction of staff through the early
retirement scheme, natural attrition, etc. The remaining personnel will be well-motivated.
8.3   The staffing needs of the Roads Department are currently being worked out under
the study of Staff Rationalisation. This study will take into account Government's efforts
to move towards greater contracting of road maintenance operations. It is likely that with
greater contracting the perceived shortages of staff will not be there and the Government
may continue to encourage certain groups of people to retire voluntarily.
9.0 AXLE LOAD CONTROLS
9.1   The Government has 6 operational mobile weighbridges. It also has an
operational static weighbridge at Athi River and plans are in place to rehabilitate the
static bridge at Mariakani. Plans are also in place to construct static weighbridges at
Webuye, Isebania, Gilgil and Busia. The Mariakani weighbridge station is expected to be
operational by May 1995 while the construction of the Webuye, Isebania, Gilgil and
Busia is expected to be completed in June 1995, 1996, early 1996 and in 1997
respectively.
9.2   The Government has also put in place more effective rules governing the axle
load enforcement. Unlike in the past when axle load enforcement was being done for
only a few hours, it is now being done on a 24-hour basis. In addition, following the
completion of the extension of the pipeline to Western Kenya, volumetric controls are
being enforced on all tankers except those transporting gas and black oil.
9.3   Automatic data collection systems are also being installed at Mariakani, Gilgil,
Eldoret and Ahero for axle load monitoring and road design purposes.
10.0 SEQUENCING AND TIMING OF POLICY REFORMS
10.1  The key policy directions/goals which the Governnent proposes to pursue and the
time table for their implementation is contained in the attached Table 1.0.



Table 1.0
Policy Directions/Goals which GOK Proposes to Pursue
(Timetable of Implementation)
Long Term                  Short Term Actions               Date for      Responsibility               Present Status
Objective                                                   Action
I. Appropriate      a) Study of the appropriate institutional  June 1995 to    MOPWH          Consultants have been invited to submit
Highway Institution   framework                              June 1996                        proposals for evaluation
for sustainable road
maintenance         b) Seminars/workshops on the              June 1996 to    MOPWH
recommendations of the study             Dec. 1996
c) Cabinet paper on recommended reforms    Jan. 1997 to  MOPWH
March 1997
d) Establishment of the institutional
framework                                As soon as     MOPWH and
cabinet        relevant
approval is    organizations
received
2. To improve       a) 90% contracting of periodic road       1995/96        MOPWH            70% of works contract out
operational efficiency  maintenance
of road maintenance
operation           b) Contracting out some labor-based       1995/96        MOPWH             11 contractors have been trained and
gravelling                                                                registered. Process of awarding tenders to
1995/96       MOPWH             registered contractors has started. Technical
c) Contracting out routine maintenance on a                               assistance being provided to draw up detailed
pilot basis                                                              tender documents for each of the sections.
1995/96 -2000  MOPWH
d) Evaluation of the routine maintenance
contracting
,o oo



Long Term                  Short Term Actions                 Date for      Responsibility              Present Status
Objective                                                     Action
3. Increase fuinding    a) Raise recurrent budgetary allocations and    1995/96  MOPWI I         MOE: has promised to increase the level
of road maintenance   maintenance levy fund levels             1996/97                           of funding
to full maintenance                                             1997/98
need                                                           1998/99
1999/2000
b) Establish the Road Works Inspectorate  1995           ,N4OPWI I          An SSE(RWI)) an(d 4 SE's (RWI) have
Unit                                                                        been appointed
4. Equipment Policy   a) Roads Department (RD) to be authorized to  Jan. 1996  MOPWH             Equipment maintenance services can be
seek equipmenit maintenance services from                                   procured from the private sector subject
the private sector if MTD cannot provide the                               to MTD approval
service.
b) RD to lease/hire plant and equipment from   1998       MOPWH             RD hires vehicles (not plant) from MTD
the private sector where such plant and                                     only
equipment is unavailable at MTD.
c) Strengthening of MTD                   1998           MOPWH
Recommendation of the Institutional
Study to be ready by 1997
5. Staffing and      a) Establishment of the staffing needs    Mar. 1995       MOPWH             Study ongoing
training of RD and
MTD                  b) Establish shortfalls or excesses       Mar. 1995       MOPWH             Study ongoing
6. Axle Load         a) Rehabilitation of weighbridge facilities  1995-1997    MOPWH             Ongoing
Controls
b) Operations of weighbridge facilities on a
24-hour basis                             1995           MOPWH             Ongoing
c) Volumetric controls (except on gas and
black oil)                                1995           MOPWH and OP   Ongoing
7. Rationalization of   Development of the funds allocation criteria   1996   MOPWH              Pilot Work ongoing.
Expenditure
Priorities



ANNEX 9
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Component          FY 1996   FY 1997   FY 1998   FY 1999   FY 2000   FY 2001
Quarter.              1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4    12 3 4
Major Civil Works
Km 103 - 238                    ++++ +.+ #   ##                # #. .# it  t.t *   * * *
Km 238 - 393                     + + +      ###      #  ###       #  tt#    it***  **
Routine Maintenance
Firstround Contracts             . + +.#   # # f #   # # #
Second round Contracts                                 +++#   ## ##   #  
Goods                            . . +.    #         |                            _-
Technical Assistance
Structured Learning             . +  . #        #    ##  #|#t     # A         t P #I
Twinning                         + +.  #   # # # #   ####    #  #f#   # #  #_#
lHMM}S              X++XX+#00    ftft # # ##
Road Inventory                  ++++ #. .       #.      #f# # #
= Procurement
= Implementation
** * = Contractual maintenance period



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
ROAD MAINTENANCE LEVY FUND
OPERATING MODALITIES'
The Road Maintenance Levy Fund consists of fuel levy and transit toll collections. The Fuel
Levy Act states that the Minister of Public Works shall impose levy on any or all of the
petroleum products, the proceeds of which will go towards the maintenance of public roads
(classified roads and adopted streets).
Collection of Funds
*  Fuel levy is collected by Customs Department which in turn remits the collections to the
MOPW&H on weekly basis. On average, the Ministry has been receiving K 1 million.
*  Transit toll charges are collected jointly by MOPW&H and Customs. Projected annual
collection is K 12.5 - 15.0 million.
Budgeting
The budget sets priorities and splits the fund between the following:
routine maintenance
periodic maintenance
. design
* planning and road safety
Disbursements
Routine Maintenance: disaggregation is carried out using HMMS and the funds are
disbursed to the districts.
Periodic Maintenance: Work plans and priorities on which the budget is based come
from the districts/provinces.
Design: Funds for the demarcation of road reserves, road furniture, and the re-design of
dangerous locations are allocated on the basis of work plans.
Prepared by the Ministry of Public Works and Housing



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Planning and road safety: Funds are allocated for the collection of transit tolls,
monitoring of the collection of the fuel levy, identifying of road safety counter-measures
and traffic surveys.
The total budget is presented to the Treasury for approval and is, therefore, subject to audit by
the Auditor and Controller General.
Reporting
•  The Districts submit their monthly progress reports through the Provinces showing
outputs/achievements on grading, patching, gravelling and other labour-based activities.
*  Reports on paved road activities are sent monthly to show progress/achievements on
shoulder repairs, patching, bush clearing, ditch and culvert cleaning.
*  Districts/Provinces carrying out periodic maintenance activities submit monthly progress
reports
Annual summary of physical maintenance achievements will be prepared.
Monitoring and Auditing
*  The Fund is subject to audit by the Controller and Auditor General.
*  An Inspectorate Unit has been established to monitor the quality and quantity of work to
ensure that the Government gets value for money.



ANNEX 1 1
PROJECTS IN DOCUMENT FILE
1.    Engineering Report: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road, MOPWH, 1994
2.    Rehabilitation and Overlay Design Report: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate
Road, MOPWH, 1994
3.    Economic Evaluation: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road, MOPWH, 1994
4.    Accident Analysis Report: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road, MOPWH,
1994
5.    Design Review: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road, Otieno Odongo &
Partners, 1995
6.    Environmental Mitigation Plan: Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate Road,
MOPWH, 1994
7.    Project Implementation Manual, MOPWH, 1995



IBRD 26642
KENYA
NAIROBI - MOMBASA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Io A',j Obolo                                      /- AANDERAO
N.                                                                                                     /    ~~~~~~~~~~4
o')  X\                                                  a C                       .,7-                                         //
WAJ R
(KITAI E          '                                  0                                       /      I
J                                                                0TURBOI                                                                   I (  /URB'>
?              A             ELDORET /
Sg  /-,ANAE<ME  7         \             ¢'KASARNET
K \        |   KABSABET                                               ' K  TANK ERi
NYAHUR,,RU
\NNYERI                                                        RI
_S  v KERICHO          \                                                                          G R S
3   \                                   ><NA~~~~~'~ EBU\                                                 
~~~~~                                      /~~~~~~~~MURANGA>
N'AROK                          " THIKLA
NAIROBI            ;KITUI
TO TCl I 15   \,   s                      R   t  y8A~OCHAKOS                  
KAJAJO~~~~OMAK0.ENI")
\   KA ;ADOq   SULLTAN       CWOTE)                                        \
RECONSTRUCTION i              1V' %%.  )                           <                                                           O
STRENGTHENING A
_   _    _   MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS                                                       AN..-EI
MAJOR TOWNS                         0\ ,Ln
1*        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  _OI                                    _ _ _    _N_I
MAIN ROADS                                                    -   BACUALSDAN
GATE             SRAS !                            ETHIOPIA
4         NATIONAL AIRPORTS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                                                   IOABA
so     1iO       150      2000 K-                                     Z           KENYA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                  , I  t i                    NDA0o0u     .
o             50             100 Do dT r                                             BURUNDI1
The boundaries, colors. deno--iotions and ony other information                                     DOO,So,'                                    TAEZANIA
sho-nn on this  op do rot -eply on the part of The World Bo,ok
Group, ony ludgmeo on the fegat status of any territory or any
endorsement or occeptance of such bound,ries.
JANUARY 1995









- R:       +   t        ;                                        -.                        '                        -        - 
I                        ,                          II I



