Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2812 KE
                        Development Credit Agreement
                (Nairobi-Mombasa Road Rehabilitation Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 13, 1996
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2812 KE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has submitted to the Association
a letter, dated March 23, 1995, describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve an
adjustment of the Borrower's road sector (hereinafter referred
to as "the Program"), including revised operational rules
governing the Road Maintenance Levy Fund (as hereinafter
defined), and declared its commitment to the execution of the
Program;
      (B)   the Borrower has prepared and submitted to the
Association the strategic plan that it intends to adopt for the
road sector, giving details of the Borrower's needs and
priorities in terms of maintenance, rehabilitation and
improvement of the classified road network (hereinafter
referred to as the Strategic Plan), and declared its
commitment, upon the adoption of the Strategic Plan, to execute
the Strategic Plan as adopted;
      (C)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a
maintenance funding plan for its road sector, including
progressive adjustments of the level of the Road Maintenance
Levy Fund (as hereinafter defined) and increased annual
Page  2
budgetary allocations, designed to enable the Borrower to
provide full and sustainable road maintenance funding by year
2000 (hereinafter referred to as the Maintenance Funding Plan),
and declared its commitment to the execution of the Maintenance
Funding Plan as submitted;
      (D)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to conclude agreements with
other donors in view of securing additional financing in an
amount equivalent to about $59,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in such
agreements with other donors; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Fund" or "Road Maintenance Levy Fund" means the Road
Maintenance Levy Fund established under the Borrower's Road
Maintenance Levy Fund Act (Act No. 9 of 1993), as same may be
amended from time to time;
      (b)   "HMMS" means the Borrower's Highway Maintenance
Management System;
      (c)   "MOPWH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
and Housing;
      (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter of agreement, dated October 12, 1994,
signed by the Association and the Borrower;
      (e)   "RD" means the Roads Department of MOPWH;
      (f)   "RWI" means the Road Works Inspectorate established
under Part C of the Project;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "SSE" means the Senior Superintending Engineer
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
Page  3
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty four million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 34,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September
1,  commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2035. Each
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on
September 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the  amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MOPWH with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
Page  5
of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
Page  6
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out;
      (b)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Strategic Plan or the Maintenance Funding Plan, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out;
      (c)   the agreements referred to in paragraph (E) of the
Preamble shall have failed to become effective by December 31,
1997, or such later date as the Association may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources;
      (d)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                   under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified;
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the RWI has been established, and all key technical
and support personnel of RWI appointed, including SSE and two
Superintending Engineers; and
      (b)   the Strategic Plan has been adopted by the Borrower.
Page  7
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi
            Kenya
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   22921
                   Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
Page  8
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)      Civil works
    (a)  under Part A          22,730,000        100% of foreign
         (km 238 - 393)                          expenditures
         of the Project
    (b)  under Part B.1         1,810,000        50%
         of the Project
(2)      Consultants'           3,680,000        100%
         services and
         studies
(3)      Goods                    230,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)      Training                  40,000        100%
(5)      Refunding of             410,000        Amounts due
         Project                                 pursuant to
         Preparation                             Section 2.02 (c)
         Advance                                 of this Agreement
(6)      Unallocated            5,100,000
                                _________
    TOTAL                      34,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, civil works and consultants'
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and training, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to safeguard the
Borrower's main transport link between its primary production
areas and the port of Mombasa through the reconstruction and
strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa road, to encourage private
sector involvement in the maintenance of infrastructure, to
strengthen the monitoring and control of road maintenance
activities, and to provide basic support for road maintenance
planning.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Reconstruction and Strengthening of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road
      Execution of the following road work activities along the
corresponding sections of the Nairobi-Mombasa Road indicated below:
      Km 103-238 (Sultan Hamud - Mtito Andei)
      Reconstruction of this section along its existing
alignment, and widening of the road to 7 meters, with 2 meter
sealed shoulders.
      Km 238-393 (Mtito Andei - Bachuma Gate)
      Widening of the road to 7 meters, with 2 meter sealed
shoulders, and strengthening of the road for a design life of
15 years.
Part B:     Pilot Routine Maintenance Contracts
1.    Implementation of routine maintenance contracts by the
private sector on a pilot basis in respect of three sections of
the Malaba-Nairobi-Mombasa Road and by force account in respect
of two other sections.
2.    Monitoring of private sector and force account contracts
by an independent research institution, with a view to
demonstrate the benefits of contracting out routine maintenance
to private sector contractors, and determine the optimal terms
and conditions for such private sector contracts.
Part C:     Road Works Inspectorate
      Establishment of Road Works Inspectorate (RWI) within RD
to undertake technical audits of road work activities and
ensure efficiency, cost effectiveness and accountability in all
aspects of RD's construction and maintenance activities.
Part D: Institutional Support
1.    Conclusion of a twinning arrangement with an external road
agency, including technical assistance for the supervision of
routine maintenance contracts and establishment of RWI, and
training.
2.    Production of an updated and rationalized inventory, and
condition survey of the classified road network.
3.    Production of updated maps of the classified road network.
4.    Rationalization of maintenance planning systems, including
HMMS, taking into account the adoption of the Borrower's new
strategy for the unpaved road network (Roads 2000 strategy).
5.    Preparation of future projects.
                                    * * *
Page  10
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of
Part D.2 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval
will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity
period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and
(ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   In the procurement of works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Bidders for civil works under Part A (km 238 - 393) of the
Project shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works under Part B.1 of the Project may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Page  11
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15 % is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out this
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
Page  12
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later
than December 31, 1998, undertake a joint midterm review of the
Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on
all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Agreement; including, but not limited to: (i) an assessment of
progress achieved in the execution of major construction
contracts; (ii) an assessment of progress achieved in the
implementation of the Strategic Plan; (iii) an assessment of
the effectiveness of the Fund and, in particular, the size and
adequacy thereof, in terms of its stated objective of achieving
full and sustainable funding by year 2000; (iv) a review of
technical and financial lessons drawn as a result of the
monitoring exercise under Part B.2 of the Project, and proposed
modifications to subsequent contracts or contract extensions;
and (v) an assessment of the effectiveness of RWI, and proposed
changes required to promote the achievement of its objectives.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to such midterm
review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project.
      (c)   Following such midterm review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
2.    Without prejudice to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall submit the following
reports to the Association for review and comments:
      (a)   quarterly reports on the progress of the Project;
      (b)   annual reports on the implementation of the Strategic
Plan;
      (c)   quarterly and annual reports to be produced by the
monitoring team under Part B.2 of the Project;
      (d)   reports of consultants recruited under Parts D.2 and
D.4 of the Project; and
      (e)   annual reports of RWI and the Fund.
3.    For purposes of Parts A and B.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that all civil works thereunder shall be
undertaken in full compliance with an environmental mitigation
plan developed by the Borrower and acceptable to the
Association, and that, accordingly, appropriate measures to
reduce or eliminate adverse environmental effects of road work
activities shall be included in the corresponding contract documents.
4.    For purposes of Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall award maintenance contracts for an initial duration of
not more than two years, and shall take into account the
lessons of the monitoring exercise under Part B.2 of the
Project to make such modifications as may be appropriate or
necessary to subsequent contracts or extensions of contracts.
Page  13
5.    For purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
appoint an experienced engineer at the level of Senior
Superintending Engineer to be in charge of RWI, who shall
report to the Chief Superintending Engineer (Design and
Inspectorate), and who shall be assisted by not less than two
other suitably experienced superintending engineers.
6.    The Borrower and the Association shall exchange views
annually on the Borrower's road sector policies and programs,
and, in this regard, each party shall give due consideration to
the other party's views.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
            (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
Page  14
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
Page  15
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
