in of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIL USE ONY
Report No. 6398
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAK, AND CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAK)
September 15, 1986
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
DOM   -   Duloy/O'Mara Study
ERR   -   Economic Rate of Return
FGW   -   Fresh Groundwater
GOP   -   Government of Pakistan
IBDF  -   Indus Basin Develooment Fund
IDA   -   International Development Association
O&M   -   Operation and Maintenance
OED   -   Operations Evaluation Department
PCR   -   Project Completion Report
PPAM  -   Project Performance Audit Memorandum
PPAR  -   Project Performance Audit Report
SAR   -   Staff Appraisal Report
SGW   -   Saline Groundwater
TDF   -   Tarbela Development Fund
TW    -   Public Tubewell
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Programme
WAPDA -   Water and Power Development Authority
TERMS OF MEASUREMENT
kv    -   kilovolt: 1,000 volts
kw    -   kilowatt: 1,000 watts
kwh   -   kilowatt hour:  urnit of work or energy equal to
that expended by one kilowatt in one hour
MAF   -   million acre feet
Mw    -   megawatt: 1,000,000 watts



uF%ffA ~N5lI  0  JI
THM WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA.
Office of D,wto.GaswaI
opsratwme EvaiuatiaA
September 15, 1986
MEM4ORANDIUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Pakistan Tarbela Dam
Project (Loan 548-PAK and Credits 581- and 771-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"'Project Performance Audit Report on Pakistan Tarbela Dam Project
(Loan 548-PAK and Credits 581- and 771-PAK)" prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAK, AND CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAX)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................................**..*******..**....*          i
Basic Data Sheet .................  .  ...........................   iii
Evaluation Summary ....       ...................................... .......    iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
1.  SUMMARY ..oo...........   ,,.............                           1
Formulation and Design ....       ................................  1
Implementation ................*.*.*S...*****************           3
Impact *.000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000..         5
II.  MAIN ISSUES                              .................          7
A.  Economic Evaluation *0e0@0**0e*.........*.........              7
B.  Irrigation Water Allocation          ...........................    12
C.  Water Resource Planning          ...............................    13
D.  Cofinancing Through Development Funds ....is 15
E.  Priorities in Project Emergencies       .....................    16
Appendix:  Borrowet Comments *4      ..............................  0000 000    17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I*  Introduction .........,       ..................................    23
II.  Background 0000. .......................... *                      26
III.  Project Formulation            .................................   30
IV.  Principal Project Features           ................................    32
V.  Project Administration and Management           .....................    33
VI.  Project Implementation           ....................................    38
VII.  Remedial/Repair Program  ...........................              42
VIII.  Future Work .................4..........,                          45
IX.  Operating Performance  ...........................    48
X.  Financial Performance *..................................          50
XI.  Institutional Performance and Development .................    51
XII.  Economic Re-evaluation .....o......        .......................    53
XIII.  Bank Performance          .............    ............ ..............*    57
X'V.  Conclusions          ..........................................    59
Annexes              ....                 , , , .                 ..............................  63
Map IBRD No. 3891(PCR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PAKIS'iAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAK, AND CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAK)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Tarbela Dam Project in Pakistan,
for which one Bank loan and two IDA credits were approved as follows: Loan
548-PAK in 1968 for US$25.0 million equivalent as an initial contribution to
the Tarbela Development Fund (TDF); Credit 581-PAK in 1975 for US$8.0 million
equivalent as a contribution to the TDF Supplemental Agreement; and Credit
771-PAK in 1978 for US$35.0 million equivalent as a contribution to the TDF
Second Supplemental Agreement. The audit covers not only the foregoing loan
and credits buz also the EEC Special Action Credit 51-PAK in 1980 for US$9.0
million equivalent in support cf the general purposes of the TDF, and all
other project financing. The Bank loan and credits were fully disbursed by
September 1981, at which time other monies from bilateral contributors and
Pakistan still remained in the TDF.
The audit has a number of special features.   First, it covers a
series of lending operations, beginning 18 years ago, for an extremely large
civil engineering project whose completion was substantially delayed by major
mishaps. Second, OED decided at an early stage in its review not to comment
on, or evaluate, the technical engineering aspects of these mishaps. It had
long been felt that OED could not add materially to the lessons learnt from
those problems, and this was an important considaration when the time came
for audit.   Instead, it was decided to focus attention on other aspects of
the investments, particularly their economic rationale.   Third,  the audit
reviews the events during the 30 years of Bank involvement in the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Dam projects. During the last 15 years of the period the spot-
light has been on Tarbela, and although these years are covered in greater
detail, much is necessarily presented briefly. There are no staff appraisal
reports to which one can refer for earlier analyses and views, nor are there
previous completion reports covering the Bank's loan and credits; conse-
quently, the format and content of this report are somewhat different from
the standard PPAR.
The audit report comprises:  an audit memorandum (PPAM), prepared
by the Operations Evaluation Department, and a Project Completion Report
(PCR) prepared by the South Asia Projects Department.  The latter's discus-
sions with Pakistan's Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) on



- ii -
preparation of a draft PCR were initiated during a mission in May 1982.  In
December 1982, WAPDA furnished a partial draft of the PCR.  Remaining por-
tions were furnished at the end of June 1983. Using the WAPDA material and
other material in Bank files, a Bank draft was completed in mid-August 1983
and furnished to WAPDA staff and to the Bank consultants on the Tarbela Dam
Project, and their technical review was requested. WAPDA's and the consult-
ants' comments were considered in the preparation of the PCR which was com-
pleted in April 1984.  In addition to these sources, the PPAR is based on a
review of the relevant President's Reports and Loan and Project Agree-
mentsl/, the Administrator's Reports and related documents, and correspon-
dence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project issues as con-
tained in relevant Bank files.  Bank staff associated with the project have
also been interviewed.
An OED mission visited Pakistan in November/December 1984. It held
discussions with WAPDA, the Ministry of Water and Power, the Ministry of
Planning and Development, and the Bank's consultant for the project (Sir
Alexander Gibb and Partners).  It also visited the project site on the Indus
River.   The information obtained during the mission was used to test the
non-engineering conclusions of the PCK and to elaborate on a number of issues
in the audit memorandum.  The technical, engineering features of the Tarbela
Dam and its remedial/repair program have been reported in many documents,
particularly in the half-yearly Administrator's Reports, the Special Reports
of the Administrator (see Annex 7 to the PC,(, items 8, 14, 15, and 21) and in
the Bank consultants' report of June 1980 (see PCR, Annex 7, item 23).   A
list of principal references and publications is given in PCR Annex 7.  In
addition,  the technical problems of the project are reviewed  in the PCR
(paras. 7.03-7.04 and 14.13-14.14).
Ignoring the technical issues, on which it takes no position, the
audit finds the PCR comprehensive and generally accurate with respect to the
project's principal achievements.   Part II of the audit memorandum comments
on the PCR's evaluation of power and agricultural benefits, but the audit's
suggested changes offset one another. The main issues discussed in the audit
memorandum have been selected because of their relevance to the evaluation
and financing of large civil works and to the handling of emergency situa-
tions that threaten the integrity of such works.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on April 9, 1986 for
comments.   Comments received from WAPDA are attached as an appendix to tile
PPAM.
The valuable assistance provided by Government staff, and by the
other individuals interviewed is gratefully acknowledged.
1/   These were as follows:   for Loan 548-PAK, the President's Report No.
P-616 of June 18, 1968 and Loan Agreement of July 10, 1968; for Credit
581-PAK, the President's Report No. P-1674-PAK of July 10, 1975 and
Development Credit Agreement of August 15, 1975; for Credit 771-PAK, the
President's Report No. P-2228-PAK of February 15, 1978 and Development
Credit Agreement of March 10, 1976.



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAlt CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAK)/a
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Initial                Actual or          Actual as S of
Estimate           Estimated Actual       Initial Estimate
Basic Project Cost (US$ million) /b   828.0                   954.0                  115
Total Project Cost (US$ millior.) 7;   828.0                1,497.0                  181
Date Physical Components Completed    04/76                   1984 /d               200
Proportior. then comapleted (2)         -                    100
Portion of Time Overrun (2)               -                    100
Economic Performance (ERR 2)             9-13                  12.5              96-139
Institutional Performance                 -                 Satisfactory
Financial Performance                                       Satifactory
Date Board Approval Lr.. 548-PAK (US$25 million)       06/19/68       Effective 08/02/68
Date Board Approval Cr. 581-PAK (US$8 million)         07/2/75       Effective 08/15/75
Date Board Approval Cr. 771-PAK (USS35 million)         02/28/78     Effective 02/28/78
Date Board Approval EEC SA Cr. 51-PAK (US$9 million)02/23/RO) /e Effective 06/02/80
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY69  FY70  FY71  FY72  FY73  FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82
Initial estimate (USS in)
Actual (USS million)
Actual as X of Appraisal estimate
Dates of Final Disbursement:  Ln. 548-PAK 11/16/76; Cr. 581-PAR 01/13/76; Cr. 771-PAK 09/09/81.
STAFF INPUTS /f
FY68-72   FY73   FY74   FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Negotiations  n.a.                                             7.2
Preparation   n.a.       0.2
Supervision   n.a.               3.4   35.6   20.2   36.1   37.3   54.0   88.7   14.2   31.6   40.1   25.2   33.1
MISSION DATA
Month/   No. of      Staffdays  Specializarions  Performance                Types of
Mission                  Year    Persons    in Field   Represented /a    Rsting  /h  Trend /i  Problems /
Supervision  1              08/80       1          10             e                 2           1          T,F
Supervision  It             12/80       1          25             e                2           1           T,F
Supervision  III            03/81       1          17             e                2           1           T,F
Supervisior. IV            07/81       2           16            e.n               2           1           T,F
Supervision  V              09/81       1          16             e                2           1           T,F
Supervision  VI            06/82       1           20             e
Supervision  VIl            09/82       1          12                              2           1           T,F
Supervision  VIII          01/83       1           21             e                2           1           T,F
Supervision  IX             06/83      2           27            e,n               2           1           T,F
Supervision  X             09/83       1           21                              2           1           T,F
Supervision  XI            01/84        1          14             e                2           I           T,F
Supervision  XII           09/84       1            9             e                2           1           TJF
Supervision  XIII           12/84       1          16             e                 2          1           T,F
Supervision  XIV           05/85       1           10             e
Supervision  XV             10/85       1          12             e                2           1           T,F
SUBTOTAL                            246
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Executing Agency                  WAPDA
Fiscal Year                       July I to June 30
Name of Currency (abbreviation) Rupee (Rs)
Currency Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year Average    US$1.00 - Rs 4.76
Completicn Year Average   US$1.00 - Rs 12.00
/a   Bank acts as Administrator of Tarbela Development Fund which includes not only these loans and credits,
but also contributions from several bilateral contributors 'Tarbela Development Fund Agreement
(1968) and from Pakistan.
/b   Does not include costs of remedial/repair program.
7;   Includes costs of remedial/repair program.
7;   Final completion was delayed by repair of a series of damaging events (see Chapter VII, PCR)
7T   US$7.06 million equivalent disbursed.  Difference due to fluctuations in values of the several
currencies.
/f   Source, Planning and Budgetting Department - in staff weeks
e - engineer, n - loan officer.
7i 1 - Problem-free or Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems and 3 - Major Problema.
7W    I - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
TI   T - Technical; F - Financial.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAK, AND CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Tarbela Dam, the largest fill-type dam in the world, is the key
feature, and the last to be constructed, of the Indus Basin Project.   The
Bank assisted in mobilizing funds and served as Administrator of both the
Indus Basin Development Fund (IBDF) (1960-67) and the Tarbela Development
Fund (TDF) (1968-present), managing the disbursement of over US$2.3 billion
equivalent. As Administrator of the IBDF and TDF, the Bank represented the
international community of lenders and donors who participated. The need to
give prudent management to these funds, together with the large contributions
by Pakistan, for a construction program of unprecedented magnitude and com-
plicated by the Tarbela remedial/repair program resulted in very broad and
deep involvement by the Bank, beyond fund management into project management,
administration, technical analysis and technical decisions.
Objectives
The main objectives of the Tarbela Dam Project were to provide reg-
ulated water supplies for irrigation use, provide substantial supplies of
hydroelectric power, and give a measure of flood control by storing snowmelt
and monsoon flows of the Indus River. All of these were to be accomplished
by constructing the Tarbela Dam and related hydroelectric civil works. Power
generation equipment was to be procured and irstalled using non-TDF finance.
Implementation Experience
Construction of the principal elements of the Tarbela Dam Project
began in 1968 and proceeded on schedule.   Construction was under a single
civil works contract which required the contractor to complete all construc-
tion including the powerhouse building.  Filling of the reservoir commenced
in 1974.   In August 1974, a series of problems developed, beginning with
severe damage to Tunnels 1 and 2, which set in motion a remedial/repair pro-
gram that extended over the next ten years, ending in 1984.  Some part of
this program fitted within the original project concept, which allowed for
some investments to be delayed until experience was gained from early opera-
tion of the project, but the major part of it was unexpected.  For a period
during 1974/75, the project was threatened with even more serious damages,
the aversion of which was a major accomplishment.   The total cost of the
project, including the remedial works, rose from US$828 million to US$1.497
billion.



-v 
Sustainability
All phases of the remedial/repair program were completed in 1984.
Future activities can be coitsidered to be routine operation and maintenance.
Because o? the unprecedented size of many of the project facilities, the O&M
program will be very large dnd is the key to the long-term performance and
safety of the project. Close attention, regular inspection, adequate finan-
cial resources and national recognition of the critical nature of Tarbela
will clearly be required.  GOP/WAPDA were slow in developing this program,
but it is coming together. The program ought to be sufficient to sustain the
physical outputs that have been forecast in the PCR. Furthermore, the addi-
tional waters diverted for surface irrigation should also help to sustain or
accelerate groundwater irrigation in the Indus Basin through recharge of
aquifers.   This latter benefit,  being additional to irrigation benefits
counted in the PCR, should offset any decline in power benefits signalled by
the current drop in energy prices.
Findings and Lessons
Despite the long period and great demands of the remedial/repair
program, the profile of project benefits was delayed by only one year and the
first decade of Tarbela's hydro-power output enjoyed unexpectedly high energy
prices, with the result that the project's economic rate of return is estima-
ted in the PCR at 12.5%. This is within the limits of the pre-project esti-
mate (1967) that "...a reasonable conservative range of rate of return would
be about 9-13 percent."  This finding is indeed remarkable in view of the
many problems of implementation, but the audit believes it is a reasonable
one.   Power benefits, previously expected to amount to one-quarter of the
total benefits, have risen to nearly one-half, principally through the
increases ncted in the value of energy, and currently contribute about 30% of
the nation's electricity output.  The agricultural benefits could have been
measured quite differently, according to other analyses in the Bank, but the
likely direction of corrections in this case would favor a higher, not a
lower return.   Nevertheless, the possibility that these benefits could be
significantly greater than revealed in the PCR deserves attention (PPAM,
paras. 25-36), particularly for future appraisals of similar projects.
Modelling studies of the Indus Basin carried out within the Bank
re-confirm widely shared vie-s that certain changes in surface water
allocation policy in Pakistan--regarding the disposition of incremental
irrigation water supplies--could increase the irrigation benefits of
Tarbela.    Principally,  these  changes would  require agreement among the
Provincial and Federal Governments that greater proportions of such supplies
be directed towards areas overlying saline groundwater.   This strategy,
coupled with necessary investments in drainage, could give rise to
considerably higher, Basin-wide gains in production and employment.   The
benefits to be derived from breaking the deadlock of competing interests in
water allocation would rival the benefits of further major engineering
investments in developing water supplies (PCR, para. 11.04 and PPAM, paras.
37-39), if these two courses were considered as alternatives. Naturally, the
two courses would also be highly complementary.



- vi -
The original feasibility analysis for Tarbela was part of a broad
sector planning study undertaken by Bank staff and consultants to identify
investment priorities in the water and power systems.   Unfortunately, the
development of the institutional capacity to conduct research and training in
Pakistan on water resource engineering and management has not been an impor-
tant area of Bank concern (PPAM, paras. 40-41).
The TDF, into which all financial resources were placed to form a
single fund with the Bank as Administrator, was clearly a useful device.
This fund and the earlier Indus Fund offer a successful model of how to
cofinance giant civil works, and such funds deserve to be employed again if
similar circumstances arise.   Although the Bank carried out its various
responsibilities as Administrator rather well, its arrangements internally
for project supervision evolved somewhat haphazardly. The final arrangement,
introduced since 1980, of having a single responsible project officer who
prepared regular supervision reports internally, as in any other project, was
clearly the preferable one.   The responsibilities of such an officer need
careful consideration when outside firms are hired to do most of the
supervision work on behalf of the Bank as Administrator, as was the case with
Tarbela (PPAM, paras. 42-46).
The most critical element favoring the project's success, however,
particularly the success of the remedial/repair program, was the cooperation
and support of all parties involved: the international donor community, all
levels of the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the involved agencies of GOP,
the contractor, the project consultant, the other consultant and advisory
groups, and the Bank.  The behavior of these parties on the occasion of the
incidents that threatened the project in 1974 offers an exemplary model for
how to deal 'ith emergency situations for large civil works.   But the tone
for the joint response was set by GOP.  Its consistent commitment to saving
the project was the key to the success achieved (PCR, paras. 11.02 and 14.23,
and PPAM, para. 47).



- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
(LOAN 548-PAK, AND CREDITS 581- AND 771-PAK)
I. SUMMARY
Formulation and Design
1.        Background.   The partition  of  the Indian subcontinent  in  1947
resulted in the border between India and Pakistan being drawn across the
Indus river system. Pakistan became the downstream riparian on all the trib-
utaries, and the division of the waters became a major international
dispute. However, in 1952, both countries accepted offers by the Bank to
assist in finding a settlement, and in 1954, the Bank put forward proposals
for a settlement that had the following principal features.   The waters of
the three Western rivers, the Indus, the Jhelum and the Chenab, were to be
allocated to Pakistan, and the waters of the three Eastern rivers, the Ravi,
the Beas and the Sutlej, to India.  The areas in Pakistan, hitherto fed by
the Eastern rivers, would in future be fed by water to be transferred from
the Western rivers by means of a system of replacement works.
2.        In September  1960,  India and Pakistan signed the Indus Waters
Treaty, in which it was agreed that India would have the sole use of the
waters of the Eastern rivers and would make a contribution to the cost of the
replacement works, while Pakistan would have the use of the waters of the
Western rivers.
3.        This solution of the dispute became feasible as the result of the
willingness of a number of countries and the Bank to provide substantial
financial assistance to supplement India's payment due under the terms of the
Indus Waters Treaty.   Accordingly, the Indus Basin Development Fund Agree-
ment, 1960, was executed simultaneously with the signing of the Indus Waters
Treaty. This Agreement established the IBDF (or Indus Fund), wich commit-
ments from Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Pakistaa, the United
Kingdom, the United States, and the Bank to contribute in grants ana loans
(including   62,060,000  to  be  provided  by  India  under  the  Indus  Waters
Treaty), the equivalent at that time of US$895 million. The Bank's contribu-
tion was a loan of US$90 million, and it agreed to act as Administrator.
4.        The system of works originally consisted of the construction of two
large dams, one on the Jhelum River (Mangla) and another on the Indus River
(Tarbela), about 400 miles of new link canals, three major and two minor bar-
rages, the remodelling of three existing link canals, and a program of tube-
wells and drainage. At that time the total cost of the system was estimated
at US$848 million equivalent.



- 2 -
5.        However,  it  soon  became  apparent  the  funds committed would be
insufficient. After discussions among the Bank, the contributing governments
and Pakistan, a compromise was reached on a new financing plan for a reduced
system of works in which Mangla Dam, the barrages and the link canals would
be given priority and the tubewells and drainage works would be omitted; any
funds remaining in the Indus Fund would be made available to Pakistan to
finance the Tarbela Dam on the Indus or another water development project, to
be agreed by the Bank and Pakistan after a study of the water and power
sector in the then West Pakistan.
6.         A new financing plan involving an additional US$315 million in
foreign exchange from the contributors was arranged to finance the entire
system of vrorks provided for in the 1960 Agreement.  For its part, Pakistan
agreed to provide all future rupee requirements  of the Indus  Fund.   As
before, the financing plan provided that any foreign exchange balance would
be available for the Tarbela Dam Project, or some other water development
project.   These arrangements were embodied in the Indus Basin Development
Fund (Supplemental) Agreement, 1964.
7.        The study provided for in the Supplemental Agreement 1964 was car-
ried out by several firms of consulting engineers and a group of Bank staff
directed by a then Executive Director of the Bank, Mr. Pieter Lieftinck1/.
The study, issued in 1967, endorsed the high priority given to the Tarbela
Dam Project by Pakistan and confirmed that the project was not only techni-
cally feasible but also economically justified either singly or as part of a
comprehensive development program.
8.        Tarbela Development Fund Agreement.  Discussions subsequently took
place to consider how the balance of the funds for Tarbela might be provided
to supplement the sum likely to be available for transfer from the Indus
Fund, then estimated at US$324 million. In March 1968, agreement was reached
in principle on the terms of the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement.   In
April 1968, tthe Executive Directors approved a resolution authorizing the
signature on behalf of the Bank of the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement
whereby, inter alia, the Bank would become Administrator of the TDF and would
make a loan of US$25 million. In May 1968, this agreement had been signed by
all the parties and had come into force.  In July 1968 the Executive Direc-
tors approved the loan of US$25 million (Loan 548-PAK).   The other parties
agreed to provide US$149 million equivalent.   Pakistan agreed to provide to
the TDF all rupees required to meet local currency costs.
9.        Tarbela Project.   The Tarbela Dam was designed as an earth and
rockfill dam across the Indus River, about 40 miles northwest oi Islamabad.
The dam, 470 feet high and about 9,000 feet long at its crest, was to be
flanked by two auxiliary dams on the left bank.  The dams were designed to
impound 11.1 million acre feet (MAF) of water which would provide initially
9.3 MAF of live storage.   Two spillways were provided at the left abutment,
with a capacity sufficient to handle over twice the largest flood on record.
1/   Study of the Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan, prepared by a
group of World Bank staff headed by P. Lieftinck, 3 volumes, July 28,
1967.



- 3 -
10.       Four tunnels, each 45 feet in diameter at the upstream end, were to
be cut in the right abutment to divert the flow of the river during construc-
tion.  Three of these tunnels were intended to serve as power intakes, each
to serve four generating units.   The fourth tunnel was to serve as a per-
manent irrigation outlet. The Tarbela power plant was to have 12 generating
units of 175 megawatts (Mw) each, a total of 2,100 Mw.   These units and
related equipment were to be financed separately by Pakistan, with assistance
from Japan.    Five-hundred-kv  and  220-kv  transmission  lines  required  to
transmit the power generated at Tarbela to the main load centers were subse-
quently financed with assistance by Canada and China respectively.   As a
departure from the original design, Pakistan added at its own cost two
tunnels as au'ditional irrigation outlets, one stub tunnel (not yet completed)
in the right bank and one tunnel with complete outlet works in the left
bank. Considerable technical details of the design elements are given in the
PCR.
11.       At the time of the establishment of the TDF the project was estima-
ted to cost US$827.5 million equivalent, including US$492 million in foreign
exchange. Its ERR was estimated to lie in the range 9-13%.
Implementation
12.       After some initial difficulties, the major civil engineering works
were constructed on schedule and by the middle of August 1974 the main
embankment dam had been completed.   Progress on the construction of the
powerhouse and installation of the generating plant, to be commissioned from
about the end of 1975, was also generally on schedule. The impounding of the
reservoir began in July 1974. Owing to the complex geological nature of the
foundations, it had been decided to test fill the reservoir slowly and, in
order to facilitate emergency "dumping" of the reservoir, should this prove
necessary, the inlet gates to Tunnels 1 and 2, originally intended to operate
only as closure gates, were modified so that they could be both opened and
closed under hydraulic head. Shortly after the filling began, it was discov-
ered that the center gate of Tunnel 2 could not be fully closed.  Then some
of the steel liner plates were ripped off one of the outlet passages of
Tunnel 3, whereupon, as a precautionary measure, all the outlet gates to
Tunnels 3 and 4 were closed, and the reservoir began to fill at an increasing
rate. The next incident was a loud noise in the inlet area of Tunnel 2 fol-
lowing which water flowed at full bore through the tunnel accompanied by
debris. The decision was then taken to dump the reservoir by opening all the
gates of the other tunnels.   As the water level was drawn down it was
revealed that the main damage consisted of the collapse of a section of Tun-
nel 2 in the inlet area and the cave-in of the abutment above the area of
collapse. There was considerable cavitation damage in Tunnels 1 and 2 and,
as mentioned above, the liner plates in Tunnel 3 outlet had been ripped off.
A number of sink holes were found in the upstream blanket.  Seepage through
the relief wells at the toe of the dam and through the right abutment was
more than had been expected. Damage of a less serious nature was caused by
the turbulent flows of water in the outlet area downstream of the dam.
13.       When the accident occurred the GOP gave instructions that first
priority should be given to res zoring the works in time for the next filling
of the reservoir and appointed a Cabinet Committee on Tarbela to monitor



- 4 -
progress and resolve difficulties.   The Bank arranged for one of its Vice
Presidents to lead the work of the Bank, in its capacity as Administrator of
the Indus and Tarbela Development Funds, in the measures necessary to restore
the situation following the mishaps during the first filling of the reser-
voir. He visited Pakistan in October and December 1974 and in February 1975
to discuss the required program of remedial measures and to review action
required on potential  problems.   After each of  these missions,  Special
Reports by the Administrator were sent to the parties of the Indus Fund and
Tarbela Development Fund Agreements and oral reports were made to the Execu-
tive Directors. As soon as the nature and extent of the damage were known, a
program of repair works was started and the project engineers alo0 prepared a
program of additional works designed to increase the safety of the project
during the next filling. Good progress was made with implementing these pro-
grams, and all the work which had to be carried out before the reservoir
again began to fill in June 1975 was finished in time.  At that point, it
appeared that some additional remedial works costing US$62.2 million were all
that remained to be completed.  Hitherto, it had been possible to meet the
costs of repair and remedial works from resources remaining in the TDF, pend-
ing the completion of final project works; these resources now had to be
replaced to permit final completion of the project.
14.       The 1975 revised estimate of the total cost of the project, includ-
ing the cost of the aforementioned repairs and additional works, was US$1.02
billion, of which US$568 million was foreign exchange. The amount available
in the TDF, including the balance of the Indus Fund, was expected to fall
short of this foreign exchange requirement by around US$50 million, although
there was considerable uncertainty as to the precise deficit amount.
15.       As soon as a reasonably firm cost estimate was available, the Bank,
in its capacity as Administrator of the Indus and Tarbela Development Funds,
approached the countries which had previously contributed to these funds. As
a result of this approach, five countries, namely, Australia, Germany, Italy,
the United Kingdom and the United States, indicated that they were prepared
to make special (additional) contributions, and IDA contributed a credit of
US$8.0 million (Credit 581-PAK). The Federal Republic of Germany and Canada
provided assistance under special arrangements. In this manner, the TDF was
supplemented in 1975 with US$44.6 million equivalent, and Pakistan faced the
additional rupee costs and the obligation still (under the 1968 Agreement) to
provide any additional funds to complete the project.
16.       Unfortunately, new difficulties came to light shortly after the
project facilities were brought into operation in mid-1975, and these were
followed by further incidents in 1976 and 1977. These mainly concerned dam-
ages to No. 3 stilling basin, sink holes in the upstream face of the main
embankment dam, erosion of the service spillway plunge pool, and a threat to
the foundation of the service spillway flip bucket.
17.       By 1978, the total cost of the project had been revised upwards to
US$1.274 billion, requiring further replenishment of TDF.   The additional
foreign exchange required was estimated at around US$150 million and the
additional rupee costs at over Rs 1 billion.   This led to the (Second
Supplemental) Agreement, 1978, under which further contributions to TDF



- 5 -
amounting to US$79 million were received from Canada, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, and IDA (US$35 million, Credit 771-PAK).
In addition, the EEC provided US$14 million, Kuwait US$18 million, Saudi
Arabia US$60 tillion, and Abu Dhabi US$25 million.
18.       From an operational point of view the project was substantially
completed by 1978.   Irrigation water had been available for some time, and
power generation had begun in May 1977.  Yet the completion date kept slip-
ping.  The auxiliary spillway plunge pool had also experienced erosion, whic'.
required work until June 1982, and remedial/repair expenditures on both
plunge pools alone are estimated to have reached approximately US$200 million
(PCR, para. 7.03).
19.       Total  project  costs  at  completion  are  estimated  at  US$1.497
billion,  or  181% of the original estimate.   The cost overrun of US$669
million arose largely from the need for a remedial/repair program following
the damages that began in 1974. The proximate causes of the main damages are
discussed in the PCR: material failure of the floor slab of stilling basin
No. 3; loss of bearing rails belonging to the upstream control gates of
Tunnels 1 and 2 because fixing bolts had not been tack welded; and
unanticipated, uneven and early erosion of the plunge pools' sides and
outlets (para. 7.04). The PCR's account of the primary lessons learned can
be summarized as follows: "the problems for the most part were exceptional
and unforeseeable at the then existing level of knowledge and experi3nce"
(para. 7.04) and "in retrospect, the full, potentially damaging, effect of
the large quantities and high velocities of water on structures on such
complex and adverse geology had not been fully appreciated" (para. 14.14).
As explained in the Preface, the audit has not attempted to examine these
issues.
Impact
20.        The two primary indicators of project impact cited in the PCR are
water released from Tarbela reservoir for irrigation and electric power gene-
rated.   Over the period 1975/76 to 1982/83, the average quantity of water
released annually for irrigation was 9.01 MAF. The gross value of agricul-
tural production estimated to have resulted therefrom was Rs 1.732 billion
per annum at border prices. Over the period 1976/77 to 1982/83, the average
quantity of power generated annually was 3.1 billion kwh; with the addition
of units 5-8 in 1982/83, output in that year reached 5.2 billion kwh, valued
at Rs 6.9 billion at border prices (PCi, para. 9.02, and Annex 6, Table 4).
Ten power units had been installed by 1985, when electricity output reached
7.9 billion kwh.  The PCK estimates the overall ERR at 12.5%.
21.      Unfortunately, the method of relating Tarbela's impact to the easily
identified water releases from, and power generated at, Tarbela is not neces-
sarily as straightforward as it might appear, particularly in the case of
agricultural impact, because of physical externalities and the integration of
Tarbela operations with those of other Indus Basin water storage and diver-
sion operations. This difficulty is explored below in Part II in the course
of reviewing the whole issue of economic evaluation.    The same difficulty



- 6 -
affects also the gauging of impact sustainability, as it is possible that the
above-mentioned benefits are not consistent with groundwater aquifer equili-
brium.  Notwithstanding this possibility and the expected effects of reser-
voir siltation on reducing water releases over time (PCR, para. 8.08), the
question of impact sustainability hinges principally on maintenance. The PCR
gives good reasons for expecting that Tarbela maintenance should sustain
project benefits satisfactorily (PCR, paras. 9.04-9.08).
22.       One of the negative byproducts of the huge remedial/repair program,
of immediate consequence for project impact, has been the diversion of funds
from other programs, particularly from downstream and basin-wide investments
in irrigation and drainage works as well as from water management, extension,
and other agricultural services (PCR, para. 2.07).
23.        The direct impact of Tarbela on emerging drainage problems in the
Indus Basin has been difficult to assess .  Even before Tarbela the greatly
increased continuous use of Indus water for irrigation (from storage or
direct river diversions) for over a century (up to about 1960) had signifi-
cantly altered the hydrological balance of the Basin.  Seepage losses from
irrigation canals, distributaries, minors, and watercourses and deep percola-
tions from the irrigated lands had resulted in a gradual upward movement of
the groundwater table, bringing with it critical problems of waterlogging and
salinity over a vast area. Waterlogging is widespread throughout Punjab and
Sind provinces, where most of the country's food and fiber crops are pro-
duced. In the early 1900s, the watertable was generally more than 15 meters
(m) below the surface throughout the Indus Plain. However, by 1978 (when the
Indus Basin Salinity Survey was completed), the watertable in 22% of the
Indus Basin was within 1.8 m of the surface, and in an additional 30% within
3 m. A comprehensive survey conducted in 1961 estimated that about 40,000 ba
of land were being lost annually to agricultural production due to waterlogg-
ing and/or salinity. Although these estimates have not been updated, avail-
able information suggests that land abandonment in severely waterlogged areas
is continuing.   Operation of the Tarbela reservoir is believed to have
further aggravated these conditions. Nevertheless, certain studies discussed
below (para. 28) estimate that Tarbela's net impact on groundwater levels has
been favorable because it has also helped to replenish groundwater depleted
by extens've private tubewell development.
24.       In the early 1960s, to relieve Pakistan's waterlogging and salinity
problems, GOP initiated a series of salinity control and reclamation projects
(SCARP) with public tubewell (TW) installation for drainage and supplemental
irrigation in usable fresh groundwater (FGW) areas.   By 1984, about 12,000
such TWs had been installed, with approximately 90% of them in Punjab, and
most of the remainder in Sind.  'The SCARP experience has demonstrated that
TWs provide significant drainage relief when properly designed and effi-
ciently operated.    However, because of management and financing problems
associated with TW operations, along with the rapid growth of private tube-
well investment in these FGW areas, GOP and Bank policy now call for private
development only in these areas. Most of these problems were anticipated in
the Lieftinck Report, which recognized that many complementary investments in



- 7 -
drainage and other activities would be required to effectively utilize
Tarbela's storage waters.   Currently, the principal need is to address the
drainage problem in saline groundwater (SGW) areas.   The Bank is assisting
Pakistan in implementing several drainage and tubewell projects to alleviate
the waterlogging and salinity problem.   These projects include:   Khairpur
(Cr. 678-PAK); SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK); SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK); Fourth
Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK); and the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) (Cr.
1532-PAK).
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Economic Evaluation
25.       The PCR's economic evaluation of Tarbela gives a favorable reesti-
mated ERA of 12.5%.   It attributes approximately three quarters of project
benefits to power and the remainder to agriculture, which is the reverse of
the proportions between power and agricultural benefits as estimated ex
ante. The principal reason for this reversal in benefit proportions was the
unexpectedly high energy (oil) prices enjoyed by the project during its first
decade of operation.   Since preparation of the PCR, however, energy prices
have fallen, and power output beyond the first decade of the project's life
has diminished in value relative to the estimate made in the PCR.  Yet the
more problematic aspect of the economic evaluation lies not with power but
with the agricultural side of Tarbela. Other work (involving the Indus Basin
Model) carried out in the Bank on developing a more comprehensive conceptual
framework for evaluating water resource investments - in particular,
Tarbela's irrigation benefits - claims a sipnificantly greater agricultural
benefit  than  that  identified  in the  PCR.L/   Because  the  likely  needed
adjustments to power and agricultural benefits largely offset one another,
the audit does not see cause to revise the project ERR.
26.       Power.  The PCR's pricing of hydroelectric power benefits, as with
other benefits and costs, was based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts
of July 1982. The recent sharp downward trend in oil prices leaves such an
evaluation somewhat exposed; the Bank's April 1986 forecast of future petro-
leum prices is about 60% lower than that made in July 1982.  But even with
this drastic revision and an updating of actual prices between 1983 and 1986,
the project ERR would drop only to 10.2%, indicating that such changes still
leave the project economically viable.  It also confirms the PCR's judgments
about the relative insensitivity of project ERR to such price risks (PCR,
para. 12.06).3/   Furthermore,  the risk that the PCR has overstated power
2/   John  H.  Duloy  and  Gerald  T.  O'Mara,  "Issues  of  Efficiency  and
Interdependence in Water Resource Investments:   Lessons from the Indus
Basin  of  Pakistan", World  Bank  Staff  Working  Papers,  Number  665,
September 1983.
3/   This result also confirms, incidently, that the economic viability of
the Tarbela project was preserved, in the face of large cost overruns,
largely by the unexpectedly high energy prices ruling during the first
decade of its operation.



- 8 -
unit values it offset to some extent by its having understated the likely
quantities of power output.  For the PCR chose not to take into account the
net benefits of power developments subsequent to Unit 10 on Tunnel No. 2:
namely, power Units 11, 12, 13 and 14 proposed for installation on Tunnel
No. 3 beginning in 1989, and the further power units under study for instal-
lation on Tunnel No. 4.  These additions would raise the rated capacity of
power installations from the 1,750 Mv covered by the PCR to over 2,800 Mw in
the first instance, and possibly to beyond 3,800 Mw. The audit is reluctant
to explore the impact of these additions--especially the later ones--in any
detail, because it does not have the necessary information.   Some rough
calculations suggest, however,  that these late additions to power output
would not have any substantial impact on the overall project ERR.
27.       Note in passing that the PCR and PPAM use a least cost alternative
(economic)  approach  to  valuing  electric  power,  rather  than  a  revenue
(financial) approach; both methodologies have been used on Bank power pro-
jects.   The least cost alternative approach is defensible if there is an
adequate, sustained market demand for the product produced, a requirement
which is amply m,ht in the case of Tarbela's power.   But there are also
pragmatic reasons for using this approach exclusively for Tarbela.   First,
the comparison and aggregation of power and irrigation benefits demand
reasonably conformable measures of them, preferably economic ones.   Second,
the TDF financed neither power generation equipment nor irrigation canal
works, and the various loan and credit agreements contain no specific
covenants on cost recovery; in consequence, the PCR provides no information
on Tarbela-generated financial revenues from either power or irrigation.
28.       Irrigation.  Beginninig in 1975, the Bank became involved in manag-
ing a UNDP-funded study of water resource planning for the Indus Basin. As
part of this effort, WAPDA collected basic data from 2,000 farms over the
period 1976/77 and provided and analyzed hydrologic and other physical
resource data on irrigation operations in the basin. A resulting publication
by Duloy and   O'Mara, which examines the conjunctive uses of surface and
ground waters for irrigation, concludes that
rigorous appraisal of water resource investments with significant
environmental impact should be done with reference to  cases for
which the environmental impact has been taken into account.   For
the example of Tarbela Dam, neglect of environmental impacts, which
are favorable, leads to an understatement of incremental benefits
by  38 percent  at domestic  prices  and  59 percent  at economic
prices. 4/
This observation is extremely relevant because the PCR has evaluated the
agricultural impact of Tarbela as if there are no important environmental
impacts (externalities) to be considered.
4/   Duloy and O'Mara, op cit, p.vi.



29.       Instead,  the  PCR  identifies  a  discrete  part  of  the  Indus
Basin-that pertaining to 10 Tarbela command canals5/--as being the only
part of the basin subject to Tarbela influence or of relevance for the
evaluation.    It  first  establishes  a  statistical  relationship  between
historical rabi6/   cropped area in this part of the basin and historical
quantities of canal and (separately) tubewell water delivered therein for
irrigation.  It then uses the estimated parameter associated with canal water
to predict what cropped area changes would likely be associated with the
irrigation water releases from Tarbela.  It derives the incremental benefits
of this predicted change in area cropped by applying a particular
(bullock-based) technology for producing crops (using wheat as a proxy for
all crops). This analysis conforms with most bank attempts to evaluate major
water resource developments, insofar as it does not attempt to deal with
externalities.7/
30.       In contrast, the analysis by Duloy and O'Mara (hereinafter DOM),
which insists on accommodating Tarbela's "environmental impact", attempts to
evaluate the impact of Tarbela on the behavior and management of irrigation
water resources in the whole basin and hence on agricultural activities
basin-wide. Hence, DOM argue that:
(a) water releases at Tarbela for irrigation have an influence on water
releases or diversions for irrigation at other structural control
points in the basin, not only during rabi, but during other seasons
as well;
(b) groundwater use, both within the gravity command of Tarbela and
throughout the rest of the basin, is heavily influenced by releasing
surface water into hundreds of miles of leaky canals and by percola-
tion from other watercourses and irrigated fields, giving rise to
other benefits and costs.
In addition, DOM argue that:
(c) the evaluation of the contribution of any structural control point
must account for whether or not the groundwater resources are being
managed in hydrologic balance; and
5/   To forestall any belated confusion as to the scope of the Tarbela
project, recall that it comprised only the dam and immediately adjacent
works.   It did not extend to any investments in canal distribution
systems.   The  10 so-called Tarbela command canals were already  in
existence.
6/   A term for the winter growing reason:  October 15 to April 15.
7/   The Region has essentially confirmed this observation by pointing out
that it consulted closely with the Bank's Operational Policy Staff in
the course of determining the PCR's method of valuing Tarbela's
agricutural benefits.



- 10 -
(d) the evaluation should attribute to Tarbela any rents to other long-
term investments, e.g., in tractor technology, that are stimulated
by the increased availability of canal and ground water.
Taking account of these four arguments demands much more information, of
course, than is required by the PCR's evaluation, and the adequacy of such
information has been a point of much dispute for critics of the DOM
analysis.   Nevertheless,  the audit  believes  that  these  arguments  offer
significant improvements to the conceptual framework of evaluation. There is
also the promise of other improvements.   For example,  the DOM analysis
examines the likely effects on the Tarbela evaluation of introducing
radically different policies regarding distribution of incremental supplies
of surface water within the Indus Basin (discussed below in paras. 37-39).
But the four arguments (a) through (d) are certainly relevant to an
evaluation  of  Tarbela  under management policies  pursued  so  far.    Some
comparison between the PCR and DOM estimates ought then to be instructive.
Because the DOM analyses do not handle project public costs and consequently
do not give rise to internal rates of return, the direct comparison has to be
limited to estimated incremental irrigation benefits of Tarbela, with
farmgate prices at domestic prices but with evaluation at border prices.
31.       After growing rapidly between 1976 and 1979, the PCR's estimates of
agricultural value-added during the 18-year period 1980-1997 stabilize in the
range Rs 1.484 billion to Rs 1.921 billion measured in mid-FY83 currency
values; their average over this 18-year period is Rs 1.701 billion.  After
peaking in 1995-97, the estimates decline under the lagged influence of
declining irrigation releases caused by siltation of the Tarbela reservoir.
In comparison, the DOM estimate of long-run value-added, allowing for the
effect of complementary farm investments (but not the imposition of ground-
water balance),  is Rs  1.577 billion annually.8/   The DOM estimate with
groundwater balance imposed is much higher--Rs 3.828 billion--indicating that
the effect of Tarbela on the Basin aquifer has been stabilizing.
32.       Because a groundwater balance of some kind is inevitable in the
long run, the audit favors the higher value-added estimate of DOM, which is
2.25 times the average estimate (for 1980-97) quoted for the PCR.  Were the
PCR estimates of agricultural value added for the entire project period (PCR
Annex 6, Table 4 - agricultural production less agricultural costs) increased
by such a factor of 2.25 and power benefits adjusted only for the lower
energy prices noted in para. 26, the project ERR would be 12.6%, and the
ratio of power benefits to agricultural benefits would be about 1:1.1.
8/   This figure is based on the entry Rs 885.8 million, for the difference
D-C in Table 11 of Duloy and O'Mara, op. cit., which is measured in 1977
rupees.   The Rs 885.8 million has been re-expressed above in mid-FY83
rupees.    For  those who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  term  "groundwater
balance," it reans that the groundwater resource experiences no net
additions or withdrawals on average....in short, that the level of water
table is stabilized.



- 11 -
33.        Comments from the Regional staff of the Bank indicate that they do
not share this willingness to defer fully to the DOM estimates.   Although
they have since made considerable efforts to adopt the DOM model to assist in
some  of  their  recent  operational    work,  they  still  have  many  serious
reservations about its utility, unless the model and its assumptions are
adapted  (further)  for  project  area  specifiL  conditions.           They  are
particularly concerned about lack of information on groundwater recharge
rates with and without Tarbela, and the many specific assumptions and data
input needed to reliably support the DOM computer analysis. They point out
that others in the Bank also shared their reservations about DOM's original
model.9/
34.        The Borrower's comments in the Appendix include a number of other
observations on project benefits: the possibilities that a more mechanized
farm technology (than that posited in the PCR) would be more appropriate,
that the PCR's wheat yields and wheat prices have been underestimated, and
that fisheries benefits ought to be added. The DOM analysis already incorpo-
rates the benefits of complementary farm investments in mechanization.   It
has not been possible for the audit to adjust the (DOM) findings for any
recent developments in wheat yields or prices. Regarding wheat yields, how-
ever, the Borrower is placing too much emphasis on the wheat yields of what
appear to be progressive farmers who make up only a small proportion of wheat
growers.    Regarding  wheat  prices,  the  PCR  assumed  import-parity  prices
through 1984-85 and a linear transition to export-parity prices through
1990.   The Borrower has suggested the use of import-parity prices through
1990. The audit believes the PCR assumptions to be a more accurate reflec-
tion of trends in Pakistan's wheat production. Fishery benefits, believed to
be relatively small, have not been quantified.
35.          Summing up.   Two points arise out of the foregoing comments.
First, the PCR evaluation has likely underestimated the agricultural benefits
of Tarbela and likely overestimated its power benefits, but with little
effect on its ERR estimate. Consequently, the audit accepts the PCR's 12.5%
ERR estimate as a fairly safe one.
36.       Second, and more important, the PCR evaluation reflects a decidedly
different level of effort for an ex post economic analysis compared with what
would be expected for an ex ante analysis. While such a state of affairs is
a common, acceptable economy for most projects, a more symmetrical level of
effort ought to be justified, as a matter of policy, for giant projects.  A
thorough ex post economic evaluation of projects like Tarbela ought to be
seen as a necessary companion to the feasibility study of any subsequent
giant project in the same basin in which the Bank has an interest, such as,
for instance, Kalabagh Dam. Such an evaluation would provide, in a low risk
setting, a detailed appreciation of the issues to be addressed, as well as
the appropriate framework for evaluating minor projects in the same basin.
9/   The Region notes that some of its main concerns with the operational
usefulness of the DOM model are outlined in a memo from the agricultural
Division concerned to Duloy, dated 12/2/82.   It notes further that OED
raised similar concerns in a Study Audit Memorandum, dated 6/5/85,
addressed to the Bank's Research Administrator, Economics and Research
Staff.



- 12 -
Actually, South Asia Projects Department has worked closely with Duloy and
O'Mara and is currently making a major effort to modify the DOM model for
application in some of its operational work, such as evaluating the agricul-
tural impact of Kalabagh. The Region did not use the model in the Tarbela
PCR because of its reservations noted previously in para. 33, and because of
the timing of the two analyses. At the time of preparing the PCR, the Region
felt that the DOM was still too much in the developmental stage. Neverthe-
less, one should not be too surprised at finding analytical shortcuts in PCR
evaluations, given the Bank's staff and other resource constraints for
executing PCRs.   The Bank should reexamine its expectations for completion
reports in the case of major, strategic projects, as a matter of policy.
B.   Irrigation Water Allocation
37.       A major constraint on Tarbela's agricultural impact has been the
administered nature of Indus Basin surface water allocations among Pakistan's
Provinces, the uncertainty as to "final" allocations of additions to this
resource, and the uncertainties this has generated in the minds of Provincial
Governments and farmers for their irrigation investment decisions. This has
been a long standing problem for Pakistan, as are similar aspects of water
allocation for virtually all countries.   The issue is that agricultural
benefits of Tarbela could be increased considerably if water supplies that
are surplus to historical water rights could be allocated according to
regional market demand (given enabling drainage investments in saline ground-
water areas), rather than according to statute.   Attention to this policy
aspect of water development impact in Pakistan is of much more consequence
than recognizing only the size of project impact under existing constraints.
38.       Currently, under post-Tarbela conditions,  only limited gains in
production are possible from increasing canal water deliveries to saline
groundwater (SGW) areas in the Indus Basin because of the need of these areas
for large investments in drainage. Given this drainage, farmers in SGW areas
can generally make better use of additional water than can farmers in fresh
groundwater areas. One factor contributing to high productivity in the SGW
areas of Sind Province, for instance, is their comparative advantage in rice
production. The DOM analyses estimate that giving greater favor to SGW areas
in water allocation could increase agricultural value added in the Basin
(relative to actual post-Tarbela conditions) by some 17% to 20%, and increase
employment by some 14. to 16%.10/
39.       It is particularly important for the Bank, or external agencies
generally, to address such sensitive issues as this one on water allocation,
whenever such agencies have the confidence of Government. Internal agencies
need policy guidance even to begin the analysis.   Hence,  it was highly
commendable of the UNDP and the Bank to participate with WAPDA in carrying
10/ Gerald T. O'Mara and John R. Liloy, "Modelling Efficient Water
Allocation in a Conjunctive Use Regime:  The Indus Basin of Pakistan,"
Water Resources Research, Vol. 20, No. 11, November 1984. Note that the
Borrower has listed a number of reservations about this aspect of the
DOM analyses (Appendix, para. 5).



- 13 -
out the kind of study which gave rise to the DOM and like analyses dealing
with Tarbela's impact on agriculture.   Its results, notwithstanding their
controversial nature, are suggestive that changes in water allocation policy
would be highly complementary with further engineering investments in irriga-
tion water supply.   Devising desirable policy changes that are politically
acceptable is a notable challenge. The invention of such options deserves at
least as much feasibility study as post-Tarbela investments in development
hardware.1!/
C.   Water Resource Planning
40.       The water allocation problem just reviewed is part of the wider
problem of water development planning that was addressed in the Lieftinck
study (PPAM para. 7).   That study was undertaken  to identify investment
priorities among the various components of the water and power system.
Recognizing  the  high  degree  of  interdependence  among  the  different
development and investment decisions, the study attempted carefully to
examine all aspects of agriculture, including ground and surface water, and
the energy sector.   It was concerned about waterlogging and salinity, the
need to integrate ground and surface water development, and the need to
integrate the planning and operation of hydro- and other power development.
Although the study put forth the construction of Tarbela as the centerpiece
of its proposed program, emphasizing that its completion by 1975/76 was
crucial to the overall program,  there was equal  zoncern for the program's
other pieces.   Taken together, they represented a major exercise in sector
planning.
41.       The following assessment of this overall planning effort has been
taken from OED's recent broad review of the Bank's relationship with Pakistan
over the period 1960 to 1984, which offers additional, wider insights into
the Tarbela experience.   While the planning effort receives high praise as
"state of the art", detailed and innovative, the assessment is not too san-
guine about the outcome of such efforts when they are dominated by external
teams, as was the case with this study:
"Participation by the Bank in the Indus Basin Development Project,
and in subsequent support for water resource development--including
irrigation, drainage and salinity control--has been fundamental to
the relatively good performance of Pakistan agriculture."
"But neither the engineering success nor the economic performance
of Tarbela represent a strong vote of confidence in the water
resource planning process.   The project was plagued by unantici-
pated engineering problems and large cost overruns. The acceptable
rate of return achieved by the project, in spite of these deficien-
cies, appears to be more a reflection of the unanticipated in-
creases in energy prices during the 1970s than a testimony to the
11/ The Region comments that it has used various forums of high level
discussion in the past to induce GOP to address this issue, and that it
intends to continue its efforts.



- 14 -
skill or precision of the planning process.  In retrospect, it is
clear that the political commitments made in connection with set-
tlement of the Indus Basin disputes between India and Pakistan have
tended to dominate engineering and economic considerations."
"The Indus Basin is one nf the world's great centers of irrigated
agriculture. The realizatio.: of its production potential has, how-
ever, been inhibited by the difficulty of arriving at a technical
and institutionally viable system for controlling waterlogging and
salinity. Much effort has been spent over the past several decades
by the Government, the U.S. assistance agency, and the World Bank
to find acceptable methods for dealing with these problems. After
two decades of controversy and delay, and many studies, there now
appears to be substantial agreement between the Government and the
Bank on a strategy covering areas that are not saline:   public
tubewells would be gradually phased out and replaced by privately
managed tubewells, plus there would be a program of improved canal
design and more efficient on-farm water management.   It appears,
however, that no long-run program has yet been agreed on for areas
with saline water.   Nor is it clear that effective arrangements
have been developed to replace the public management of the large
tubewells by private management.   As a general conclusion, very
large investment will be required over the next two decades to
maintain or er-iance agricultural productivity in the Indus Basin.
Unfortunately, the development of the institutional capacity to
conduct research and training in Pakistan on water resource
engineering and management has not been an important area of Bank
concern.   As a result, it is not at all clear that the viable
institutional innovations necessary to organize and manage "the
greater Indus Valley water machine" have yet been designed, let
alone implemented."
"The Bank's effectiveness..., depends on the nature of the
country's  problems.    The  Bank can mobilize  funds  and  it  can
organize excellent technical studies, and it can, on the basis of
studies or experience, provide sound advice on a range of sub-
jects. When its rational economic approach is relevant, the Bank
can make a strong contribution. When problems are more involved in
local, social, and political factors, the Bank's contribution may
be less relevant and helpful.  The fact that its presence in the
country is limited, that missions are brief and busy, and that
staff is frequently rotated, all tend to make strong involvement in
the local environment difficult.  This in turn tends to keep Bank
advice at the level of principle and technique, in the common
language of the international technician. While this approach has
its advantage in keeping the Bank at arm's length, so to speak,
where staff may be able to develop a more detached view, it may be
a bar to the kind of deeper understanding which may be necessary



- 15 -
for   effective   assistance   in  some   types   of  institutional
development."12/
D.   Cofinancing Through Development Funds
42.       A large number of countries or entities joined Pakistan in contrib-
uting resources to TDF so that the Baak as Administrator could more easily
supervise efficient procurement and facilitate disbursement on behalf of the
project.   The TDF, and the IBDF before it, have provided ample evidence of
the efficacy of creating special development funds to finance giant civil
works projects.   The related arrangement--having the Bank serve as Admini-
strator of such a fund--deserves to be reviewed by Bank's management if it is
to be used again, to ensure that the Bank's accountability for supervision is
clearly defined and seen to be at least commensurate with the accountability
established for other Bazk-financed projects.
43.       A surprise to the audit was finding that formal supervision reports
with a format comparable to those produced for other projeets in the Bank
date only from August 29, 1980. Consequently, it is not readily discernible
how the lines of responsibility for Tarbela were drawn beyond South Asia
Region over the years, i.e. how the Bank shared its accountability inter-
nally, especially in the period when there was no emergency. Prior to August
1980, the only reports of Bank supervision missions following the 1974 first
filling of the dam were those of the Bank as Administrator and those produced
in the form of Back-to-office reports not widely circulated. Except for the
Special Reports by the Administrator issued between October 1974 and March
1976 following high-level Bank missions, the Administrator's reports were
generally drafted by the Bank's consultants (Gibb) and finalized by Bank
staff. The fact that these latter reports did not serve as an adequate sub-
stitute for a full Bank supervision report is reflected in the emergence of
formal supervision reports in 1980 alongside the Administrator's reports.
44.       Delegation of a large part of the Administrator's project super-
vision responsibility for Tarbela to an engineering consultant and to a firm
of chartered accountants made sense, given the size of the task, and the
intensive technical supervision which they provided has been highly
regarded.   This still left some role for Bank staff, which grew enormously
during the early phase of remedial/repair, and it is this role and how it
might be organized under similar but more normal circumstances in the future
that deserves examination.
45.       The audit believes that the Bank would have mdnaged its responsi-
bilities more consistently had it tried in other respects to treat Tarbela
like any other project within the Bank from the beginning, and designated a
project officer who prepared regular internal reports which were subject to
the same review as other supervision reports.   Granted that such reports
12/  World Bank in Pakistan:   Review of a Relationship 1960-84, OED Report
No. 6804, Volume 1 dated January 27, 1986.   The paragraphs excerpted
are, in sequence, Nos. 2.42, 2.44, 2.45 on irrigation, and No. 2.78 on
energy.



- 16 -
would have been different--the Administrator's Reports prepared by the con-
sultant covered much of the ground already, and had to be addressed to all
members of TDF--but at least such internal supervision reports could have
focussed on the kinds of issues brought to the Bank by the consultant for
decision. It seems to have been essential for the Bank to have at least one
technical staff member to react with its consultant on a full-time basis. In
the absence of the kind of structured information provided by the Bank's
normal supervision process for most of the project's life, it has been diffi-
cult for the audit to determine how Bank staff shared accountability for the
Bank's responsibilities as Fund Administrator.
46.       Note again that this "issue" arises from the unique character of
the Bank's supervision arrangements up to 1980.   The PCR compliments the
Bank's performance (paras. 13.01-13.04), especially its role during the early
phase of remedial/repair (when many outstanding Bank staff were conscript8
to work on Tarbela), and the audit has found no evidence that would dispute
these compliments.   But there is clearly a procedural lesson here for the
Bank in case it again acts as Administrator of a special fund.
E. Priorities in Project Emergencies
47.       What stands out above all else in the Tarbela saga is the way the
responsible parties extricated the project from the threat of even more seri-
ous damages than it sustained in the 1974 tunnel collapse and in subsequent
difficulties. The PCR notes that
(a) the Borrower (GOP), which implemented the project through WAPDA,
gave the project high priority (PCR, para. 11.02); and
(b)  it was clearly important that when the great emergency of the tun-
nel failure occurred in 1974, attention was forussed on repair
rather than on assessing blame (PCR, para. 13.04).
The disciplined behavior observed by GOP in establishing the right climate
within which the other parties could respond to this emergency was by far the
most significant contribution toward getting  the priorities  right.   GOP
quickly established a special Cabinet Committee to provide institutional sup-
port and quick decisions at the highest level, but it also sustained the pri-
orities in favor of repair and completion over a long period. A measure of
the strain imposed on GOP following the emergency can be gauged from the fact
that local currency expenditures on the proiect from 1975 until 1982 totalled
US$269 million equivalent, compared with US$384 million equivalent beforehand
(PCR, para. 10.06).  The project was also continuing to absorb after 1974 a
significant share of available foreign aid and goodwill. Much of these post-
1974 expenditures was unexpected, and many other government activities had to
be sacrificed for a whole decade to bring the project to completion.   This
disciplined commitment to the project, together with the priorities for
repair rather than blame, must rank as an outstanding political and technical
achievement and a model for how borrowers and financiers should respond to
emergency situations in large civil works.



- 17 -
U.P.M
Water And Power Development Authority
Teephosol_ 212825                             Dams & Coord. Dltision
T&g,mui WAPDA LAHORE                            511-VAPDA House
Lahore
___ _30/_30_5_                        D$  June lb, 1986
Mr Otto Maiss
Acting Director
Operations Evaluation Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Project Performance Audit Report
-fki*'tan:  Far ea Dam Poje00
(LoanAi4S . and Credits 581- and
771-PAIKL -
I am directed to refer to your letter dated
April 9, 1986 on the subject matter and to enclose a
oopy of WAPDA Comments on the draft of Project Per-
formance Audit Memorandum for your further appropriate
action.
General Manager
Dams and Coordination
Encls-as above
cc:      Ministry of Water & Power, Government of
Pakistan, Islamabad                w/enl
Attention: Mr Navaid All Nasri
Joint Secretary (W)
with reference to Telex
Message No.UA-8(257)/86
dated June 3, 1986                N



I
bG~~~L
Nl     "S
X~~~~~~ IT
1,,I



- 19 -                    ,Appendix
COMMENTS ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT (LOAN 548 & CREDIT 581 & 771 PAK)
.The PCR economic evaluation of Tarbela Dam gives Economic
'Rate of Return (ERR) of 12.5%. The study has attributed 75%
Benefits to power and remaining to water as a result of crop
production. As pointed out in the project performance audit
report the rate of return can be improved by increasing the
incremental benefits by 59% due to environmental impact. Furthecrmc,e.
we have some observations which, if adopted,,could further improve
*tJ,e internal economic rate of return (IERR).
i.     CROP YIELDS
*       .The ultimate yields of wheat have been projected at 3 tons
per hectare in 1994-95. A recent short survey undertaken by (P&I)
WApda in Sahiwal and Faisalabad districts has revealed that progre-
ssive farmers are achieving yields in the range of 3 to 4 tons per
li,ctare, which indicates that the projected yield of 3 tons per
hectare is on the lower side in view of multiplier impact of
improve,1 technological pattern by majority of farmers.
2.     ECONOMIC PRICE OF WHEAT
The economic price of wheat is based on the assumption that
wheat would be a net export commodity from 1984 onward. Ilowever,
Pakistan has not yet emerged as a net exporter of wheat. We view
that Pakistan would not be able to become a net exporter of wheat
till 1990, considering population growth rate of more than 3% and
immense need of buffer stocks from security point of view. It -is apprc-
prtate therefore tocompute economic prices of wheat on the basis of
import commodity upto 1990. Import parity price for 1982-83
according to our calculations  was       in the range of Rs.2700/Ton.
We therefore, feel that the prices of wheat may be adjusted upward
accordingly which will also lead to greater value of production
and consequently IERR.



- 20 -
Appendix
3.   INPUT AND OUTPUT RELATIONSHIP
The analysis by PCR has been based on Bullock Technology.
We agree with the co-offlotents used In the analysis, however,
the techrology1has changed.  A recent survey by f&I shows that
ioo   farmers are using threshers.  Use of Tractor is now
prevAillng In preparatory tillage almost all over in Fresh ground-
water areas, whil, nearly.50% farmers are using tractor in saline
.ar,as for Land preparation.  Thus the adoption of improved
toehnology may also result in higher returns.
4..  FISHERIES DEVELOPMENI
. . The benefits from fisheries development in the dam lake have
not been Included In the benefit stream. A realistic estimate of
benefits should be included.
RUVISED ESTIMATE OF IERR
5.v The report under review has pointed out by referring to the
DOM'analysis 7that given the drainage, and preference to SGW areas
in water allocation, the value added in the basin could increase
by some 17 to 20% and employment by some i4 to 16%.' However,
the assumptions and input data on which this observation is based
are not given In thexr paper. In order to make meaningful comments
on this statement, a copy of the print out of the Model along with
input data and assumption is needed. There are, however, some
general observations in favour of FGW areas viz-a-viz SGW areas
and are detailed as under :-
a/       It is generally observed that in certain areas of
saline water zone, the Drainage costs are exorbitantly
high and it is considered economically unviable to
make any investments in such areas. Therefore, the
question of water allocation to such areas is
meaningless.
1/   Gerald T.O'Mara and John H. Duloy, NModelling Efficient
waler Allocation in a Conjunctive Use Regime: The Indus
Basin of Pakistan", Water Resources Research, Vol.20 No.11,
November, 1984.



-21 -                         Apendix
b/        Pumping of water In fresh groundwater areas will
necessitate the reeharge of such areas by supplying
additional canal water.
c/       Comparative advar.tage in the production of rice in
SGW area has been argued in the report. It way be
pointed- out that most of the SGW areas are suitable
for production of coarse rice, whose comparative
price is very low.
d/       In saline groundwater areas the cropping pattern are
generally of specilic nature, i.e. only -hose crops
suitable for saline zone can be grown whereas In FGW
areas, we have the option of determining the optimal
cropping pattern based on comparative advantage of
various competing crops under domestic as well as
international prices.
e/       Drainage is a cost in the production prooess. In FGW
areas, we incur cost on physical inputs only for
crop production whereas in SGW areas drainage should
be considered as additional cost and therefore the
net proritability per cropped acre wi1l naturally
be much lower in SGW as compared to PGW areas.
G1,NERAL COM1X:E'rS
6 ".  'rhe DOM Report assumes that tractor technology would be
stimulated by the increased availability of canal and groundwater.
This should not be considered as an entirely dependent benefit
because tractor technology would have developed as a part of
global progress even without getting stimulation from increased
availability of canal water.
7.   Para 32 of Project Performance Audit Memorandum (Page 19)
refers to irrigation water allocation among Pakistan's l'rovinws.
It is coiisidered that the excerpt from the paragraph reproduced
below be suitably modified to omit reference to phrases such as
"politicized n.ature" and "lack of decision on final allocation" :-
"A major constraint on Tarbela's agriculture impact
has been the thoroughly politicized nature of Indus
Basin surface water allocations among Pakistan's
Provinces, the lack of decisions still on "final"
allocations of additions to this resource , and the
uncertainties this has generated in the minds of
Provincial Governments and farmers for their irriga-
tion investment decisions. "



- 22 -                   Appendix
8,   Similarly, In para 34 reference to *politically" deadlocked
*issues as this one on water allocation" may be omitted.
* * ; ROJECT cOMM}T-UllN . r * OR
Last Para of Chapter VII of Project Completion Report mentions
about the damage caused by dislodging of concrete block from central
dividing wall of stilling basin of Tunnel No. 3. Damaged basin floor
was reDaired by O&M Crews in Jan. 1985 using "Hydrocrete", an under-
water concrete product. Later towards the end of i985, the
stilling basin was inspected in the dry when dowatering was
possible after construction of a downstream cofferdam in connection
Wlth Powerhouse uk;xtension Project and the underwater repairs were
found in sound condition.
10. Para 8.07(C) of P.C.R refers to strengthening of hoist towers
for outlet gates of Tunnels 3,4 and 5 as set forth in TAMS report
of May 1982. It may be noted that strengthening of hoist tower
for Tunnel 4 outlet gate only is envisaged at present.  Tunnel 5
* hoist 'towers are conventional reinforced concrete structures with
intermediate piers already provided. Work on construction of power
units No. 11 to 14 on Tunnel No. 3 is schleduled to commence in
the fall of 1986 and would be completed by 1990. Strengthening of
hoist towers on Tunnel 3 is, therefore, not considered essential
for the short intervening period.
.11. All in all, we agree 'with the finding of PCR. However,
updating the information base regarding crop yields, economic
prices of wheat and inclusion of fisheries benefits in the stream
.of benefits as well as environmental impact will further enhance
the economic benefits & IERR estimated at 12.5% in the PCR.



- 23 -
CONFIDENTIAL
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
April 1984
Irrigation I Division
South Asia Projects Department



(  -"I ,
-3 ~ ~ ~ ~ fi            1
hef'                             >,fo  ,vk/A    /_



- 25 -
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAI PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Indus and Its tributaries have sustained civilizations for 4,500
years, remaining as vital to present day Pakistan as they were to ilarappa and
Moenjadaro four millenia ago. Since rainfall is low and variable over most
of the country, irrigatikn is a necessity for a viable agriculture.  Of a
total cultivated area of about 20 M ha (25% of the land area), some 12 M ha
are serviced by canal irrigation, 4.5 M ha by small streams, springs, wells
and seasonal flooding, and only 3.5 M ha are cultivated under often very
uncertain barani (rainfed) conditions. Indicative of its importance, it is
estimated that irrigated agriculture accounts for more than 90% of value
added in the sector (equivalent to almost 30% of GDP), supports directly or
indirectly perhaps 60-70% of the population, and contributes to almost two
thirds of total exports.
1.02    Virtually the entire canal irrigated system derives its supplies from
the Indus and its tributaries, and the canals, dams and barrages constructed
since 1859 represent the largest contiguous and interdependent irrigation
system in the world. Besides the rivers, this system currently comprises two
major storage dams, nineteen barrages-cum-headworks, twelve major link canals
to transfer water between rivers, forty three canal commands and about 89,000
water courses. The combined length of the canal system is about 58,500 km
(36,350 miles), of the water courses and farm channels about 1.6 M km (1.0 M
miles) and of the surface drain system about 14,400 km (8,950 miles). In
addition to the canal system, many public and smaller private tubewells, both
within and outside the canal commanded areas, help control water levels and
provide additional irrigation supplies based on the vast aquifer which under-
lies the Indus plain.
1.03    Access to the waters of the Indus system is therefore of crucial
national importance. While over 90% of the fertile Indus plain lies within
Pakistan, its share of the combined catchment area of 950,000 sq km (367,000,
sq miles) is only 60%, with the headwaters of all the major rivers rising
beyond Pakistan's borders.  Furthermore, given the low rainfall levels, the
major part of the system's mean annual run-off (81 BCM or 66 MAF at Tarbela)
is derived from the mountains to the north and west (the Himalayas, the
Parrios and the Hindukush) which lie primarily in India, Tibet, Kashmir and
Afghanistan.



- 26 -
CHAPTER II. BACKGROUND
2.01    Partition of the Indian Sub-Continent in 1947 divided the then
unified irrigation system, leaving the headwaters of the Punjab tributaries
in India. As a result, extensive areas of irrigated land in Pakistan, espe-
cially in the water short Sutlej commands, were placed at risk. That the
danger was real was demonstrated as early as April 1948 when India took
initial steps to divert the waters of the three eastern-most tributaries,
the Sutlej, the Beas and the Ravi.
2.02    The Indus Water Treaty.  The Indian action created a crisis between
the two nations threatening to add a perennial bone of contention to their
already troubled relations. That this was averted owed much to the influence
of the World Bank and its role in facilitating the negotiations which led up
to the 1960 Indus Water Treaty.  The two countries accepted the Bank's offer
to help with the dispute in 1952. In 1954, tentative proposals were made for
the division of the waters and the firm of Tippets-AbbettMcCarthy-Stratton
(TAKS) was retained to provide technical assistance and to carry out
hydrologic studies of the proposed plan. These studies established the basic
adequacy of the plan, examined a number of possible alternatives and demon-
strated the need for reservoir capacity to store surplus waters of the west-
ern rivers for timely release and conveyance to irrigated areas in Pakistan.
2.03    In the spring of 1959 an agreement in principle was reached on
(i) the basic division of the Indus waters, (ii) the general features of the
works to be constructed in Pakistan to implement the division and (iii) the
amount India would contribute toward the cost. Following this agreement, it
took about a year and a half of further discussions to agree on the details
of the Treaty and especially on the provisions for the transition period,
i.e., the ten-year period (or longer) during which the works involved would
be under construction. Immediately following the "agreement in principle",
Pakistan established an Indus Basin Advisory Board (IBAB) with a view to
accelerating the initiation of the works proposed for Pakistan, once the
forthcoming treaty became a reality.  Concurrently with the negotiations the
Bank had canvassed a group of friendly nations, the Pakistan Consortium, for
funds to cover the major portion of the "Settlement Plan", the scheme of
works to be built in Pakistan.
2.04    The treaty was signed on September 19, 1960, with the World Bank a
signatory for certain specified purposes. Briefly, the treaty allotted to
India the waters of the three eastern rivers of the Punjab (the Ravi, the
Beas and the Sutlej, with a total annual mean flow of 40.7 BCM (33 1IAF)),
leaving to Pakistan the waters of the three western rivers (the Indus, the
Jhelum and the Chenab). Under a concurrent agreement, the Indus Basin
Development Fund Agreement, provision was made for two major storage
projects, one on the Jhelum (Mangla) and one on the Indus (Tarbela), as well
as for a huge system of barrages and canals to divert and conduct waters from
the western rivers to irrigate land which had traditionally been supplied
fFom the eastern rivers (the so-called replacement works). The Bank was
appointed Administrator of the IBDF and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) was appointed executive agency of the Government of
Pakistan (GOP).



- 27 -
2.05    The Replacement Works.  The total resources of IBDF initially
amounted to US$894 M (US$632 M in foreign currency), but this was increased
to US$1,209 M(US$946 M in foreign currency) under an April 1964 Supplemental
Agreement. Pakistan accepted responsibility for meeting from its own resour-
ces all further rupee requirements. It was also agreed that the augmented
resources would be applied first to meet the costs of the works excluding
Tarbela, and in the early 1960s, WAPDA, assisted by international consultants
and contractors, initiated construction of the following works:
(a) Mangla Dam on the Jhelum River to conserve surplus water from
the summer monsoon periods;
(b) Six barrages to make diversions from the main rivers; and
(c) Eight link can.1s to convey water generally eastward from the
western rivers.
2.06    With minor exceptions, these replacement works were completed by 1970
on schedule and represented one of the largest, most complex and most suc-
cessful programs of construction ever attempted anywhere. Nevertheless, as
implied by the term 'replacement', these works contributed little that was
additional to Pakistan's agriculture (although additional power generating
capacity was provided at Mangla). It had always been understood that in
return for renouncing all claims to the eastern rivers, and in addition to
the replacement works, Pakistan would also be assisted in a significant way
to add to its agricultural capacity. Originally, the treaty had provided for
construction of a main stream dam on the Indus at Tarbela, and it was there-
fore agreed that, provided the project proved technically and economically
viable, the Tarbela site would be developed fully rather than partially as
would have been required to meet only replacement needs. It was further
agreed that any resources remaining in the IBDF after completion of the
original replacement works would be allocated to Tarbela.
2.07    Effect on Other Programs.  The immense effort represented by the IBDP
and Tarbela programs inevitably absorbed the major proportion of external aid
as well as significant amounts of domestic resources. It also tended to
divert attention away from downstream problems associated with the operation
of Pakistan's enormous network of irrigation facilities. Generally, original
design criteria of the canal system evolved to fit availability of water
supplies in the rivers, to meet the objective of bringing to maturity the
largest possible area of crops with the minimum consumption of water, and to
operate at a low cost and with a limited number of technical staff. These
resulted in low cropping intensities and low yields. While these irrigation
schemes were historically very successful in generating agricultural
surpluses at a time of low population densities and few technological
demands, they have been less well adapted to the requirements of modern
agriculture. In an attempt to meet rising demands, flows in excess of
designed capacities are now being carried in many canals, placing great
stress on the system and increasing significantly the risk of failure. Addi-
tionally, the huge size of the system makes large continuing maintenance
demands and mitigates against close control and scheduling of water supplies.



- 28 -
Furthermore, the system was largely developed without provision of complemen-
tary drainage facilities. Although over the years a fairly large network of
surface drains has been constructed, these were often based on limited tech-
nical criteria and data. As a result of inadequate drainage, over time the
watertable underlying the Indus plain has risen, leading to serious problems
of waterlogging and soil salinity in certain areas.
2.08    The SCARP Program.  With expected completion of IBDP and Tarbela
works in the mid-1970s, GOP shifted emphasis to resolving these waterlogging
and salinity problems, launching in 1973 an accelerated program of waterlog-
ging and salinity control (SCARP Program) with construction activities again
entrusted to WAPDA. Previously, however, waterlogging and salinity had not
been entirely neglected; the first integrated project to provide a comprehen-
sive system of surface and tubewell drainage in an area of the Punjab, SCARP
I, dated back to the 1950s. Planning studies undertaken in the 1960s rein-
forced this approach, identified additional areas suitable for SCARP
projects, proposed a major system of surface drains to dispose of saline
effluent, and emphasized irrigation benefits that could be obtained from
canal remodelling and from SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater areas.
Remedial measures provided under SCARPs attempt to lower groundwater levels
through tubewell pumping and, to a limited extent, through tile drainage.
Pumping from fresh water aquifers likewise provides an additional source of
irrigation water and enables leaching of salts from saline soils. Under the
SCARPs, WAPDA to date has installed about 12,000 public tubewells, and
individual farmers have installed over 180,000 tubewells all of which con-
tribute in varying degrees to water supplies and to watertable control.
2.09    The SCARP Program, however, has not been without its problems.  Its
comprehensive approach to area development and emphasis on construction
through WAPDA have, as in the case of the IBDP/Tarbela works, tended uninten-
tionally to divert attention away from water management, on-farm development,
and related issues. Financial and other constraints have slowed implementa-
tion, and establishment of large public sector tubewell fields have placed an
on-going financial burden on operating agencies (provincial Irrigation
Departments) and have seriously restricted funds available for normal main-
tenance of the surface distribution and drainage system. In addition, this
program has had technical and operational problems. Tubewell (TW) life has
been less than planned (10-15 years instead of the assumed 30-40 years) and
because of plugging of screens and gravel packs, the capacity of most TWs
decreases about 5 percent annually. Watertables have been lowered and
irrigation supplies supplemented, but efficient management of public
tubewells generally has proved elusive. Furthermore, the addition of Tarbela
water, while significantly increasing dry season cropping, has also tended to
aggravate waterlogging problems in certain areas 1/ and brought into focus
concerns about overall efficiencies in the use of irrigation supplies. These
concerns were heightened further by the demonstration under a USAID-funded
1/ Soil salinity survey completed by WAPDA in 1980 indicated that about 35%
of the Indus Plain has a watertable at less than 10 feet below ground
surface.



- 29 -
research project that water losses in the system, especially at the water-
course level, were significantly higher than had been previously assumed. 1/
2.10    Revised Action Program.  Increasingly during the 1970s, therefore, it
became recognized that a more direct approach to the problems of management,
maintenance, ane. efficiency in the operation of Pakistan's irrigation system
was required, and further, that such an approach would need to be more
closely attuned to the immediate constraints on agricultural production than
in the past. To help evolve necessary policies and programs to implement
such a strategy, a UNDP-financed and World Bank-executed study was mounted to
prepare a Revised Action Program (RAP) for irrigated agriculture. While
recognizing that programs to increase availability of water and other inputs
will continue to be important, RAP recommended in 1979 that greater priority
be given to complementary measures designed to ensure their efficient use, in
particular through farm-level programs and mobilization of private initiative
and capital. Recognition was given to the capacity of the farmer to respond
to appropriate incentives as well as to the need to generate additional
resources in both the public and private sectors to relieve acute resource
constraints facing Pakistan. In light of these considerations, RAP recom-
mended: (a) investment policies that emphasized qu;ok returns and that
complemented existing facilities rather than expansion of irrigated area
(rehabilitation, on-farm and watercourse improvements, essential drainage,
and agricultural support services); (b) management policies that transferred
relevant activities to the private sector (e.g., tubewell development in
fresh groundwater areas) and that strengthened GOP operating agencies; and
(c) pricing policies that recognized continuing resource constraints and the
need to provide appropriate efficiency signals to the private sector.
2.11    RAP recommendations in large measure have been accepted by GOP.  A
program of watercourse improvements is underway and one for rehabilitating
the irrigation system is being activated. 2/ Other proposed projects result-
ing from the RAP recommendations currently7under preparation include: a
private tubewell and rural electrification project designed to promote
private groundwater development; a SCARP transition program to transfer
groundwater management in selected fresh water SCARP areas from public to
private sector; and a command area water management program emphasizing
improved management of existing systems, together with complementary physical
improvements. 3/
2.12    Summary.  The successful implementation of Indus Basin works
facilitated division of Indus waters, and Tarbela, despite technical
1/  Seepage and operational losses measured under operating conditions were
found to be 40-60 percent (ANNEX 7, item 22).
2/ On-farm Water Management Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) and Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-PAK).
3/ Project preparation is being financed under the UNDP Umbrella
(PAK/78/044), with the Bank as Executing Agency.



- 30 -
problems, has greatly added to dependable irrigation supplies and power
generating capacity. The Tarbela Power Plant constitutes about 30 percent of
the nation's electric generating capacity and the power production has been
immediately absorbed as units came on line. In water management the situa-
tion is constantly improving. Much work at all levels has greatly increased
the awareness and definition of major problems. Proper policies have been
adopted and complimentary programs are now in place.
CHAITER III. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.01    GOP established the Dam Investigation Circle in 1953 to carry out
feasibility studies of possible dam sites on the Indus, Jhelum and Chenab,
and as early as 1954 their consultants (Tipton and Hill, Inc.) had submitted
a report declaring feasible construction of a dam at Tarbela to impound 5.2
BCM (4.2 MAF) of live storage. The Tarbela Dam Organization (TDO) under the
sponsorship of WAPDA was established in 1959 and WAPDA's general consultants
(Harza Engineering Company International) conducted preliminary investigation
of three possible dam locations in the Tarbela region. In February 1960,
TAMS was appointed Project Consultant to the TDO and entrusted with site
investigations, project planning, preparation of detailed designs and con-
tract documents, and supervision of project construction once a decision to
proceed had been made. In line with the decision to develop the site fully,
TAIS submitted a Project Planning Report in January 1964 recommending con-
Struction of an earth dam 14b m (485 ft) high to create a reservoir of 13.7
BCM (11.8 MAF) gross storage capacity, the size of dam and reservoir that
were eventually constructed.
3.02    From the outset and to this day, Tarbela has required a sustained
international funding effort. The other Indus works (para 2.05) had consumed
the bulk of the original and supplemental Indus Basin Funds leaving an insuf-
ficient balance available for construction of a dam on the Indus. The
estimated balance remaining in the Indus Fund after financing Mangla Dam and
the barrages and link canals was US$324 M, about two-thirds of the then
estimated total funds reqvired for Tarbela.
3.03    In view of the shortage of funds remaining for Tarbela, the
feasibility and costs of Tarbela were reviewed. It was not until February
1965, after an independent study by a group of consulting engineering firms
reatained by the World Bank - Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, Hunting Technical
Services, Ltd., Charles T. Main and Stone & Webster - had confirmed the
technical feasibility and economic soundness of Tarbela, that work on the
project again began to move ahead. The final report of the World Bank cover-
ing the independent studies was completed in 1967 (see ANNEX 7, item 4). It
considered the entire water and power resources of West Pakistan and recon-
firmed the necessity for Tarbela in the overall development program. It
recommended construction of Tarbela Dam in a single stage of optimum height
plus a powerhouse having an ultimate installed capacity of 2,100 MW.
3.04    In November 1966, the Bank presented to the Pakistan Consortium the
estimated financial requirements for Tarbela together with the expected
surplus available from the Indus Basin Development Fund and asked that member



- 31 -
countries offer loans to cover the shortfall in foreign exchange. Nego-
tiations culminated in the Consortium meeting held at Paris in March 1968
where members and the Bank agreed to make additional grants and loans to
cover fully the financing of the project. Following the pattern of replace-
ment works, the Tarbela Development Fund (TDF) was established in 1968 with
foreign exchange contributions amounting to US$149 M from Canada, France,
Italy, United Kingdom and the United States; US$25 M in a Bank loan
(548-PAK); and an estimated surplus of US$318 M from IBDF, making US$492 M in
all to meet an estimated foreign currency requirement of US$484 M. As in the
case of the Indus Basin Development Fund (para 2.04), the Bank was appointed
Administrator of TDF. Pakistan agreed to meet all rupee costs. With financ-
ing arrangements completed, the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement was signed
on May 2, 1968, and the US$623 M Tarbela Contract (US$360 M in foreign
exchange), the then largest contract in the history of civil engineering
construction, was awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB). On
November 4, 1968, the President of Pakistan officiated at the groundbreaking
ceremony for Tarbela.
3.05    As a consequence of damage to certain facilities of the Tarbela
Project during the first reservoir filling in the summer of 1974 (para 7.01),
additional finance was required to meet the cost of repairs and additional
works considered necessary for project completion. Under the Tarbela
Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement 1975, US$37 M was contributed by
the United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Australia and IDA (US$8 M)
(581-PAK). In addition, Canada agreed to make available on an untied basis
the balance of approximately US$3 M outstanding from its original tied con-
tribution to the Fund. These special contributions were to be disbursed
against specified works as had been determined by the Administrator. The
cost of the repairs and additional works not so determined have been met from
the general resources of TDF.
3.06    After completion of the original repairs and remedial works, further
adverse developments gave rise to the need for additional works. The
available foreign exchange resources of TDF were insufficient to meet
the estimated costs of these further works. Accordingly, the (Second
Supplemental) Agreement 1978 was drawn up to help meet the remaining cost of
completing the project. Under this (Second Supplemental) Agreement, con-
tributions amounting to US$79 M were to be received from Canada, Germany,
Italy, United Kingdom, and IDA (US$35 M)(771-PAK). In addition, the European
Economic Community (EEC) provided US$14 M equivalent in two credits: Kuwait
provided US$18 M, Saudi Arabia US$60 M and Abu Dhabi US$25 M. As discussed
in para 8.04 additional funds have been provided for operation and main-
tenance (O&M) purposes.
3.07    Pakistan has financed all rupee costs of TDF, including the Sup-
plementary Agreements of 1975 and 1978, the entire costs of Tunnel 5, the
power plant units and equipment and the primary transmission lines, equiv-
alent to more than US$1,275 M including duties and taxes of about US$340 M
(Chapter X and ANNEX 4 for financing details).



- 32 -
CHAPTER IV. PRINCIPAL PROJECT FEATURES
4.01    Tarbela Dam is a remarkable engineering achievement in many respects.
It is the largest (in volume) embankment-type dam in the world; fifty percent
larger than the next largest. The dam stands on such a great depth (600
feet-160 m) of highly pervious alluvium that a conventional vertical cut-off
wall was impractical and use was made of an upstream "blanket" to reduce
underflow seepage. Tarbela is more than twice as high as the next largest
embankment dam employing an upstream blanket and was the first to be con-
structed on foundations with such extensive associations of openwork gravels
(gravels without sands fully filling the voids). The tunnels are very large
and the steel tunnel liners were the largest ever made. The stilling basins
at the tunnel outlets are unique energy dissipators for low-level tunnel
outlets, with hydraulic forces more than twice that of the next comparable
structure. The tunnel outlet gates were the largest ever made for use at
such high head. The spillways are some of the largest ever constructed, and
in contrast with others, those at Tarbela must be used at high discharges for
three months of every year.
4.02.   The principal elements of the Tarbela Project (see Map) are:
(a)  The main dam, an earth and rock-fill embankment-type, across the
Indus River Valley;
(b)  On the left bank -
(i) two auxiliary earth and rock-fill embankment-type dams
to close two saddles in the left reservoir rim and at the
upstream end of a side valley,
(ii) two spillways discharging into plunge pools in the side
valley with a natural rock weir in the side valley
maintaining water levels in the spillway plunge pools,
and
(iii) a tunnel (Tunnel No. 5) discharging into the side valley
for irrigation releases;
(c) On the right bank -
(i) a group of four tunnels (Tunnels 1-4) through the right
abutment to provide for (1) river diversion during the
last phase of construction of the main dam, (2) irrigation
releases and (3) releases for power production,
(ii) a powerplant and switchyard, and
(d) The impounded reservoir.
4.03    Construction of the foregoing facilities began in mid-1968 and
proceeded on schedule; filling of the reservoir commenced with the impounding



- 33 -
of the snow-melt and monsoon river flows of 1974. In August 1974, a series
of difficulties developed which set in motion a repair/remedial program which
extended over a 10-year period (see Chapter VII).
4.04    Construction was under a single civil works contract which required
the contractor to complete all construction including the powerhouse build-
ing. The gates, power units, switch gear, cables, etc., were manufactured
under separate contracts managed by WAPDA but the civil works contractor was
required to collect these items at point of manufacture, ship to site and
complete installation.
4.05    Additional details on the construction program and schedule are given
in Chapter VI and physical descriptions of the Tarbela facilities are given
in ANNEX 1. Details of Tarbela Project statistics and comparisons with other
projects are given in ANNEX 2. Details of project financing are given in
Chapter X and in greater detail in ANNEX 4.
CHAPTER V. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND MA4AGENENT
5.01    A number of agencies have been involved and have played significant
roles in the work on the Tarbela Project. They are shown on Plate 1 which
also shows the general relationships.
5.02    The Contributors.  Foreign currency capital resources were con-
tributed to IBDF and to TDF by 10 nations, the EEC and through 6 loans or
credits.l/ Throughout the long period of the Bank's administration of these
funds, the response, assistance and cooperation of the contributors was
outstanding. Money was always available when it was needed, first through
the Pakistan Consortium and the Bank's efforts and later from Middle East
countries under bilateral agreements negotiated by GOP when the earlier
sources were drying up. Particularly helpful was the willingness of the
early contributor community to place the money at the disposal of the Bank to
manage as a common pool. The resulting flexibility in management of TDF was
particularly needed and useful during the periods of emergency and during the
remedial/repair program. The contributions from the Abu Dhabi, Kuwait and
Saudi loans, which came later, were received on a reimbursement basis, fol-
lowing initial disbursements from the TDF, in addition to the Banks normal
1/ The IBDF received contributions from Australia, Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, the United Kingdom and the
USA plus an IBRD loan (266-PAK) and an IDA credit (60-PAK). Direct contribu-
tions to TDF were from Australia, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Italy, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the USA and the European
Economic Community, and from an EEC Special Action Credit (51-PAK), an IBRD
loan (548-PAK) and two IDA credits (581-PAK and 771-PAK). The contributions
to the project from the Middle East funds (Abu Dhabi, Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia) were not made in advance of disbursement except for some direct
payments for one contract not administered by TDF.



- 34 -
role of disbursing the rupee components of financing. This procedure did not
provide the same flexibility and involved cousiderably more work, time and
attention, particularly by GOP, WAPDA and Gibb. A lesson learned is that for
such a large project, with numerous contributors, a common pool of funds
results in more flexible fund management to the advantage of the project.
5.03    WAPDA.  The Indus and Tarbela Fund Agreements provided that the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) appoint an agency to carry out the obligations
of the agreements. The appointed agency was the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA). WAPDA is a semi-autonomous agency of GOP. Its function
is the development of major water resources, and the gene.ation, transmission
and distribution of power. Management of WAPDA is by a governing body con-
sisting of the Chairman and three Members representing the three major divi-
sions: the Water Wing, the Power Wing and Finance. WAPDA exercised its
responsibility and authority through its main office in Lahore and through a
substantial staff at the project site and was involved with not only all of
the work on the project facilities but also was responsible for land acquisi-
tion and resettlement.
5.04    Project Consultant.  The Project Consultant for the Tarbela Project
was Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton (TAMS) of New York, N.Y., USA.  TANS
was the "Engineer" as defined in the Contract for the construction of the
Tarbela Project. TANIS was responsible for all engineering and construction
and contract administration at Tarbela and for assistance during the first
years of operation. Both the New York office and a site office were heavily
involved in the work. TAMS field organization at the peak included 65
expatriates. TAMS also had a large Pakistani staff at site, 1,600 at peak,
as well as Pakistani engineers seconded to the New York office. In addition,
TANS employed a number of distinguished engineers and scientists, with
WAPDA's concurrence, as special consultants. The Special Consultants, as
they became known, were mainly concerned with matters of principle rather
than of design detail. They individually and collectively advised on matters
of geology, soils, hydraulics, models, seismicity, drainage, rock mechanics,
grouting, concrete and sedimentation.
5.05    General Consultant. Harza Engineering Company International was
General Consultant to WAPDA on all Indus Basin Project work and also reviewed
Tarbela work. Harza's General Consultant responsibilities were carried out
by a site representative at Tarbela, an office in Lahore and the main office
in Chicago, Illinois, USA.
5.06    Contractor.  The civil engineering contractor, Tarbela Joint Venture
(TJV), was a consortium of heavy civil engineering contractors sponsored by
Impresit-Girola-Lodigiani (IMPREGILO) S.p.A., of Milan, Italy. Other members
of the consortium included Costruzioni Generali Farsura "Cogefar" S.p.A.,
Milan; Impresa Astaldi Estero S.p.A., Rome; Compagnie de Constructions Inter-
nationales (CCI), Paris; Compagnie Francaise d'Entreprises (CFE), Paris; and
Societe de Construction de Batignolles, Paris. In March 1969, five German
and two Swiss contractors joined the consortium: iochtief AG, Essen; Philipp
Holzmann AG, Frankfurt; Strabag Bau AG, Cologne; Ed Zueblin AG, Duisberg;
C. Baresel AG, Stuttgart; Conrad Zschokke AG, Geneva; and Losinger AG, Berne.
In September 1977 the consortium was renamed Indus River Contractors (IRC)
for executing the new contracts and "Cogefar" was replaced by "Impresa Angelo



- 35 -
Farsura." At the peak of work the Contractor had about 16,000 employees,
including large management and office staffs, a number of subcontractors,
construction equipment valued at over US$100 million, extensive shops and
vast inventories of materials and spare parts. Large colony complexes on
both banks of the river included all necessary community facilities and
services.
5.07    The World Bank.  As pointed out previously, the Bank has participated
continuously since the early 1950s in all phases of the Indus Basin and
Tarbela Projects. The Bank played particularly important roles in settlement
of the water dispute between Pakistan and India which resulted in the Indus
Water Treaty and the construction of works under the Indus Basin Development
Fund Agreement, as Administrator of both the IBDF and the TDF, and in review
of technical studies and the construction program. A number of senior Bank
officials as well as members of project and program staffs and staff of Legal
and Controller's departments have been involved.
5.08    Under the Agreements of 1968, 1975, 1978 and 1980 1/ the Bank acts as
Administrator for the Project and disburses all funds contributed. In its
capacity as Administrator of TDF, the Bank receives the contributions from
the parties, including the transfer from IBDF, holds the assets of the Fund
in trust, and disburses the resources of the Fund to meet expenditures of the
Project. The Bank, as Administrator, is also responsible for the general
supervision of the Project on behalf of the parties to the Agreements, and
provides technical assistance as needed. The Bank provides contributors and
other interested parties with semi-annual progress reports and also prepares
quarterly financial statements.
5.09    As Administrator of IBDF and TDF, the Bank represented the interna-
tional community of lenders and donors. The need to give prudent management
to these funds, together with the large contributions by Pakistan, for a
construction program of unprecedented magnitude complicated by the Tarbela
remedial/repair program resulted in very broad and deep involvement by the
Bank; beyond fund management into project management, administration, techni-
cal analysis and technical decisions. The Bank was greatly assisted in this
work by Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.
5.10    World Bank Consultants.  Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, Reading
(formerly London), England, have been consultants to the Bank since 1960,
first in the work under the IBDF and later under TDF. Gibb reviewed engineer-
ing proposals, plans and designs, contractual and financial aspects, attended
meetings, witnessed model tests and observed construction quality and
progress. Following the onset of problems in 1974 (para 7.01), Gibb's terms
of reference were broadened to play a more direct part in the development of
design changes for the remedial work. In 1979, Gibb's role was expanded
1/ Loan 548-PAK (1966), Credit 581-PAK (1975), Credit 711-PAK (1978) and
EEC Special Action Credit 51-PAK (1980).



- 36 -
again to include review and monitoring of the program of operation and main-
tenance (O&M). Gibb also was responsible to the Bank for financial manage-
ment and fund administration by monitoring construction quantities, certify-
ing payments, keeping TDF and non-TDF expenditures separated, reviewing and
preparing cost estimates and forecasting fund status including status of
funds from contributing countries. In this work Gibb had a Lahore office for
work related to IBDF with site observers for each main contract and later a
Tarbela site office.
5.11    Coopers and Lybrand, Chartered Accountants of London were retained
by the Bank to audit the accounts of the general and project consultants.
5.12    Interaction Among the Parties.  General relations among the parties
are shown on Plate 1.  WAPDA was the agent representing the owner, GOP.
Harza functioned as General Consultant to WAPDA. TAMS was Project Consultant
responsible for project design, technical studies and supervision of con-
struction. TJV (later IRC) was the main contractor. The World Bank was
Administrator of TDF with Gibb as consultants for independent technical
review and payment certification and Coopers-Lybrand as consultants for audit
of consultants' accounts. By any measure the organizational arrangement was
successful. Probably the primary evidence of this is that the parties
responded fully, in an organized manner, to the emergencies which began in
1974. On the other hand the arrangements were not trouble-free. For
example, the number of organizations with interests, responsibilities, views
and competence in technical areas sometimes complicated and even delayed
decision on complex technical issues. The final result, however, probably
was better decisions. The potential for difficulties in this area was
reduced considerably by arrangements that had been agreed earlier as dis-
cussed in the following paragraphs.
5.13    Decision-making and Control.  The procedures for decision making,
control and fund management at Tarbela were laid down in 1960 by the Bank as
Administrator of the IBDF (and later of the TDF) and agreed witb WAPDA.
These procedures provided for review of all documents, drawings and varia-
tions by WAPDA, harza and Gibb before commitments were made.
5.14    Various levels of decision-making were developed which enabled lesser
decisions or variations to be agreed on site to save time. For larger items
Appropriation Requests had to be submitted to review and approval before
variation orders could be issued to the Contractor.
5.15    When problems arose during first filling of the reservoir in 1974,
emergency procedures for technical control and decision making had to be
quickly developed to respond to the new situation. The key to success in
controlling the situation and in overcoming the technical problems was a
system of implementation meetings of all parties, including the Contractor,
with only decisions for action being recorded. In this way technical solu-
tions could be agreed upon in full knowledge of all available facts and
capabilities. During this period of 'crisis management' there was a far
greater involvement of the Bank and its consultants in finding technical
solutions to problems as they arose.



- 37 -
5.16    These special procedures introduced the risk of diffusing the Project
Consultant:s' responsibilities and as soon as possible procedures for techni-
cal control and decision making reverted to the former format.
5.17    The development of technically satisfactory solutions to the unprece-
dented problems encountered at Tarbela, and their prompt implementation in
the limited time available before succeeding flood seasons, has been a major
achievement of all parties concerned.
5.18    Throughout the project construction and rehabilitation, financial
control and fund management was linked closely to technical control. Annual
capital cost estimates and half-yearly forecasts of disbursements were
prepared by Gibb. In addition, WAPDA had their own financial control system
including Government Audit.
5.19    During the period of initial repairs in 1974/75 the limited time
available between flood seasons to carry out repairs and additional works and
the changed nature of the work made it impractical to use existing rates
under the contract. The work had to be carried out on a cost plus basis,
since it was being both designed and constructed under an accelerated program
which left little time for advance planning.  Orders for materials for
example had to be placed on the basis of certain assumptions which could only
be confirmed when the damage had been fully assessed and the remedial work
decided upon.
5.20    The return to normal procedures was progressive:  the 1977/78 works
were carried out under contract at rates which were negotiated as the work
progressed; the 1979/80 works were carried out under a similar contract but
with rates negotiated in advance; and the conversion of stilling basin 4 to
twin flip-buckets was put out to international tender after full review of
design and documents, and prequalification of tenderers.
5.21    Insurance.  Insurance against loss or damage with respect to the
Tarbela construction project was taken out under the conventional CAR (Con-
tractors All Risks) policy prescribed by the Federation International des
Ingenieurs - Conseils (FIDIC) Conditions of Contract (International). The
policy was subject to a ceiling of US$100 million in indemnity for any one
event, which was the maximum obtainable in the market a, that time. Premiums
paid amounted to approximately US$17 million. Several small claims were met
by the insurers in the course of construction.
5.22    Following the incidents at Tarbela in 1974 and 1975, claims totalling
US$49.9 million equivalent were lodged against the insurers. The insurers
rejected these claims on the contention that the loss was caused by defective
design and/or non-fortuitous events. The delay in the settlemeat of the
claim faced Pakistan with severe problems particularly since it was clear
that considerable additional funds were needed immediately for repairs.
Arbitration proceedings were instituted by the owner and each party retained
counsel in London. Discussions were held and eventually the insurers offered
US$16 million in final settlement of the claims. This offer was accepted by
the owner in light of advice that litigation would be protracted and expen-
sive, and its outcome uncertain.



- 38 -
5.23    The experience at Tarbela set in motion a review of the adequacy of
the traditional insurance regime for major civil works. The details of this
review and its present status are described in ANNEX 3.
5.24    Training.  TAMS' contract with WAPDA provided for a design office in
Pakistan and for secondment from WAPDA of all TAMS local staff. These arran-
gements worked well, and the engineering profession in Pakistan has greatly
benefitted. In addition, the construction work force mobilized by IRC was
recruited in Pakistan, given necessary training and worked under IRC super-
visors. In this manner a vast number of Pakistanis developed skills which
enabled them to move to other jobs, both in Pakistan and world-wide.
CHAPTER VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01    The Tarbela Dam Project was constructed under a single major con-
tract.  One nominated subcontractor and numerous other subcontractors were
employed for specialized work.
6.02 Prime Contract. The prime contract for the construction of the Civil
Engineering Works of the Tarbela Dam Project was a unit price contract incor-
porating conditions common to the contracts for the various components of the
IBP; these conditions, in turn were based on the widely-accepted 1st edition
of the FIDIC form. The prime contract comprised the construction, completion
and initial maintenance of the whole of the works, including the powerhouse
building, and provision of all labour, materials and construction plant. The
gates, power units, switchgear, cables, etc., were manufactured under
separate contracts managed by WAPDA but the civil works contractor was
required to collect these items at point of manufacture, ship to site and
complete irstallation.
6.03    Pregualification, Tendering and Award.  Following pre-qualification
study, tender documents for the Tarbela prime contract were issued to four
consortia of contractors with sponsoring firms as follows:
(a) Guy F. Atkinson Co.,
(b) Hochtief AG, and
(c) Impregilo S.p.A.
(d) Morrison-Knudsen International Co., Inc.,
6.04    In late April 1967 a pre-bidding site conference was held at Tarbela.
Tenders were opened at Lahore on November 30, 1967. Contract award was made
to Tarbela Joint Venture (TJV) (the consortium sponsored by Impregilo) on May
14, 1968.
6.05    Nominated Subcontract.  The work of fabricating and installing the
steel liners in the four main tunnels, and the bifurcations, penstocks,
manifold and branch pipes external to the tunnels, was of immense scope and
complexity. The timely and satisfactory completion of this work was critical
to the progress of tunnel construction and completion of the project.
Separate tenders were invited for this work for eventual designation of the



- 39 -
successful tenderer as a nominated subcontractor to the prime contractor.
On July 1, 1969 the subcontract was awarded to Chicago Bridge & Iron Co.$
(C.B.I.). Later, under a separate agreement, C.B.I. furnished and installed
the steel liners for the Left Bank Irrigation Tunnel (Tunnel No. 5).
6.06    Subcontracts.  TJV made extensive use of subcontractors to carry out
much of the specialty work, notably the installation of permanent mechanical
and electrical equipment,cutting and bending of reinforcing steel and
fabrication of structural steel, drilling and grouting, painting, and the
construction of auxiliary features such as offices, shops, housing for labor
and staff, and community facilities.
6.07    Supply Contracts.  The various items of mechanical and electrical
equipment such as gates, cranes, pumps, motors, generators, switchgear, etc.,
were purchased under a series of 24 major supply contracts and 16 smaller
contracts.
6.08    Diversion and Construction Sequence.  Construction of the Project
fell into three stages, related to care of the river (see Map): Stage-i,
with the river flowing in its natural channels and work proceeding on the
right bank; Stage II, with the river flowing in a diversion channel on the
right bank and the work spread to both sides of the river; and Stage III,
with the river diverted through the right bank main tunnels and work con-
centrated on the closure section of the main dam and on the powerhouse and
the switchyard.
6.09    In Stage I, the objective was construction of the right bank diver-
sion channel and buttress dam and a start on the tunnels and main dam. The
materials excavated were used in part in the construction of a portion of
the main dam.
6.10    In Stage II, the river was confined to the Diversion Channel.  Right
Bank work on Tunnels 3 and 4 was completed; work on Tunnels 1 and 2 was
completed for diversion of the River. On the left bank, construction of the
two Auxiliary Dams was completed and the two spillway structures were -essen-
tially completed, except for installation of the crest gates. Across the
valley floor, the main embankment dam was completed to within a few feet of
the crest elevation, except for the gap through which the diversion channel
flowed. The blanket was completed.
6.11    The Buttress Dam gates were closed on September 29, 1973, slightly
ahead of schedule, and final diversion through the tunnels was achieved. In
Stage III, with the river flowing through the tunnels, the remaining section
of the main embankment dam - the closure gap - was completed. Work continued
on the left and right banks to complete other as-yet-incomplete features.
It was expected that at the end of Stage III, October 1974, the main dam
would be essentially complete, the reservoir filled to approximately spillway
crest level, and the reservoir discharging through Tunnels 3 and 4 and pos-
sibly over the crest of one of the two spillways.
6.12    During the course of project construction, openwork (boulder gravel
lacking in fine particles) was encountered in the foundation of the main dam
and this led to a decision by all concerned that initial filling of the



- 40 -
reservoir would be controlled and gradual to permit close observation of the
dam foundations and upstream blanket at progressive reservoir levels (the
"observational method"); a maximum level of El.1520 (463 m) was planned for
the first filling. Stage III, however, did not develop as planned. Con-
struction of the closure section progressed ahead of schedule but, with a
partially filled reservoir, severe difficulties developed (para 7.01) with
tunnels 1 and 2 in August 1974 when the reservoir level was at 1465 feet and
it became necessary to empty the reservoir. This and events that were to
follow had far reaching consequences for Pakistan and for TDF.
6.13    Technical Advances.  Tarbela tender documents and drawings were
prepared during the period 1965/67. Progress in engineering involves advanc-
ing from known positions and in a number of areas Tarbela requirements and
features were beyond the state of the art. Comparisons of Tarbela features
with other projects are given in ANNEX 2. Following are some of the most
significant contributions of Tarbela to engineering knowledge, design and
construction:
(a)  Rollcrete.  in repair of damages to Tunnel No. 2, in the work of
lining the plunge pools of the Service and Auxiliary spillways
and in the conversion of Tunnel No. 4 outlet from a stilling
basin to twin flip buckets very large quantities of rollcrete
were used; used on a much larger scale than anywhere heretofore.
kollcrete is a form of concrete with less than one-half the
amount of cement as is used in regular concrete and with
aggregate sizes up to 10 inches, produced in very large
quantities (at Tarbela at a maximum rate of 18,000 m3/day
(24,000 cu yds)) and transported, placed and compacted with
regular earth-handling equipment, i.e., large dumper trucks,
bulldozers and vibratory rollers. The experience at Tarbela
demonstrated the usefulness of roll-crete as a structural
material where large volumes must be placed quickly and where
there are low requirements for uniform strength, impermeability,
resistance to high velocity flows and weather.
(b)  Large Capacity Gates and Stilling Basins for Low Level Outlets.
The outlet gates on Tunnels 3 and 4 must be capable of releasing
varying quantities of water as irrigation requirements change
and as reservoir levels fluctuate. To do this with the large
discharges required and when the pressure head on the gates could
be as high as 132 m (433 ft), required outlet control structures,
i.e., steel transitions from tunnels to twin, radial outlet gates
and stainless steel lined gate chambers, with dimensions beyond
anything ever constructed. The entire massive structures were
heavily reinforced, prestressed and anchored. The design,
fabrication, installation and final fitting all involved concepts
and techniques never before accomplished on such a large scale.
(c)  Steel-Fiber Concrete.  Final repairs to the stilling basin of
Tunnel No. 3 carried out in 1976/77 included placement of a
20-in thick final surface of steel-fiber concrete to provide
greater resistance to cavitation and abrasion. This large use
of steel-fiber concrete appears to have given full protection



- 41 -
against the very large forces; seven operation seasons have passed
and inspections reveal negligible erosion of the protected floor
of the chute and basin.
(d) Extensive Upstream Blanket. Of large embankment dams employing
an upstream blanket to reduce reservoir seepage, Tarbela has no
close competitor, either in extent of the blanket or in height of
dam utilizing a blanket. Performance of the blanket has been as
expected; underseepage has consistently reduced as each season
passes and further, performance of the blanket has been enhanced
by consolidation of the blanket and by the deposition each year
of a deepening layer of sediment. Finding of the sinkholes on
draining the reservoir in Aug./Sept. 1974 and their successful
treatment have added a valuable page to engineering knowledge
and experience.
(e) Analysis and Treatment of Blanket Sinkholes. The presence of
sinkholes in the upstream blanket was observed in 1974 after
emergency emptying of the reservoir. While the blanket was
exposed they were filled with blanket material and the thickness
of the blanket was increased. In the years since there has been
a continuing program of underwater surveys (para 6.13 (f))
to monitor previous sinkhole locations and to locate and fill
new ones by dumping filter material from barges. Consensus is
that sinkholes are initially cracks developing frou differential
settlement and begin at the bottom when the fines from the blanket
material washes into open layers in the foundation. The treatment
has been effective and the performance of the blanket continues to
improve (para 6.13 (d)). No published experience of sinkholes in
blankets existed in 1974 but subsequent enquiries revealed that
sinkholes had occurred in the upstream .lanket of Arrow Dam in
Canada. Primarily based on the Tarbela experience it is now
recognized that sinkholes must be anticipated where blankets rest
on gravel and sand alluvial foundations and differential settle-
ment can occur.
(f) Side-Scan Sonar and Sonic Profiling. On the basis of knowledge
of experience in North Sea oil exploration, side-scan sonar
equipment and sonic profiling equipment were used for the loca-
tion and study of sinkholes. This unique application has been
successful from the beginning. This equipment, together with
radio navigation equipment to locate sinkholes and the barges
to dump the blanket material, although initially under the
control of the main contractor, are now all operated by Pakistani
personnel.
(g)  Other Areas of Technical Advances.  In addition to the areas men-
tioned above, theri were otifer technical areas where the expe-
rience at Tarbela added to engineering knowledge and experience,
e.g., a great variety and a great number of monitoring instruments
were installed in Tarbela facilities, some of which, such as the
double fluid settlement ievice were new, and all of which gave
data on instrument performance and instrument comparison; new



- 42 -
knowledge was gained in instrument and cable installation;
important experience was gained in manufacture of the core
material which instead of the conventional homogeneous material
was a mechanical blend of dissimilar materials; and considerable
knowledge has been gained on the effects of small surface
irregularities in causing cavitation damage under high velocity
flows.
CHAPTER VII. REMEDIAL/REPAIR PROGRAM
7.01    As mentioned previously, construction of the project proceeded as
planned with closure of the main embankment made on schedule; storage of the
flows of the Indus began. On August 21, 1974, when the reservoir level had
reached about elevation 447 m (1,465 ft) (maximum storage elevation is 472 m
(1,550 ft)), the first of the following series of damages and problems
occurred: 1/
August 1974 - loss of liner plates and damage to lining of outlet chamber
of Tunnel No. 3 caused by a faulty weld. The damage was
repaired by filling with concrete, adding anchors to the
liner plates and applying a hardened surface.
- severe damage to Tunnels 1 and 2. This disastrous event
involved partial damage to Tunnel No. 1 and the total
collapse of portions of Tunnel No. 2. The failure was
probably caused by unsymmetrical and partial opening and
closing of upstream control gates which combined with loss
of bearing rails where fixing bolts had not been tack
welded caused jamming of the gates. An heroic and massive
effort by all parties, particularly by the Contractor,
completed repairs in time to safely store the late Spring
and Summer runoff of 1975.
- discovery of sinkholes in the upstream blanket. When the
reservoir was emptied following the damage to Tunnels 1 and
2, a large number (426) of sinkholes were found in the main
blanket. Some new ones have appeared most years since and
the cumulative total found is now 500 (July 1983). The
sinkholes were probably caused by movement of the blanket
material into open layers of the alluvial foundation (para
6.13(e)). They have been successfully treated by dumping
of filter material onto the sinkholes. This program of
dumping from barges will undoubtedly continue-for a number
of years.
1/ The sequence of events, the damages and problems, the probable causes
and the repair programs are discussed in detail in Gibb's report of June
1980 (see ANNEX 7, item 23).



- 43 -
August 1975 - failure of floor slab of Tunnel No. 3 stilling basin.
This major failure occurred under conditions of high head
discharge with the stilling basin floor already severely
eroded by the circulation of boulders in the basin as a
result of the unsymmetrical operation of the outlet gates
to draw down the reservoir in 1974. The weakened floor
failed and the foundation rock eroded to a depth of over
70 ft and the massive wall between basins 3 and 4 was
undermined. The floor and wall were rebuilt.
April 1976 -  further erosion damage of No.  3 stilling basin.  Large
slabs of concrete were swept out from the basin floor by
high velocity flows. The cause was judged to lie the very
high hydraulic uplift forces trapped by respositioned
water-stops combined with the large fluctuations in the
water surface. This time extensive repairs were made
together with new techniques of anchors, an extensive
sub-floor drainage system, facilities to introduce air into
the water jet and placement of a thick floor of steel-fibre
concrete. Some minor cavitation damage has occurred in the
walls but repair could be called routine. However, WAPDA
continued ta be uneasy about the realiability of the
stilling basins and the difficulties of their inspection
and maintenance and favored the modification of Tunnel No.
4 outlet from a stilling basin to two twin flip buckets. A
two-year program of modification begun in April 1981 with
IRC as the contractor, was completed in June 1983.
September 1976 - discovery of sinkholes in the upstream face of the main
embankment dam. Five sinkholes were discovered. The
principal sinkhole was investigated by a shaft and by
borings. It was concluded that small areas of the
foundation had settled allowing prisms of the embankment
to settle. It was agreed no danger existed and that no
treatment was necessary. A similar sinkhole was found
in March 1984.
August 1977 - rapid erosion of right side of Service Spillway plunge pool
and movement of foundation of flip bucket. Circulating
currents initially set in motion by uneven erosion of the
plunge pool sides and outlet, caused erosion and threatened
the foundations of the service spillway flip bucket.
Beginning in October 1977, there were major and expanding
work programs during each of the following three work
seasons. (A work season begins in October and ends in
early June). Each season's program was worked out on the
basis of the spillway performance during the high summer
flows and on the basis of testing of models. The final
result, completed in June 1980, is massive and deep
concrete-faced rollcrete beneath the bucket and on the
right side cutting off the embayment, combined with rock
reinforced by post tensioned anchors protected by concrete
facing on the left side and at lower levels on all three



- 44 -
sides. This work is of such magnitude that there is a
complete absence of previous experience. In addition, much
of the steep hillside above the right side of the pool was
removed. A generally similar scenario took place at the
Auxiliary Spillway but after an initial remedial program to
control erosion on the left side of the pool, a decision
was taken to line the pool before further development
for2ed the need to take protective action. The final
design, based on model tests, was for a concrete faced
rollcrete lining beneath the bucket and to both sides of
the plunge pool. The work at the auxiliary spillway was
completed in June 1982.
September 1977 - discovery of a sinkhole in the upstream face of Auxiliary
Dam No. 1. As previously mentioned, sinkholes were
discovered in the upstream blanket after the first filling
in 1974. Two years later, sinkholes appeared in Auxiliary
Dam No. 1. To investigate, a shaft following the sinkhole
zone, was excavated to bottom of the core. A shaft on
the downstream side and extending to a deeper level also
was excavated and twice reopened. Even with these
investigations and related tests, there was no positive
identification of the initial cause of the sinkhole.
However, there is a growing opinion that seepage along
trenches and risers carrying instrumentation lines was a
factor. Piezometer readings showed adverse changes about
the time of discovery of the sinkhole, but there has been
no significant further deterioration. There has been no
increase in drainage flows through the dam. There is
general consensus that there has been a downstream
migration of fines at the sinkhole section. Careful
reservoir filling and observation of instruments, together
with some grouting treatment from the downstream shaft,
give the general feeling that the situation has stabilized
but monitoring will continue.
Since 1974 -  substantial seepage flows carrying dissolved minerals from
the right abutment drainage galleries. Flow and water
quality measurements, review of pre-construction geologic
information and geotechnical review by special consultants
has resulted in programs to extend the grout curtains and
construct two lower galleries for additional drilling
exploration and grouting. Further treatment steps has
involved regrouting from the drainage galleries and barge
dumping of silt on, and sealing of, the submerged abutment
and nullah adjacent to the dam. This work will probably
continue for several more years.
Since 1974 -  moderate seepage flows from the left abutment drainage
galleries. The left rim of the reservoir from the main dam
upstream to above Auxiliary Dam No. 1 is a thin ridge and
shows evidence of leakage at the dam and beneath the
Auxiliary Spillway. The rock is blocky with thin soft



- 45 -
seams between the blocks and because the formation is thin,
the possible seepage paths are short. There is agreement
that a grouting program is called for, probably for a
number of years, and the program is underway with a major
contract completed in 1983. A complementary program of
barge dumping of silt is also underway.
January 1982 - moderate landslide of the right abutment outfall area above
the stilling basins. This was caused by slow softening of
the graphitic schist by groundwater accompanied by creep in
the rock above, which resulted in a slope failure. Repair
was done by cutting back the elope, providing increased
drainage and replacing slope protection.
March 1984 - loss of large concrete block from downstream end of center
dividing wall of stilling basin of Tunnel No. 3 doing some
damage to basin wall and floor and probably caused by very
large pulsating hydraulic forces near face of hydraulic
jump. At time of writing of this report several repair
techniques were being considered. Repairs probably will be
made by WAPDA O&M forces.
7.02    The remedial/repair work resulting from the foregoing damages and
and problems was carried out over a period of ten work seasons involving
large requirements for mobilization, critical work schedules and additional
funds. Nearly all of the repair/remedial work was done by IRC. During this
period there was a constant flow of communications among the offices of the
involved parties. Several times each year, and always in November after the
annual filling of the reservoir, large meetings were held at site where
operating experience, instrumentation results, technical problems, model
studies, design changes and construction programs and program revisions were
reviewed. Major decisions were made at these meetings which governed the
work programs until the next meeting.
7.03    Total cost of the remedial/repair program at June 1983 was estimated
to be about US$475 M with about US$35 M remaining to be spent, for a total
cost of about US$510 M. Part of this cost was for repair of damages but a
part should be considered to be delayed capital expenditure. This is the
situation in the case of the lining of the spillway plunge pools which in
retrospect was clearly necessary. This cost was roughly US$100 M for each
plunge pool. Part of the cost also was in the nature of preventive main-
tenance. Response by all parties to the emergencies was outstanding and the
remedial/repair work, together with all facilities of the project, appears to
be nearly complete and sound but a high level of future care is essential.
7.04    The Tarbela remedial/repair program has received much attention, not
only in national and international press but also in technical journals.
There has been much analysis, discussion and speculation as to the causes of
the problems at Tarbela. Although for some problems there appear to be
specific causes, for the most part more general and over-riding circumstances
were controlling. In addition, the problems for the most part were excep-
tional and unforseeable at the then existing level of knowledge and
experience.  In general summary the main points aze:



- 46 -
(a) The damages to the floor slab of stilling basin No. 3 were
probably due to material failure and inadequate allowance for
the cavitation potential of the very high discharge velocities
associated with the need for very large energy dissipation which
required structures of unprecedented size.
(b) The damages to Tunnels 1 and 2 probably resulted from the loss of
gate rails due to fixing bolts not be'ing secured by tack welding
or other means. This led to the jamming and subsequent
unsymmetrical operation of the gates.
(c) The sinkholes in the upstream blanket now appear to be a
phenomenon that should have been anticipated considering the
physical characteristics of the blanket and the alluvial
foundation and were not a particularly critical problem.
(d) The need to strengthen and line the plunge pools of the
spillways resulted from the very large hydraulic forces and the
unanticipated, uneven and early erosion of the plunge pools' sides
and outlets.
Primary lessons learned are:
(a) Where forces and the resulting sizes of structures are unpre-
cedented, conservative approaches should be taken involving
consideration of all possible optional designs fully supported
by model tests with adequate time allowed to determine the best
solution.
(b) Even with the very large and extensive geological exploration
and testing program the prototype experience showed Tarbela's
geologic environment to be more unfavorable than expected.
(c) There is still much to be learned about the effects of very high
velocity water flows in causing cavitation, erosion, uplift
pressures, pressure fluctuations and other dynamic forces. At
Tarbela these affects were sometimes under estimated both on
structures and on the complex and adverse site geology.
7.05    Although Tarbela required important repair and remedial work, it has
continued to provide substantial and uninterrupted planned benefits to the
nation's economy each year from water supply, production of electric power
and a measure of flood management.
CHAPTER VIII. FUTURE WORK
8.01    The program of construction of the Tarbela Dam Project which began
in 1968, extended through completion of initial facilities and included the
remedial/repair program, will be completed in 1984. Initial operation and
maintenance (O&M) activities began in 1975. The transition from construction



- 47 -
to O&M will be completed in 1984 when WAPDA staff will assume full respon-
sibility for all work at the project. In addition to the future tasks of
O&M, it appears that there may be some additional construction works to be
carried out.
8.02    O&M Program.  Tarbela is one of a new generation of water conserva-
tion projects which has had to be designed and leveloped for geological
conditions which would previously have been considered to be unsuitable for
large scale dam construction. Further, the physical size of many of the
facilities was beyond any experience. Consequently, the normal provisions
for maintenance at Tarbela will always contain an element of development
which may vary widely from year to year. The key to the long-term safety of
Tarbela lies in the hands of the O&M organization. The immediate objective
at Tarbela, therefore, is to leave the project and project O&M organization
in a strong and competent condition for the tasks ahead.
8.03    The O&M program of Tarbela Dam Project is very large.  The develop-
ment of this program, with its requirements for skilled personnel, proper
equipment, adequate workshops and supplies and adequate and available financ-
ing, has been beset by a number of problems, the most significant of which
are:
(a) The repair and remedial program which began in 1974 and will
continue into 1984 has taken time, attention and resources which
normally would have been devoted to the development of the OM
program.
(b) The provisions governing expenditures of the TDF did not include
resources for capital investments in an O& program and thus it
has been necessary to raise additional capital funds.
(c) The planned smooth traneition from construction to O&M was upset
in every area by the long remedial/repair program. For example,
WAPDA's plan has always been to purchase, renovate and occupy
offices, workshops and warehouses used by the Contractor during
the construction period originally anticipated to end in
1975/76. However, due to continued work load it was not until
1982 that the Contractor was able to release a significant number
of buildings. Consequently, during the years of work on the
remedial/repair program, WAPDA 0O& forces have used temporary
and generally inadequate facilities. Only now are adequate
facilities being prepared.
(d) The lower total remuneration of the civil O&M staff by comparison
with others at site and other factors has made it difficult to
recruit and retain staff.
(e) Inadequate funding of foreign exchange has handicapped provision
of O&M plant, equipment, spare parts and supplies.
(f) There is no precedent or experience in Pakistan for such a large
need and application of resources and for such broad infrastruc-
tural support for project maintenance.



- 48 -
(g)  The sheer size and complexity of the facilities and the unexpected
problems that have been encountered make clear that the program
of maintenance will be larger than previously envisioned.
Safety must remain the key concern.
8.04    As noted in paras 8.03 (b) and 8.03 (e), funding for O&M has been a
problem. To provide a portion of the initial inventory of 0&14 equipment,
workshops, workshop equipment, supplies, tools, training and technical assis-
tance, about US$35.4 M in foreign exchange for O&M purposes has been made
available from various sources; in January 1980 US$3.2 M was provided from
insurance recoveries, in March 1980, US$6.5 M was provided from the EEC
Special Action Credit (51-PAK) and US$1.5 M was available from the loan from
Abu Dhabi. In addition, in April 1983, an agreement was signed whereby
US$10.2 M was provided by the Bank under Loan Agreement 2247-PAK. Also, in
June 1983, US$14.0 M equivalent was made available by UK through the UK
Overseas Development Administration.
8.05    Increased management attention, significantly increased budgets by
GOP of local currency beginning in FY82 and of foreign exchange beginning in
FY83, and additional foreign exchange specifically for O&M (para 8.04) have
improved the situation considerably, however, strong attention and adequate
financial resources will need to be continually directed to the 0&1H program.
8.06   A valuable lesson learned at Tarbela is that on large projects, opera-
tion and maintenance should be considered at very early stages. Experts in
O&1I should participate in design review and design decisions. Preparation of
operation and maintenance manuals should be a part of final design. Cost
estimates and capital funding should include plant and equipment needed for
O&M. Assignment of key O&M staff should be made early enough to permit
project familiarization, preparation of O&M programs, selecting and training
of staff and building apprentice and training programs.
8.07    Possible Future Capital Works.  TAMS' report of May 1982 (see ANNEX
7, item 25) summarized work since the first reservoir filling and set forth
views on possible future capital works for which additional funds will be
required. The substance of the TAMS report will be refined and modified by
further studies with portions eventually to become WAPDA programs in the
mid-to-late 1980's. Briefly, the TAMS report outlines possible significant
future capital construction work in the following areas:
(a)  extending the protection of the plunge pool of the Service Spillway,
(b)  strengthening the piers of the Service Spillway headworks,
(c)  strengthening the hoist towers for the outlet gates of Tunnels 3,
4 and 5, and
(d)  construction of an underwater dike upstream of the right abutment
tunnel inlets or other means to restrain the sediment delta in the
event of an earthquake of sufficient magnitude to trigger underwater
slides which might choke the tunnels (para 8.08).



- 49 -
8.08    Studies of Reservoir Sedimentation.  The Indus River carries large
quantities of sediment. The problem of loss8 of reservoir storage volume as
the sediment is deposited in Tarbela Reservoir has been studied for many
years. Early studies indicated that Tarbela Reservoir would be filled with
deposited sediments in about 50 years. Initial storing of water was during
the summer of 1974; 1983 was the tenth year of storlng water. During each of
these years sediment has been deposited both on the reservoir floor as a thin
layer of very fine sediments (which has improved the performance of the
upstream blanket) and at the upstream end of the reservoir where coarser
sediments are forming a delta which has been advancing slowly downstream.
The accumulation and movement of these delta deposits is being monitored by
surveys which have been made eacn year since 1979. Analysis of these data
indicate:
(a) annual accumulation (1974-83) of 100-140,000 acre-feet of sedi-
ments moving downstream as a wedge (at this rate of siltation a
somewhat longer reservoir life is suggested);
(b) the wedge will reach the dam in about 1995 but probably not
before that date; and
(c) the top slope of the wedge will be about 2.5 ft/mile, and the
depth of the sediments at the dam will be about 200 feet.
If this is the situation that develops, two courses of action should be
considered:
(a) some means to prevent the sediment wedge from closing the diver-
sion tunnels, such as an underwater dam may be necessary; and
(b) some means to scour sediments from the reservoir, e.g. if mini-
mum reservoir levels which would expose the stop of the sediment
wedge were held for a period of about a month each year, the
river flows during this period may scour a portion of the pre-
vious year's sediment deposits from the reservoir, thus prolong-
ing the life of the reservoir.
As a result of the data analysis and discussion, an investigation and a study
program is now in progress.  This program includes:
(a) measurements of river sediment concentration and gradation to
more accurately characterize the deposition regimen and scour
potential;
(b) exploration and testing of delta sediments to determine
liquidification potential; and
(c) further studies of the mechanisms of and potential for tunnel
clogging and methods for tunnel clearing.



- 50 -
ChAPTER IX. OPERATING PERFORIJANCE
9.01    Tarbela Dam Project has made all planned water deliveries since 1975
and all planned production of hydroelectric power since 1976 in spite of the
great activity and demands of the remedial/repair program.
9.02    Total annual quantities of water released from Tarbela Reservoir for
irrigation use and total annual quantities of electric power generated are
shown in the following tabulation:
Year             Water Released           Electric Power
July-June           for Irrigation             Generated
(MKWH)
1975/76                  3.33                       -
1976/77                  9.07                     138.3
1977/78                 10.00                   3,367.2
1978/79                  8.71                   3,726.0
1979/80                  9.91                   4,123.0
1980/81                 10.63                   4,128.8
1981/82                 11.33                   4,200.5
1982/83                  9.12                   5,228.2 /a
TOTALS        72.10                  24,912.0
AVERAGES       9.01                   3,114.0
/a  Increase from previous years reflects addition of units
5-8 during the year.
9.03    WAPDA is in the process of assuming full responsibility for the
-&M program at Tarbela Dam Project.  As noted in para 8.01, initial O&M
activities began in 1975. It also was noted in para 8.03 that certain
problems had adversely affected the development of the O&M program. Para
8.04 noted that supplemental foreign exchange resources had been made avail-
able to develop a strong O&M capability. Close attention, strong management,
adequate financial resources, strict adherence to tight schedules and
national recognition of the unique and critical nature of Tarbela will
clearly be required to develop and carry out the necessarily strong O&M
program.
9.04    Development of O&M Program.  The O&M program for Tarbela has been the
subject of continuing dialogue be-tween WAPDA and the Bank with the objective
of developing a fully comprehensive scheme. The first separate budget for
these activities was made in 1976. The O&M organization has progressively
had an expanded role, taking over responsibility and control of civil, elec-
trical and mechanical facilities upon completion by the construction contrac-
tors. Planning and implementation of the O&M program is the responsibility
of WAPDA. TAMS has developed the necessary monitoring organization, com-
pleted detailed drawings, gathered manufacturers instructions, and is cur-
rently preparing operation and maintenance manuals for WAPDA O&M staff. Gibb
has been continuously reviewing the evolving O&M program.



- 51 -
9.05    In addition to these ongoing long-term activities, there have also
been five specific reviews of the 0&M program. First, Gibb submitted a
report in early 1978, generally setting forth the required scope of the O&M
program and progress to that time. They have since reported at regular
intervals on the progress being made by WAPDA. Second, Harza, in 1978
reviewed tool, equipment, and spare parts requirements for O&M. Third, in
1979 a consultant to the Bank assessed and reported on the status of O&M
work, WAPDA's preparedness for greater responsibility, and areas where the
program was lagging. Fourth, in 1980, Impregilo reviewed needs for heavy
equipment, workshops, and stores for O&M activities. Fifth, in 1982, a
consultant to the Bank reviewed the O&H programs related to the
mechanical/electrical facilities.
9.06    The Tarbela Dam Project Office is headed by a General Manager and
Project Director who reports to Member Water at WAPDA headquarters in Lahore.
The General Manager and Project Director is responsible for all civil
facilities including the repair/remedial program. The Tarbela Power Plant is
headed by a Chief Engineer and Project Director who reports to the General
Manager, Generation at WAPDA headquarters in Lahore. The Chief Engineer and
Project Director is responsible for the powerhouse 0&M and additions to
generation facilities. He also is responsible for 0OM of the spillway and
tunnel gates. This division between water and power interests at all levels
in WAPDA has been a concern to the Bank since it could lead to lack of coor-
dination and duplication of resources. The matter is under consideration by
Chairman, WAPDA.
9.07    The remaining work of the remedial/repair program will be completed
by early 1984. IRC, the contractor, has already begun to demobilize and will
have closed up workshops and removed most equipment by mid 1984. WAPDA will
then carry full responsibility for the O&M program with its own resources.
9.08    Progress of WAPDA as at August 1983 in the several areas of taking
over full responsibility for project O&M is as follows:
(a) Staffing. There are about 1,100 sanctioned positions in the
O&M organization. A number of these positions are as yet
unfilled and as pointed out previously (para 8.03(d)) low staff
salaries and other factors have made it difficult to recruit and
retain staff. This problem has been discussed with WAPDA many
times and the Bank has suggested that WAPDA review the situation
as a matter of urgency.
(b)  Shop Facilities.  All shops will be completed by early 1984.
(c) Equipment, Spare Parts and Supplies. Most of the initial
inventory of equipment, spare part and supplies is at site.
Funds are available (para 8.04) for additional equipment to
complete the initial inventory and to purchase additional
equipment or to add new types of equipment if the need develops.



- 52 -
ChAPTER X. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
10.01   As previously pointed out, the Settlement Plan formed the basis of
the Indus Water Treaty and the Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement. The
total resources of the IBDF amounted to US$894 M (US$632 M in foreign cur-
rency). By the time contracts had been awarded for the first phase of the
works the estimated total costs, excluding Tarbela, had risen to nearly
US$700 N (over US$450 M in foreign currency).
10.02   In April 1964 a Supplemental Agreement increased the total resources
of IBDF to US$1,209 M (US$946 M in foreign currency). By March 1968 all
replacement works east of the Jhelum had been completed and it could be seen
that sufficient funds were in hand to complete the replacement works with
a surplus remaining which could be used for Tarbela. These remaining funds,
together with other contributions went into the TDF. The TDF Agreement was
signed May 2, 1968.
10.03   As a consequence of the damages in 1974, additional finance in the
amount of US$37 M was provided in 1975. A second supplemental agreement in
1978 provided an additional US$79 M.
10.04   An additional US$ 32 M was made available by the EEC, an EEC Special
Action Credit and from insurance recoveries. Further GOP arranged for con-
tributions totalling US$ 102 M. However, as these contribution were not to
be made direct to TDF it was necessary to provide the finance to bridge the
time between the disbursements being made from TDF until reimbursements were
received from the separate funding agencies. Although this bridging finance
resulted in additional costs to the Administrator, these were accepted in the
interest of satisfactory and timely completion of the project.
10.05   In addition, Pakistan has made very large contributions of local
currency to both IBDF and TDF as well as financing the entire costs of Tunnel
No. 5, the power plant and the primary transmission lines.
10.06   The following table details TDF disbursements for each calendar year
in millions of US$ equivalents as at December 31, 1982:



- 53 -
Disbursed          Reimbursed    Net Foreign
Local     Foreign       Foreign        Currency
Year            Currency    Curreny        Currency       Disbursed
1968             10,400       12,988           -            12,988
1969             97,300       82,312           -            82,312
1970             62,750       77,150           -            77,150
1971             88,899      133,782           -           133,782
1972             60,256       75,077           -            75,077
1973             29,489       25,076           -            25,076
1974             35,684       40,563           -            40,563
1975             35,291       59,854           -            59,854
1976             23,146       32,323           -            32,323
1977             11,958       19,414           -            19,414
1978             24,159       22,629           -            22,629
1979             42,309       26,257           -            26,257
1980             50,347       42,975         8,863          34,112
1981             56,468       45,382        16,238          29,144
1982             25,188       28,755        28,919         ( 0.164)
Totals          653,644      724,537        54,020         670,517
10.07   The total amount of both foreign and local currency flowing first
through IBDF and then through TDF was about US$2,300 M.  Of this amount about
US$1,400 M went to Tarbela.
10.08   The Bank has been Administrator of both funds through this long
period and played an important role in fund mobilization. In the management
of IBDF and TDF the Bank wqas greatly assisted by Sir Alexander Gibb & Part-
ners (para 5.07).
10.09   By any measure, this cooperative international financial effort has
been successful and a credit to the international community, GOP, WAPDA and
the Bank.
10.10   Details of the financial program are presented in ANNEX 4.
CHAPTER XI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
11.01   Considering the physical, financial and management magnitude and
complexity of the project, the unexpected ocurrences, the many years involved
and the present successful near completion of the project, no strong
criticisms can be leveled at any of the parties or of the cooperative and
coordinating arrangements that were followed. Rather, the world's largest
dam, the product of their work and cooperation, without precedent in many
dimensions, on a huge river and in a poor geologic environment, is productive
beyond expectation, a tribute to international cooperation, and a monument of
which Pakistan and its people are proud.
11.02   The Borrower, the Government of Pakistan, implemented the Project
through WAPDA. Reflecting the fact that Tarbela Dam was Pakistan's largest
civil works investment, GOP and WAPDA gave, and continued to give, the
project high priority. The several Chairmen, WAPDA, have given the project



- 54 -
their personal attention as have high officials in the concerned ministries.
It is also clear that WAPDA has assigned some of its beat personnel to the
project. The project management is of high quality although in some areas
additional experienced supervisors and managers are needed at middle and
higher management levels.
11.03   There is a pervasive problem relating to staffing of the O&M
organization; that of recruiting and retaining good and experienced people
(paras 8.03(d) and 9.08(a)). An inconsistency in the levels of allowances
as between different disciplines coupled with the demand in the Middle East
for skilled workers at high rates of pay have combined to disrupt efforts to
create a strong, capable and permanent work force at Tarbela. GOP/WAPDA need
to reassess existing policies so sufficient inducement is given by way of
adequate and equitable remuneration and career and promotion prospects to
ensure that experienced staff are available at all levels, reflecting the
unique and critical national importance of the project.
11.04   Integration of Tarbela Into National Water System.  The Lieftinck
Report (see ANNEX 7, item 4) pointed to the need for coupling of waver
development with agricultural development if the full benefits of water
development were to be realized. Efforts to accomplish thir with respect to
Tarbela have fallen short in a number of areas: no reviseet allocation (among
provinces) has so far been made of the new yield from Tarbela and improvement
is needed in integrating these new water supplies with othler supplies for
best use. Complimentary programs for rehabilitating, modernizing and expand-
ing the existing irrigation systems and modernizing agricclture by wider use
of technical inputs, programs of rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
improving water regulation practices and on-farm water management, reducing
subsidies, increasing water charges, providing drainage and water quality
management and strengthening infrastructural support for agriculture, are in
place and although some are moving slowly there is constant improvement.
11.05   Need to Strengthen O&M Capability and Funding Performance. As pre-
viously pointed out (paras 8.02-8.04) development of the 0&M program has been
slow and is behind schedule. Although additional attention and funds (para
8.04) have been directed to this program, much remains to be done to assure
the long-term safety of the project. In addition to properly trained and
motivated personnel, adequate and fully equipped workshop facilities, readily
available equipment, supplies, technical support and adequate funds, there
needs to be an increased recognition in all agencies of the government that
Tarbela's care through proper maintenance, particularly the required funding,
must have a national priority. In the future, when requests for funds for
Tarbela O&M will have to compete with requests of all other programs, it will
be especially important that GOP recognize the critical nature and importance
of Tarbela.
11.06   Covenants and Status of Compliance.  A number of covenants have been
included in the the Tarbela loans and credit.  All covenants have been com-
plied with although the Bank has pointed out that WAPDA's difficulty and
delay in filling sanctioned positions in the O&M organization could affect
WAPDA's ability to meet covenants which state 'The Borrower shall cause the
dam and other facilities included in the project --(to be)-- operated and



- 55 -
maintained in accordance with sound irrigation and electric utility prac-
tices." 1/ (see ANNEX 5 for covenants and status of compliance).
CHAPTER XII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Overview
12.01   Overview.  Hydroelectric projects,2/  dam/barrage and link canal
facilities 31 on the Indus and its tributaiies figure prominently in the
economy of Pakistan. Of the estimated potential 10,000 MW that could be
economically generated in hydro-electricity, about 35% has been harnessed to
date. Such facilities account for over half of Pakistan's current power
generation capacity (hydro-electric and thermal). With doubling of Tarbela
power to 1,400 MW in 1982 on completion of a second power plant, its economic
contribution was enhanced further, and plans are in place for development to
over 3,000 MW.
12.02    In terms of irrigation benefits, the main purpose of the reservoir
at Tarbela, as well as those at Mangla and Chashma is to store water in the
summer flood season, when river discharges are greatly in excess of irriga-
tion requirements, for use in the rabi (winter) season, when the main food
crops are grown but natural river flows are low and variable. In addition,
such facilities enable regulation of river discharges and a matching of canal
deliveries to rather inflexible time patterns of crop water requirements in a
way not possible formerly. Thus, the reservoirs, Tarbela in particular, have
enabled significant expansion of rabi cropped area and, by providing regu-
lated water supplies have also made the use of yield-augmenting inputs, such
as improved seeds and fertilizers, as well as improved on-farm irrigation
practices technically justified and financially rewarding to farmers.
12.03    Tarbela, providing an estimated 12.3 BCM of average annual irriga-
tion irrigation releases, services a system of canal commands of about 8.8 M
ha CCA, about 44% of the nation's cultivated area and 53% of its irrigated
area. By 1979-80 rabi cropped area within the system had expanded to 4.0 M
ha, yielding a 25% increase over the 1970/71-1974/75 average pre-Tarbela area
of 3.2 N ha. About 75% of this increment was attributable to increased rabi
water availabilities made possible by Tarbela investments; the balance in
1/ Essentially this same covenant is included in Loan Agreement 548-PAK
(Section 5.01(b)), Credit Agreement 581-PAK (Section 3.02), Credit Agree-
ment 771-PAK (Section 3.02(a)) and Special Action Project Agreement
51-PAK (EEC) (Section 3.02(a)).
2/ In addition to Tarbela, other large hydroelectric projects are Mangla on
the Jhelum River (800 MW) and Warsak on the Kabul River (240 MW).
3/ Nineteen major barrages-cum-headworks divert water from the main rivers
for irrigation use and twelve major link canals transfer water between
rivers



- 56 -
large measure was due to increased exploitation of usable groundwater resour-
ces. By 1980, about 80% of the incremental rabi area within the Tarbela
canal command system was planted to wheat, producing about 800,000 tons of
incremental grain, or about 22% of the national increase (3.6 M tons) over
pre-Tarbela levels (7.2 M tons). 1/ This incremental wheat production from
additional Tarbela-related irrigated area exceeds the 75% reduction in wheat
imports since the mid-1970s of about 750,000 tons. At present, incremental
rabi irrigation supplies from Tarbela are estimated to provide about Rs 1,500
M p.a. in net agricultural production benefits (expressed in mid-FY83 con-
stant economic prices) from resulting incremental rabi cropped area.
12.04   Economic Analysis of the Tarbela Project.  In recognition of the
importance of Tarbela investments to the Pakistan economy, this report recon-
firms the economic viability of the total Tarbela complex, including recently
approved additions to maintenance capital plant. Concerning Tarbela's
economic impact, a 1967 Bank-sponsored feasibility study stated:
"The Tarbela Dam is such a strategic element in the integrated
programs proposed that it is extremely difficult to quantify the
contribution which it makes itself to increased production. Never-
theless the Bank Group tried to measure this contribution and it
believes that, to the extent it is measurable, a reasonable conserva-
tive range for the rate of return would be about 9-13 percent."
Since this feasibility study and start of implementation, project costs have
increased significantly, due primarily to the remedial/repair program (para
7.01 et seq). There have also been delays in downstream investments in
irrigation and drainage works as well as continuing inadequacies in water
management, extension, and other agricultural services -- points that were
addressed under the recent Revised Action Programme (para 2.10). On the
other hand, new high yielding crop varieties which benefit relatively more
from irrigation have become available, and economic value of agricultural
production and electrical energy attributable to the Tarbela Project have
increased sharply thereby mitigating the impact of higher project costs.
Likewise, the economic impact of Tarbela was strengthened by the expeditious
completion of initial works, and although the operational filling of the
reservoir was delayed one year until the summer of 1975, the reservoir has
produced each year its full yield of regulated irrigationi water supplies
despite ongoing remedial/repair work. Further, the initial power plant began
production on schedule in FY76 and has continued operation without interrupt-
ion. Based on re-analysis, considering all incremental capital and recurrent
costs, incurred and projected, and estimated agricultural and power benefits
valued at border prices, the Pakistan economy is realizing an economic rate
of return on Tarbela investments of about 12.5%. Based on quantified
1/ The balance of incremental wheat production has been attributable to
other new irrigated area resulting from greater exploitation of usable
groundwater (both public and private tubewells), and from higher produc-
tion on traditional area with more regulated water supplies (surface and
groundwater) and higher fertilizer use. The economic analysis of the
Tarbela Project described herein excludes Tarbela's contribution to
increased productivity on traditional rabi cropped area.



- 57 -
benefits discussed below, relative agricultural and power contributions to
the present worth (PWOR) 1/ of total estimated benefits are 27% and 73%,
respectively (see ANNEX 6, Table 5). 2/ 3/
12.05   The economic real flow for the project is provided in ANNEX 7,
Table 4, with a full referencing of underlying assumptions. The following,
however, outline the principal assumptions of the economic analysis:
(a) Project Life. The project has been assumed to have a life of
50 years 4/ from the start of construction in FY68 (see ANNEX 6,
Table 3). Irrigation and power production both began in FY76.
(b) Agricultural Benefits. As indicated in paras 12.02-12.03 a
principal benefit derived from incremental Tarbela irrigation
water availabilities has been the expansion of rabi cropped
area, 70-80% of which has been planted to wheat, the staple
foodgrain of Pakistan. By means of regression analysis, the
relationship between water supplies--both surface and
groundwater--and rabi cropped area was estimated using data from
the ten Tarbela canal command groups covering the pre- and
post-Tarbela period of 1970/71-1979/80. Because data were
sufficiently detailed and to reflect better the importance of
timeliness of water availabilities to farmers' decision-making,
surface water deliveries during the critical land preparation
months of October and November were used in the analysis (see
ANNEX 6, Table 3). As a result, these two water variables
(surface and groundwater) explained 85% of the variation in rabi
cropped area over the period analyzed. With high statistical
significance, elasticities between surface water deliveries
(October-November) and rabi cropped area and between tubewell
pumpage and rabi cropped area were estimated at 75% and 23%,
respectively. Using the estimated relationship between surface
water supplies and rabi cropped area, incremental area with
Tarbela supplies was calculated from predicted values. Since
rabi wheat accounted for the major portion of total incremental
area within the Tarbela canal command system during the
post-Tarbela period, irrigated rabi wheat was used as the repre-
sentative crop in estimating total net benefits from the
1/ Streams discounted at 10% p.a, the assumed Opportunity Cost of Capital
(OCC) in Pakistan.
2/ Assuming development of Tarbela hydroelectric potential through Unit 12,
or upto 2,100 MW, by 1980, the Lieftinck Report predicted that power and
agriculture would represent 25% and 75%, respectively, of total Tarbela
benefits. As explained in para 12.06 (c), the current analysis studied
power development only through Unit 10 (FY86).
3/ Based on incremental agricultural production before adjustment for
incremental crop production costs.
4/ Para 8.08.



- 58 -
incremental cropped area attributable to Tarbela releases. Based
on historical yield records from the Tarbela canal command
system, incremental production and net benefits were estimated
for past years and for the remaining project life. See ANNEX 6,
Table 2 for wheat input/output assumptions.
(c)  Power Benefits.  Power benefits from Tarbela hydroelectric units
were measured in terms of the savings in investment, O&M, and
fuel costs for alternative thermal facilities that would be
necessary to provide an equivalent input to the national grid,
based on past and projected monthly demand. Necessary thermal
capacity required to provide the same energy generation as
Tarbela on an annual basis was examined. The analysis includes
power development at Tarbela through Unit 10, scheduled for
commissioning in 1985, or up to 1,750 MW. Capacity expansion
has not been included beyond this current program since no work
schedules or detailed feasibility studies have been prepared or
which to base estimates. Estimation of thermal alternative
capital costs has been based on a World Bank estimate of US$800
per kW in mid-1980 prices, or about US$870 per kW in mid-FY83
prices. Because Tarbela facilities produce chiefly baseload
power, the thermal alternative has been considered to be a
series of steam plants fueled by residual oil. It was estimated
that alternative residual oil requirements would grow from about
0.03 M tons in FY77, at the start of Tarbela power generation,
to 2.3 M tons in FY88 at full development to Unit 10. Fuel
needs were based on an assumed output of 4,000 kWh per ton of
fuel (see ANNEX 6, Table 4).
(d) Prices. For internationally traded commodities, economic prices
at farmgate level were derived from past and projected
(1975-1995) world market prices expressed in December 1982
currency values. Appropriate adjustments were made for freight,
handling, and quality differentials. Local costs and domesti-
cally-priced benefits were adjusted to border basis through
application of appropriate conversion factors, the principal one
being a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9. Year-specific
prices have been used for inputs and outputs over the FY76-95
period, after which prices were assumed to remain unchanged in
real terms. Regarding residual oil pricing, an import equiv-
alent has been assumed since quantities required to supply
alternative thermal plants (para 12.05(c)) would far exceed
recent levels of residual oil exports, averaging 0.6 M tons over
the FY77-81 period, 1/ and those likely in future. Input and
output prices used in the economic analysis are summarized in
ANNEX 6, Table '.
(e) Tarbela Costs. All incremental costs of the Tarbela Project
have been incorporated into the analysis, including those
1/ Over this five-year period, a maximum was reached in FY80 with 880,000
tons.



- 59 -
associated with construction (initial works as well as
remedial/repair activities), power installations through Unit
10, resettlement of affected persons and utilities, Tunnel No.
5, O&H plant, transmission lines, and recurrent expenditures of
Tarbela's Water and Power Wings.
12.06    Risks.  Based on the above economic analysis of the Tarbela complex,
the following section considers some of the possible risks associated with
the Tarbela Project. Problems encountered since water was first impounded at
Tarbela in 1974 have been substantial (para 7.01 et seq). Prompt action has
been taken to deal with these, and measures to safeguard the Project have
been given highest priority by GOP. Work programs to repair and strengthen
structures have been formulated with the advice of international experts, and
have been based upon results of model tests. These work programs have been
carried out by the Contractor effectively and on schedule within difficult
time constraints imposed by seasonal river conditions. however, given the
unprecedented size and complexity of the Tarbela Project, the possibility
cannot be ruled out that further technical problems may arise in the future.
Based on sensitivity test results presented in ANNEX 6, Table 5, however, the
Tarbela Project's economic viability displays considerable robustness to cost
increases or benefit shortfalls. Actual costs and benefits over the FY68-83
period are known, implying that significantly higher cost overruns/benefit
shortfalls must occur in the future to yield the same overall sensitivity
results. To minimize risk, the Tarbela Project is being monitored con-
tinuously with the assistance of an elaborate system of surveying and record-
ing equipment. Also, GOP has agreed to establish adequate O&M arrangements
for Tarbela and to arrange regular dam inspections. It is hoped, therefore,
that with measures already taken or planned, including investments under the
Reservoir Maintenance Facilities Project (Loan 2247-PAK), future problems
will be relatively routine and manageable. In addition, institution building
in terms of technical assistance and training carried out and continued
efiectively will reinforce and enhance the utilization of O&M capital plant.
In addition to the immediate task of ensuring that the Project is completed
and functions satisfactorily, intensive efforts will be required to reap the
full benefit of the additional irrigation water from the Project. This will
require, inter alia, complementary downstream investments, strengthening of
agricultural extension services, provisions of inputs, improvement of water
management and appropriate government pricing policies. These requirements
are being addressed by other projects assisted by the Bank as well as in the
context of the on-going Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit.
CHAPTER XIII.  BANK PERFORMANCE
13.01   As previously mentioned, the Bank has had three primarily roles over
the long period of involvement (1953-present) in the Tarbela Project. These
primary roles involved (1) settlement of water-related issues between
Pakistan and India, (2) mobilizing and administering funds, and (3) review of
technical aspects and the construction program.



- 60 -
13.02   A number of senior Bank officials have been involved as well as
members of project and program staffs and staff of Legal and Loan depart-
ments. In addition, the Bank employed two firms, Sir Alexander Gibb & Part-
ners, consulting engineers, and Coopers & Lybrand, chartered accountants,
as described in paras 5.09-5.10.
13.03   Although there were difficult times and serious problems, the overall
picture and the result are clearly a great success. Through all of the
various phases and incidences the Bank performed well and in particular
demonstrated the flexibility to adjust quickly to changes and emergencies.
13.04   Some of the particularly successful steps taken by the Bank were:
(a) The system of contractor prequalification which was instituted
by the Bank in 1960 at the commencement of Indus Basin Project
and which is now a standard for major construction almost
world-wide, and where Tarbela Joint Venture was the selected
contractor, was important to the successful completion of Tar-
bela Dam and the remedial/repair program.
(b) Procedures for financial control and fund administration evolved
by the Bank for Indus Basin Project, where some Bank respon-
sibilities were assumed by Gibb, worked well at Tarbela.
(c) The remarkable success of the Indus Basin Project generated the
momentum and technical base for a smooth progression by the Bank
to fund mobilization and administration, technical review and
project supervision for the subsequent work at Tarbela. This
continuous and broad involvement by Bank staff was particularly
useful when the emergency occurred in 1974 and in the subsequent
years of the remedial/repair program. The Bank's policy and
system of delegation also worked smoothly where much of the work
on the project was dealt with at lower levels in the Bank with
top management personnel being directly involved only at criti-
cal phases.
(d) In retrospect, it was clearly important that when the great
emergency of the tunnel failure occurred in 1974 (para 7.01)
(1) attention was focused on repair rather than on assessing
blame and (2) the coordination meetings of all parties involved
in the repairs were directed at agreeing on action points and as
a result served the invaluable purpose of keeping attention
focused on the repair work so it was done expeditiously.
(e) Employment of an engineering consultant (Gibb) served many
advantageous purposes. It provided close independent technical
review, monitoring of details of contract and fund administra-
tion, full-time on-site representation, provided communication
channels, assured complete records and in particular digested
the enumerable details to direct the Bank's activities to the
significant and policy issues. The close working relationship
between Gibb and Bank staff enabled the Bank to exercise
influence on administration of the project without interference
with the normal relationships of owner-consultant-contractor in



- 61 -
terms of international civil engineering contract procedure. It
is clear that Gibb's work and performance was indispensable to
the Bank's success as Administrator of TDF.
(f) Full-time assignment of a Bank headquarters project staff person
during the remedial/repair period was advantageous by giving a
single focus in the Bank, improving Bank coordination, giving
quick Bank analysis and response to emergencies and avoiding
divided responsibility and part-time participation in this very
significant and complex project.
CHAPTER XIV. CONCLUSIONS
14.01   The entire Indus Basin Project stands as a monument to international
cooperative effort, in a large part guided by the Bank.
14.02   The immense system of replacement works consisting of Mangla Dam, six
barrages and eight link canals was constructed during the period 1961-68;
completion in March 1968 was two years ahead of the Treaty deadline. The
cost was US$1,086 M. No other project of such size and complexity had been
constructed in such record time.
14.03   Tarbela Dam, the last and largest structure of all was begun in 1968
and also stayed on schedule. Bringing it into operation was delayed by one
year, from 1974 to 1975, by the unexpected and large damages on initial
filling of the reservoir (para 7.01). But the continued international
cooperative effort, focused by all parties on the changed situation, enabled
the work of repair and completion to continue without delay and without
interrupting the operation of the Tarbela facilities to produce new water
supplies and electric power.
14.04   The project has been as productive as envisioned and has achieved its
objectives of water storage and power generation and its economic rate of
return is at least equal to the feasibility study estimate (para 12.04).
14.05   The advantage of experienced (pre-qualified) contractors, selected by
international tendering, with access to the best new equipment on the world
market and with inducement of a well planned bonus scheme has been clearly
demonstrated at Tarbela.
14.06   The response, assistance and cooperation of the donor community was
superb. Particularly helpful was their willingness to place the money at the
disposal of the Bank as a common pool. The resulting flexibility in manage-
ment of TDF was needed and useful during the periods of emergency and during
the remedial/repair program. A lesson learned is that for such a large
project, with numerous donors, a common pool of funds results in more
flexible fund management to the advantages of the project (para 5.02).
14.07   Management of "tied" funds required additional work and control but
no other significant problems were created. In future projects where tied
funds are managed, contract documents should contain reference to this type



- 62 -
of funding and the extra documentation required to be provided by the Con-
tractor (ANNEX 4, p.1).
14.08   The organizational arrangements which included agreements on
decision-making, control and Fund management (paras 5.13 et seq.) worked well
at Tarbela.
14.09   The group of project consultants (bott firms and individuals) should
be closely integrated with the engineering of the project and should have
capability to handle all aspects of the project. To assure this the terms of
reference and the working arrangements should be reviewed regularly to take
account of changing circumstances and changing needs.
14.10   The Bank was greatly assisted as Administrator of IBDF and TDF by Sir
Alexander Gibb & Partners and employment of a similar consultant with similar
roles should be considered in the future for large projects where the Bank
has major involvement.
14.11   The importance of the continuity and availability of experienced long
service staff to bridge betweerk and relate past circumstances, decisions and
actions to current problems, cannot be over-emphasized in the case of large
projects where planning, design, construction and bringing into operation
extend over a long period.
14.12   The experience of the accidents at Tarbela in 1974 raised significant
questions concerning traditional insurance concepts and practices for major
civil works. These questions were considered at a special seminar sponsored
by FIDIC in June 1978. Keypointh which emerged (ANNEX 3) were: the tradi-
tional CAR policy may not adequately protect large and complex projects;
other insurance options may be available; non-insurance is an option that
should be considered; and, retaining specialized and independent insurance
consultants should be considered. A subsequent "Status Reportw issued in
December 1981 by the FIDIC Project Insurance Steering Committee recommended,
inter-alia: that prior to finalization of tender documents, project owners
appoint duly qualified risk management advisers whose fees would be financed
from project-related loans; that proviso be inserted in the FIDIC Contract
Conditions giving the owner the option of effecting a project insurance
program; that changes be made in the language qualifying excepted risk con-
cerning design; and that there is a need for a broader and more flexible
approach in the future especially with regard to design cover.
14.13   The problems at Tarbela can now be seen to have been for the most
part exceptional and unforeseeable at the then existing levels of knowledge
and experience.
14.14   The restrospect, the full, potentially damaging, effect of the large
quantities and high velocities of water on structures on such complex and
adverse geology had not been fully appreciated.
14.15   The ad hoc procedures set up to meet the emergency situation worked
well and enabled the project to come into operation with the minimum of
delay. In dealing with emergencies, un-minuted coordination meetings of all
parties, with only action points being recorded, served a valuable purpose in
getting remedial work done expeditiously (para 5.15).



- 63 -
14.16   There should have been more planning and provision for O&M, including
funds for O&M facilities, equipment, spare parts and supplies, together with
preparation for O&M including staffing and training (para 8.06).
14.17   GOP/WAPDA need to reassess existing policies so sufficient inducement
is given by way of adequate and equitable remuneration and career promotiou
prospects to ensure that experienced staff are continuously available at all
levels, reflecting the unique and critical importance of the project (para
11.03).
14.18   The key to the long-term safety of Tarbela lies in the hands of the
O&M organization.  Close attention, regular inspections, strong management,
adequate financial resources and national recognition of the unique and
critical nature of Tarbela will clearly be required to develop and carry out
the necessarily strong O&M program (para 9.03).
14.19   Recently completed studies indicate the possible need for some addi-
tional future capital works in the mid to late 1980s. These include addi-
tional protection of the plunge pool of the Service Spillway, strengthening
of piers and hoist towers, means to restrain or manage the sediment delta in
the event of an earthquake and contingency plans to unclog tunnels should
they be blocked by a sediment slide (para 8.07).
14.20   Tarbela has made significant contributions to engineering knowledge,
design and construction. Some of the most significant (para 6.13) relate to
the use of rollcrete, the design and construction of large capacity gates and
stilling basins for low level outlets, the use of steel-fiber concrete, the
design, construction, monitoring and performance of soil blankets to control
reservoir seepage and detection and the treatment of sinkholes.
14.21   Tarbela Dam Project has made all planned water deliveries since 1975
and all planned production of electric power since 1976 in spite of the great
activity and demands of the remedial/repair program (para 9.01).
14.22   The new water supplies made available by Tarbela have not yet been
fully Integrated into the nation's water system. Further, complementary
programs for increasing agricultural production have moved slowly (para
11.04).
14.23   If a Tarbela-like emergency situation should occur in the future,
consideration should be given to the four following essential activities:
(a) quick decisive response to save the project;
(b) quick mobilization of funds;
(c) full and cooperative use of all technical expertise; and
(d) fully adequate and continuously available staff to assure that
design modifications, model testing and comparison of alterna-
tive solutions, stays well ahead of the construction program.
It is important that the replaced or revised facilities are the
proper ones and although project safety is the over-riding



- 64 -
consideration, the need to find the economic solution is impor-
tant. The proper and economic solution can only be found by
analyzing all alternatives.



- 65 -                         ANNEX I
Page 1
PAISTAN
TARBELA DAN PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Description of Major Project Facilities
Main Embankment Dam and Blanket. The main embankment dam has a
maximum height of 143 m (470 ft) and a crest length of 2,740 m (9,000 ft).
The dam has a sloping impervious core supported by well graded granular
shells. The core is a blend of angular cobble gravel and silt. Integral
with the dam, as an extension of the impervious core, is an upstream blanket
covering nearly 500 ha (1,235 ac) of the reservoir floor.  The blanket
provides under-seepage control for the foundation of the dam which is com-
posed of deep alluvial deposits of cobble gravel and sand up to 210 a
(700 ft) deep. The upstream shells are of granular material and
free-draining for stabilization of the upstream slope on reservoir drawdown.
The upstream slope is protected against wave action by riprap. Downstream
zones intercept drainage and seepage and support the core. The downstream
slope is protected against rain water erosion by a layer of stable and
free-draining material.
Auxiliary Dam No. 1. This dam closes a saddle in the left reservoir
rim where a secondary channel in a natural side valley, the Dal Darra chan-
nel, circles the left abutment of the main dam. The dam is similar in
cross-section to the main dam with a sloping core and an upstream blanket.
Auxiliary Dam No. 2. This relatively small dam closes a low saddle
between the Auxiliary and Service Spillways. Its cross-section is similar
to the main dam except it has a steeper core in contact with the rock founda-
tion, with no upstream blanket.
Tunnels. The project includes five tunnels, four through the right
abutment and one through the left reservoir rim between the two spillways.
The four half-mile long right bank tunnels, each 13.7 m (45 ft) in diameter,
follow gently curved alignments through the rock of the right abutment. At
about mid-length the tunnels have service and bulkhead gates which operate in
gate shafts extending up to a gate operation structure located well above the
maximum reservoir level. Tunnel No. 1 is connected to the first-stage power-
house with generating units 1 to 4. Tunnel No. 2 is connected to the
extended powerhouse with units 5 to 8. Units 9 and 10, in a further exten-
sion of the powerhouse, also will receive water from Tunnel No. 2 on comple-
tion of construction in 1985. Tunnels 3 and 4 are presently used for the
release of irrigation water but may eventually be developed for power. The
left bank tunnel, also 13.7 m in diameter, was constructed on the initiative
of GOP/WAPDA to augment irrigation release capacity in the May-July period



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
when the reservoir is at low level. It has provided invaluable operational
flexibility. It was separately funded by GOP, engineered by TAMS and NESPAK
and constructed by a Pakistani based consortium including TJV.
Spillways. The Service and Auxiliary Spillways are located along the
left rim of the reservoir and discharge into plunge pools and thence into the
side valley which returns to the Indus River downstream of the main dam. The
spillways have conventional overflow crests controlled by radial 6ate3. The
Service Spillway has seven gates and a discharge capacity of 17,400 m /sec
(615,000 cfs) at full pool level   The Auxiliary Spillway has nine gates and
a discharge capacity of 22,500 a /sec (795,000 cfs) at full pool level.
Reservoir. The reservoir impounded by Tarbela Dam, has, at full
storage level, a volume of 11.1 M acre-feet (13.7 BCM), a length of about 50
miles (80 km) and a water surface area of over 100 sq mi (25,900 ha).  Its
maximum depth is more than 450 feet (137 m).
Power Plant. The power installation includes a powerhouse with eight
turbine generator units each with 175 KW nominal rated capacity. Two addi-
tional units of the same capacity will begin operation in 1985 to give a
total capacity of 1,750 MW. Present plans are to increase the total capacity
to over 2,800 MW with a powerhouse on Tunnel No. 3. Studies also have been
made suggesting that additional capacity of about 1,000 MW could be gained by
a powerhouse on Tunnel No. 4. A switchyard is located on a filled area
alongside the tailrace, opposite the powerhouse. The powerplant, switchyard
and transmission facilities were financed with separate funds rot involving
the World Bank and under separate contracts. Tarbela Power Plant with its
present eight units represents about 30 percent of the nations total electric
production capacity and about 40% of WAPDA's capacity.



ANNEX 2
- 67 -                         Page  1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tarbela Project Statistics and International Comparisons
PROJECT STATISTICS
Location                                     Northwest of Rawalpindi 40 air miles
Construction Period
Beginning of Construction                 November 1968
Stage I, River in Natural bed             2-1/2 years
Stage II, River in Excavated Channel      3 years
Stage III, River Diverted through
Tunnels                                  1 year
Complete Initial Power Installation        1-1/2 years
Total                                      8 years
Reservoir
Retention Level (Maximum Storage)            472.44 m       1,550 feet SPD 1/
Drawdown Level
Design (Dead Storage Level)               396.24 m        1,300 feet SPD
Assumed for Turbine Operation
(Minimum Power Level)                   405.99 m        1,332 feet SPD
Storage Volume:
At Elevation 1,550 feet (472.42 m)          13.7 BCM         11.1 MAF
At Elevation 1,332 feet (405.97 m)           3.1 BCM          2.5 MAF
At Elevation 1,300 feet (396.22 m)           2.2 BCM          1.8 MAF
leAngth of Reservoir                          80.0 km          50 miles
Maximum Width of Reservoir
(Excluding Siran Arm)                       4.8 km            3 miles
Maximum Depth                                137.0 + m        450 + feet
Main Dan
Type - Earth and rockfill with
impervious cores; foundation
seepage control by upstream
impervious blanket and downstream
relief wells.
1/ Standard Pakistan Datum (based on mean sea level at Karachi).



-68-                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
Crest Elevation                           477.01 m        1,565 feet SPD
Crest Length                            2,743 m           9,000 feet
Maximum Height                             143 m            470 feet
Side Slopes
Upstream                              1 in 2.65            -
Downstream                            1 in 2.0             -
Volume, Including Blanket                  126 mcm        165 million cu yds
Length of Blanket                       2,147 m           7,700 feet
Blanket Thickness
At Dam                                    14 m             45 feet
Upstream End                               3 m             10 feet
Auxiliary Dam No. 1
Type - Earth and rockfill founded
on alluvium with sloping impervious
core and blanket extending to
bedrock.
Crest Elevation                            477.01 m       1,565 feet SPD
Crest Length                               713 m          2,340 feet
Maximum Height                             105 m             345 feet
Side Slopes
Upstream                              1 in 2.65            -
Downstream                            1 in 2.0             -
Volume                                      15 mcm        20 million cu yds
Auxiliary Dam No. 2
Type - Earth and rockfill founded
on rock with impervious core to
bedrock.
Crest Elevation                           477.01 m        1,565 feet SPD
Crest Length                              262 m             860 feet
Maximum Height                              68.58 m         225 feet
Volume                                      1.5 mcm       2 million cu yds
Spillways (Two)
Type - Gated channels forming
Service and Auxiliary spillways
excavated in the rock on the
left bank, concrete-lined from
their crests to flip-buckets,
lined plunge pools with outfall
channel to the river.
Crest level                               454.76 m        1,492 feet SPD
Gates
Service Spillway (7)                  15.24 x 17.68 m  50 x 58 ft
Auxiliary Spillay (9)                 15.24 x 17.68 m  50 x 58 ft
Discharge Capacity at Elevation
1550 feet (472.42 m)
Service Spillway                      18,400 cumecs    650,000 cusecs
Auxiliary Spillway                    23,800 cumecs    840,000 cusecs



- 69 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 3
Design Flood
Maximum Inflow                            60,237 cumecs    2,127,000 cusecs
Maximum Outflow
At Elevation 1,500 feet (472.42 m)      42,200 cumecs    1,490,000 cusec8
At Elevation 1*556*8 feet (474.49 m)   47,295 cumecs    1,670,000 cusecs
Maximum Floods of Record at Attock
August 27-30, 1929 (Gauged)             24,780 cumecs       875,000 cusecs
1841 - Greatest Known (Estimated)       56,640 cumecs    2,000,000 cusecs
Outlet Work
Four concrete-lined tunnels, each 45
feet (13.7 m) diameter up to gate
structures, 2,400 to 2,700 feet (730
to 820 m) long. Service gates - two
13.5 feet x 45 feet (4.1 x 13.7 m)
fixed-wheel gates in each tunnel plus
two bulkhead gates of same size
upstream of service gates. Tunnels 1,
2 and 3 steel-lined downstream of gate
structure, 43.5 feet (13*3 m) diameter.
Tunnel 4, steel-lined downstream of gate
structure, 36 feet (11 m) diameter.
Tunnel 4 controlled for irrigation
releases by two 16 feet wide x 24 feet
(4.9 x 7.3 m) high radial gates at
downstream end. Tunnel 3 similarly
controlled.
Intake Sill Levels
Tunnels 1 and 2                           373.38 m        1,225 feet SPD
Tunnels 3 and 4                           353.57 m        1,160 feet SPD
Estimated Discharge Capacity of
Tunnel 4
At Elevation 1,300 feet                 1,770 cumecs     62,500 cusecs
At Elevation 1,332 feet                 1,883 cumecs      66,500 cusecs
Estimated Discharge Capacity of each
of Three Power Tunnels (Controlled
by Four Turbine-bypass Valve Units)
At Elevation 1,300 feet                   493 cumecs      17,400 cusecs
At Elevation 1,332 feet                   538 cumecs      19,000 cusecs
Release Capability Present Development,
one Irrigation Tunnel plus 10 Turbine-
bypass Valve Units
At Elevation 1,300 feet                 3,002 cumecs      106,000 cusecs
At Elevation 1,332 feet                 3,285 cumecs      116,000 cusecs
At Elevation 1,492 feet                 4,361 cumecs      154,000 cusecs



- 70 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 4
Additional Left Bank Irrigation Tunnel
Similar to Tunnel 4 with Supplementary
Discharge Capacity at 1,500 feet SPD
(457.18 m)                                 2,282 cumecs       80,580 cusecs
Power Plant
Present Installation - 8 turbine
generator units, 4 each on tunnels
1 and 2. Two additional units on
Tunnel 2 to be completed in 1985.
Turbines - Francis type, 239,000 HP
at 136.4 rev/min at 378 feet (115 m)
net design head.
Generators - Rated 175 MW but capable
of 15 percent continuous over load
Maximum Normal Tailwater Elevation           339.83 m        1,115 feet SPD
Minimum Tailwater Elevation (1 Unit)         335.26 m        1,110 feet SPD
Maximum Net Head                             133.19 m          437 feet
Minimum Net Head                              55.77 m          183 feet
INTERNATIONAL COMPARISONS 1/
1. Tarbela is the world's largest volume dam:
(a)  Tarbela (1975)                        122 mcm     (186 million cu yds)
(b)  Fort Peck (USA) (1940)                 96 mcm     (126 million cu yds)
(c)  Oahe (USA) (1960)                      70 mcm     ( 92 million cu yds)
(d) Mangla (Pakistan) (1967)                66 mcm     ( 86 million cu yds)
(e)  Gardiner (Canada) (1968)               65 mcm     ( 86 million cu yds)
(f)  Afslvitdijk (Netherlands) (1932)       63 mcm     ( 84 million cu yds)
(g)  Oroville (USA) (1968)                  60 mcm     ( 78 million cu yds)
2. Tarbela is the world's seventh highest embankment dam.
Rogunsky (USSR) under construction         325 m        (1,066 feet) for 1985
Nurek (USSR) under constrution             317 m        (1,040 feet) completion
(a)  Chiooasen (Mexico) (1977)             240 m       (  776 feet)
(b)  Oroville (USA) (1968)                 235 m       (  770 feet)
(c)  Bennett (Canada) (1967)               183 m       (  600 feet)
(d)  Trinity (USA) (1962)                  164 m       (  537 feet)
(e)  Gespatch (Austria) (1965)             153 m       (  500 feet)
(f)  Infiernillo (Mexico) (1967)           140 m       (  492 feet)
(g)  Tarbela (1976)                        143 m       (  470 feet)
1/ As of 1980.



- 71 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 5
3.  Of the w:rld's largest embankment dams, Tarbela has the largest spillway
capacity.
(a)  Tarbela (1976)                      42,200 m3/s   (1,490,000 cusecs)
(b)  Mangla (Pakistau) (1967)            31,000 m3/s   (1,100,000 cusecs)
(c)  Oahe (USA) (1960)                   24,200 m 3/s   (  850,000 cusecs)
(d)  Garrison (USA) (1956)               23,400 m /s   (  840,000 cusecs)
(e)  Fort Randall(USA) (1956)            17,560 m 3/s   (  630,000 cuseCs)
(f)  High Aswai (Egypt) with 37,000
million m of flood
control capacity)                    2,300 m Is   (   81,200 cusecs)
4.  Of large embankment dams employing an upstream blanket, Tarbela is nearly
two and a half ti.mes as high as the next largest, and three times as high as
the next largest when designed. High Aswan is not strictly comparable (60 m
deep grout curtain and blanket within the dam), nor are Arrow and Fort Randall
which are constructed over openwork gravels.
(a)  Tarbela (1976)               143 m (470 ft)  2,200 m (7,200 ft) blanket
(b)  Arrow (Canada) (1967)        58 m (190 ff)    915 m (3,000 ft) blanket
(c)  Fort Randal (USA) (1956)    49 m (160 ft)    760 m (2,500 ft) blanket
(d)  High Aswan (Egypt) (1970)  111 m (364 ft)    210 m (  690 ft) blanket
5.  The plunge pool energy dissipation,  even for the only part flows
obtaining, is believed to be the greatest in the world for man-made plunge
pools.
Tarbela
Service Spillway at 294,000 cusecs, 11 million H1 1/
Auxiliary Spillway at 240,000 cusecs, 9 million HP 1/
cf. Kariba (Rhodesia) at 213,000 cusecs, 7.2 million HP.
6. The tunnels are uncommonly large in section and excavated volume.
Tarbela
4 Tunnels                         13.7 m (45 ft) diameter u/s, 730 and 820 m
(2,400 and 2,700 ft) long. (17.4 m (57 ft)
excavated bore)
Excavation                       820,000 m 3 (1,090,000 cu yds)
Concrete                         390,000 m  (520,000 cu yds)
Steel Ribs and Lining            20,000 tons
1/ The design calls for dissipation of 24 and 32 million HP for short
periods at full discharge in the event of a 'design flood'.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
cf. Mangla:
5 Tunnels                         9, 9.4 and 7.9 m (30, 31 and 26 ft) diam.
475 m (1,560 ft) long
Excavation                        225,000 m 3 (300,000 cu yds)
Concrete                          111,000 m3 (148,000 cu yds)
Steel Lining                       13,000 tons
7.  The 13.3 m (43.5 ft) diameter steel tunnel liners were the largest ever
made as were the radial irrigation outlet gates 7.3 m high x 4.9 m wide
(24 x 16 ft) acting under 132 m (433 ft) head.
8. The stilling basins for tunnel outlets at Tarbela are unique energy dissi-
pators for low-level outlets. Basins of comparable intensity of energy dLssi-
pation had previously only been employed at the foot of spillways in large
dams:
(a)  Tarbela  (470 ft) (low level outlets, T3 and T4) (1976)
95,000 cusecs (Q max) 791 cusecs/ft (q) 120 ft wide.
(b)  Dworshak (717 ft) (for outlets and spillway at foot of dam)
(1974) (USA) 45,000 cusecs (Q max) 351 cusecs/ft (q)
114 ft wide. 190,000 cusecs maximum, but hydraulic
pump washes out at 45,000 cusecs.
(c)  Bhakra   (742 ft) (on spillway at foot of dam) (1963) (India)
290,000 cusecs (Q max) 1,115 cusecs/ft (q) 260 ft wide.
(d)  Rihand   (305 ft) (on spillway at foot of dam) (1962) (India)
455,000 cusecs (Q max) 685 cusecs/ft (q) 664 ft wide.
(e)  Folsom   (341 ft) (on spillway at foot of dam) (1956) (USA)
250,000 cusecs (Q max), 1,033 cusecs/ft (q) 242 ft wide.
9.  Tarbela was constructed (1968-75) under the largest civil engineering
contract ever awarded. Many aspects of the project were on, or beyond, the
boundaries of then present experience which sometimes required untried
techniques in solving the problems associated with some features.



- 73-                           ANNEX3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Review by FIDIC of Traditional Insurance Coverage
Because of the size and complexity of the project and the problems
that arose following the 1974 damages, the Tarbela insurance experience
induced a critical review of the adequacy of the traditional insurance regime
for major civil works. In this connection, FIDIC sponsored a special seminar
on insurance fo- major civil works in June 1978, in which representatives of
the insurance, consulting and contracting industries as well as of owners and
international agencies participated. The main areas of concern on the
general subject of insuring dam risks can be summarized as follows:
-   exposure of owners to risks excluded from insurance policies and
risks falling between policies, and especially the problem of
establishing fortuity and the exclusion of design error;
-   uncertainty of cover resulting from difficulty in interpretation
of insurance policies;
-   costs of effecting numerous insurance policies on any one
project; and
-   delays in settlement of claims, and the cost of recovery of
disputed claims,
The standard CAR (Contractors All Risks) insurance policy contains
certain exclusions; in particular, it does not provide protection against
design risks, on the reasoning that defective design is the responsibility of
the design engineer and not of the contractor. Thus, to avoid liability
under such a policy it is sufficient for the insurer to demonstrate that the
design was unsuitable; however, in order for the owner to hold the design
engineer liable it would be necessary to prove that the design was not merely
defective but also negligent. Furthermore, even if the design engineer could
be held liable, he would generally not have the resources, and could not
obtain insurance protection to the extent required, to indemnify an owner
against substantial loss in a large and costly project.
Several speakers at the FIDIC seminar questioned whether CAR coverage
was suitable for large scale dam projects, while others stressed that the
international market may have inherent limitations in providing comprehensive
coverage for large scale civil works projects at reasonable prices and that
the present FIDIC standard Condition of Contract have served the civil works



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
indistry, as well as owners, relatively well for over a quarter century.
Still others advocated Owner Procured Insurance (OPI) as a means of premium
savirgs, minimizing conflicts of interest, and even extending the horizons of
the traditional CAR cover to include design errors.
It should be noted that the Bank itself does not insist on its bor-
rowers obtaining CAR or any other specific type of insurance. However, FIDIC
Standard Conditions of Contract (International) for Works of Civil Engineer-
ing Construction, including the latest edition (March 1977) (which is fre-
quently used by Bank borrowers), does require that the contractor place such
insurance.
The points which emerged from the professioral debate which ensued
from the Tarbela experience were:
(a) large and complex projects, particularly those on th.i frontiers
of technology, may not be adequately protected by the traditional
CAR policy;
(b) as a result of advances in the market since the Tarbela insurance
was placed, OPI and other insurance options may become available
as alternatives to the traditional CAR Policy;
(c) the decision to insure should not be taken for granted. Non-
insurance is an option to be considered on the basis of careful
assessment of the risks and the willingness and/or ability of
the owners to carry such risks, and the willingness of the
financial backers to finance projects in these conditions; and
(d) prospective owners of large scale high-risk, civil works projects
may consider retaining specialized and independent insurance
consultants to participate in the analysis of project risks,
to advise about the potentials and limitations of available
insurance options, and, if required by the owner, to assist
in preparing an insurance package.
In December 1981 the FIDIC Project Insurance Steering Committee
issued a "Status Report". The report deals with projects in thich the civil
engineering contract accounts for the major part of the total costs. The
conclusions of the Committee were:
Quote:
1.   The Committee is concerned at the wide range of situations in
which one or more of the parties in a civil engineering project
may not be adequately protected for their respective responsibili-
ties or liabilities by insurance. Some of these situations have
developed in the past and have led to disputes and to financial
embarassment. On future projects, these situations are likely
to have even more serious consequences. There is an urgent need
for reducing the areas of insurance shortfall.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
2.   To ensure better appreciation of and provision for the risks
associated with the construction of major (and/or complex) civil
engiaeering projects, the Committee recommends:
-   that prior to finalization of Tender Documents, Owners of
such projects appoint fully qualified Risk Management Advisers.
-   that Lending Institutions allow fees payable to Risk
Management Advisers for initial and ongoing services to be
financed from project-related loans.
-   that a proviso be inserted in the FIDIC Contract Conditions
which gives the Owner the option of effecting a project
insurance program.
-   that consideration be given to omitting the word "solely"
from the excepted risk concerning dLsign. Although it
could not be claimed that this would remove all contention,
it should reduce the possibility. In doing so, however,
one would reduce the responsibility of the Contractor and
increase the exposure to the Owner. This underlines the
need for broader provision of cover, particularly for the
Owner's design exposure. At the same time, Contractors'
contractual liability for damage to works will then more
closely equate with the Contract Works insurance cover
that they are able to purchase.
3.   The Committee recognize that the insurance industry has
traditionally given a constructive response to requests for
extended or new forms of coverage whenever there was a
reasonable expectation that sufficient demand for such
covers would develop over time at adequate premium levels.
It is recommended that all parties concerned and in particular
Risk Management Advisers and Insurance Brokers impress upon
the insurance market the need for a broader and more flexible
approach in the future especially with regard to design cover.
4.   The Committee considers that the timely appointment of Risk
Management Advisers for a growing number of civil engineering
projecte will ensure that the insurance needs of all interested
parties will be properly appraised at an early date and will be
presented to Insurers in such a manner as to enable Insurers to
meet these needs.
End of Quote.



ANNEX 4
- 76 -                       Page  1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tarbela Financial Program
Following the completion of the report justifying a dam on the Indus
River at Tarbela (ANNEX 7, item 4), the Bank agreed in accordance wit1l the
terms of the 1964 Supplemental Agreement that the balance from IBDF estimated
at US$318 million, would be available for the construction of Tarbela Dam.
There then remained the problem of whether sufficient external contributions
would be forthcoming to complete the financing plan for the Tarbela Project
estimated to cost US$827.5 million in total of which US$492 million was the
required foreign currency.
Discussions with members of the Pakistan consortium indicated that
some US$99 million equivalent could be provided within their aid programs for
Pakistan, but this amount together with IBDF balance was not sufficient to
cover the estimated foreign exchange requirement.
The US Government through Export-Import Bank and the Bank then
offered to provide financing on normal terms to Pakistan in the amount of
US$75 million to complete the financing plan. However, this was to be
residual financing which would be cancelled or refunded if not needed.
The Tarbela Development Fund Agreement 1968 was formulated on this
financing plan. The Agreement provided that the IBDF balance would be the
primary source of funds for the Project and would be treated as the basic
working capital of the Fund. The contributions from Canada, France, Italy
and the United Kingdom were initially for expenditure within each country
only (tied), I/ and amounted to an aggregate of US$99 million equivalent and
would be available as a second source of funds. The US contribution of US$50
miilion (for purchases in the United States) and the Bank contribution of
US$25 million equivalent would provide the third source of financing to the
extent that the other two sources were insufficient. All rupee expenditures
would be met by contributions from Pakistan.
1/ Management of "tied" funds required additional work and control but no
other significant problems were created. In future projects where tied
funds are managed, contract documents should contain reference to this
type of funding and the extra documentation required to be provided by
the Contractor in a similar manner to the "Special Plant" requirements
set out in the basic Tarbela construction contract documents (Contract
651). If details of documentation required are not known, then a general
reference would suffice so the Contractor is aware that he has an obliga-
tion to provide the necessary additional paperwork in order to obtain
release of the tied monies.



- 77 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 2
The Project financing plan excluded costs of land acquisition and
resettlement and the purchase of the power equipment.
The successful bid for construction of the civil engineering works
awarded to Tarbela Joint Venture (para 6.03) contained a foreign currency
requirement equivalent to US$360 million. Although this amount was well
below the total of contributions offered to TDF, together with the IBDF
balance, the total costs of the Project to be met from TDF required to take
account of the foreign currency portion of other costs namely:
(a) Preliminary works not previously paid for from the IBDF prior
to the signing of the Tarbela Agreement on May 2, 1968.
(b) Other construction costs, including the cost of those supply
contracts reimbursable from the TDF, bonus which might be earned
by the main contractor and allowance for any contingencies
which might occur during the construction period.
(c) Engineering and site costs, covering WAPDA's costs and the costs
of WAPDA's Project Consultants (TAMS) and also their General
Consultants (Harza).
(d) Miscellaneous off site costs, and the cost of IBRD's supervision
of the project, including the Administrator's technical and
financial consultants.
As stated above, the March 1968 financing plan estimated the total
cost of Tarbela at US$827.5 milllon including a foreign currency element of
US$492 million. However, these figures included an allowance for preliminary
works, the cost of part of which was to be met by GOP for rupee expenditures
and from IBDF for the foreign currency. This latter amounted to US$8 mil-
lion. The project cost estimate was subject to revision following a review
by the Administrator's Consultants at the beginning of each year. The
estimate of January 1974, prior to the first filling of the reservoir and the
resultant extensive remedial works, increased the total cost to US$954 mil-
lion, of which US$523.3 million was the foreign exchange content. This
amounted to an increase in total of US$51.5 million, of which US$39.3 million
was in foreign currency. Breaking the cost down under the headings above,
a comparison of the allowances under the original financing plan and the
January 1974 estimate are as follows:



ANNEX 4
- 78-                         Page  3
March 1968        January 1974
Financing Plan        Estimate
Total       FC     Total      FC
(a)  Preliminary Works                   32.0       12.0     17.4      1.7
(b)  Construction Costs, etc.           751.2      455.0    855.7   478.5
(c)  Engineering & Site Costs            40.3       22.0     74.1    40.1
(d)  Misc. Off Site Costs, WAPDA
H.Q. Costs & IBRD Supervision        4.0        3.0      6.8      3.0
827 C   &  492. 1r
(e)  Deduct Preliminary Works Paid
LC by WAPDA & FC from IBDF
prior to May 2, 1968                24.0        8.0      -
803.5     484.0    95WZ0  T2Y5.
At this time (January 1974) the balance of foreign currency estimated
as being available for transfer from IBDF, US$318 million had risen by US$24
million to US$342 million. This increase together with income on investments
of US$7 million and the increase in the dollar equivalent valuation of the
contribution from Canada, France, Italy and the United Kingdom brought the
total foreign exchange resources of TDF to US$526 million. However. this
figure assumed that all the tied bilateral aid would be used and at the time
this seemed unlikely. The effect of fluctuating exchange rates of the for-
eign currency contributions to the US dollar had increased the original US$
equivalent value of these contributions by US$3 million. This figure allowed
for agreement by France to increasing their contribution to the original
dollar equivalent value following the re-evaluation of the French Franc in
1970. On the basis of the conditions applying to the usage of tied aid it
was estimated that the total resources would be reduced by US$3 million, thus
the total foreign currency funds available were US$523 million.
It appeared, therefore, that the financial resources were adequate to
meet the estimated cost of completing the Project. However the damage to the
outlets and collapse of tunnel 2 in August 1974 required urgent remedial
measures to render the Project safe before the next flood season. This
requirement led to re-assessment of the financial needs to complete the
Project and although the full extent of damage could not be assessed until
drawdown had been completed, preliminary estimates made it clear that con-
siderable additional finance would be required. Insurance claims had been
initiated (para 5.21), but it was appreciated the negotiations could be
protracted and the immediate problem was to ensare that sufficient untied
non-rupee resources were available to carry out the necessary repairs. Con-
sequently, the contributing Governments were advised of the situation and
negotiations led to the Tarbela Development Fund (Supplementary) Agreement of
1975 being signed on August 15, 1975. Under this Agreement, special con-
tributions were made by Australia (US$1.3 million), Germany (US$6.0 million),
Italy (US$7.2 million), UK (US$4.9 million), US (US$10.0 million) and an IDA
Credit (US$8.0 million) making a total contribution of US$37.4 million.
These contributions were made for the purpose of meeting the costs of the
repair and additional remedial works as determined by the Administrator under
Clause 1.07 of the Supplemental Agreement to ensure the prompt and safe
completion of the Dam. The increased contribution to meet local currency
costs was met by the GOP. The initial estimates of the cost of the work of



- 79                           ANNEX 4
Page 4
restoration and additional works ranged from US$60 million to US$80 million.
The total costs of the first stage of repair and additional works amounted
to US$70 million of which US$56 million was the foreign currency content.
However, only part of these costs were covered by the special contributions
which are estimated to cost US$45 million in total, of which US$36 million
was the estimated foreign currency disbursement. The balance of the repair
and additional work costs have been met from the general resources of TDF.
On completion of these repair and additional works, further problems
arose in the stilling basins and in the plunge pools of the spillways, once
more requiring additional funds which resulted in the second Supplemental
Agreement of 1978. Under this Agreement additional contributions were for
the purpose of helping to meet, to the extent necessary, the remaining cost
of completing the Project. In addition, Pakistan expected to obtain a con-
tribution from Germany and had obtained assurances of assistance from other
countries. Negotiations on the Insurance Claim had been continuing and final
settlement was agreed in the amount of US$16 million. Section 1.08(a) of the
Supplemental Agreement 1975 required Pakistan to return to TDF any amounts
recovered from the Insurers on account of the expenditures incurred. The
amount received was to be credited to each contributor pro-rata to its con-
tribution. However, as part of the Insurance Claim was for repair works not
included under the determination made by the Administrator and therefore paid
for from the general resources of the Fund, only US$13.45 million was avail-
able for return. The allocation to each contributor was:
US$ Millions
Australia                                         0.362
Germany                                           1.720
IDA                                               2.308
Italy                                             2.077
Pakistan                                          2.673
United States                                     2.883
United Kingdom                                    1.427
Total Adjusted Insurance Recovery          13.450
The 1975 Agreement made provision for alternative options for dealing
with any monies recovered by Pakistan from a number of sources, including
insurance, but it was clear that the foreign currency resources of TDF would
be insufficient to met the cost of the further works, and discussions were
held with the contributors as to the disposition of each country's share of
the insurance recovery. The GOP requested that the insurance recoveries were
credited to the Fund. The United States and Australia required their share
to be repaid but Australia made arrangements for a separate contribution to
TDF of an equivalent amount. The other contributors agreed to allow their
share of the recovery to be returned to TDF towards financing cost of the
remaining works. Pakistan's share of $2.67 million plus $0.5 million of the
insurance recovery of US$2.55 million payable to TDF were allocated for
purchase of urgently needed operation and maintenance equipment.
As mentioned above, the contributions from the Saudi, Kuwait and part
of the Abu Dhabi Funds are being received into TDF on a reimbursement basis
and not as direct contributions. This raised certain complications and



- 80 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 5
reqaired procedures to be greed with each fund. For the spillway remedial
works, contracts were already in existence prior to the new loans being
signed and a portion of the non-rupee financing was still coming from TDF.
For these works, once the contracts and existing variation orders had been
accepted as being within the list of good, the reimbursements followed satis-
factorily. However, for the conversion of stilling basin No. 4 (Tunnel 4
outlet works), for which the non-rupee finance was to come entirely from the
Saudi and Kuwait funds, the procedures have been less straight forward.
Discussions between the officials of the Saudi fund and the Pakistani delega-
tion early in 1980 had clarified that direct payments from this fund to the
coLtractor could not be made in less than 45 days from receipt of the
application for payment. This time was well in excess of the contractual
limit of 30 days from receipt of the engineer's certificate set out in the
contract for the Tunnel 4 outlet works, Such delays in payment besides the
contractual implications, could have had an adverse effect on the execution
of the works.  WAPDA, therefore, requested and the Administrator agreed that,
in the interests of the project and on the understanding that the Government
of Pakistan would meet any shortfall in non-rupee financing, bridging finance
for this contract could be provided up to a maximum of US$ 7 M.  This limit
was computed from the assumed cash-flow, based on the estimated payments to
the contractor, allowing three months between the date of disbursement from
TDF to the date of receipt of reimbursement from SDF.
Generally, the procedures have worked satisfactorily but there have
been problems resulting in delays in receipt of reimbursements exceeding the
three months anticipated. Some delays have occured due to late submission of
applications but the main problem has arisen from insufficient or late infor-
mation being provided by WAPDA to show the changes to the original approved
contract for approval by the funding agency prior to the expenditures being
made. As such informationL must originate from the project consultants
thrcugh the authority responsible to government for liaising with the funding
agency, it is essential that the actions to be carried out by the project
consultant to satisfy the funding agency must clearly be set down. These
should include the necessity of the timely submission of information neces-
sary to ensure approval of payments that the engineer proposes to certify to
the contractor, thus, ensuring that the funding agency approves in advance
(i.e. by pre-audit) all payments to be made before the application for reim-
bursement and therefore avoiding the delays that have occured due to amounts
being included in applications for which approval has not been obtained. It
must be recognized that there are considerable administrative costs in apply-
ing and accounting for the reimbursements, over and above the original
financing cost of such a loan, i.e., loss of interest. In addition, it is
inevitable in financing of this sort that there will be a loss of value due
to inflation and currency exchange fluctuations in the present climate of
international financing.
In addition, a contribution from the European Economic Community was
arranged with a further Special Action Credit from the same source following
later. The total contribution received under the second Supplemental Agree-
ment, the EEC, the EEC Special Action Credit and the insurance recovery
including the interest on the insurance monies invested while a decision was
being made on the disposition of the insurance monies amounted to US$111
million. The further resources arranged by GOP from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and



ANNEX 4
- 81 -                         Page  6
Abu Dhabi Funds for Development amounted to US$102 million.  However, the
contributions from the Kuwait and Saudi Funds are not being made to TDF in
advance of disbursements, but have been dealt with on a reimbursement basis,
payments first being made from TDF to the Contractor with reimbursement
following in due course on application from WAPDA. Part of the contribution
from the Abu Dhabi Fund is being received in the same way and part is being
paid direct for works not being administered through TDF.
One of the major further costs incurred was the change of Stilling
Basin 4 to a twin flip bucket design. The construction was completed in June
1983. The foreign currency costs are being met, 83% from the Saudi Fund and
17% from the Kuwait Fund. The balance of the contributions from Kuwait and
Saudi funds have been allocated to remedial work at the Spillway plunge
pools. The contribution from Abu Dhabi was allocated US$6.5 million to
Spillway Works and the remainder to Geotechnical Works. Each of the other
two funds (Kuwait and Saudi) included an un-allocated contingency amount,
the final disposition of which has yet to be determined. Discussions are
continuing with WAPDA in order to make the best use of any uncommitted
amounts in each of these three funds.
An additional contribution of US$ 3 million was called from the
Government of Pakistan in October 1981 under Section 1.04 of the TDF (Second
Supplemental Agreement 1978) and received in January 1982 to meet the tem-
porary shortfall in foreign currency until such time as the Abu Dhabi loan
became effective. The total contributions received under the Second Sup-
plemental Agreement, insurance recovery and the contributions from the EEC
including the Special Action Credit in US$ equivalents are as follows:
Second           Insurance
Supplemental      Recovery & EEC
&  EEC      Special Action Credit
Australia                                       363,008
Canada                                        8,783,707
EEC                                           6,825,492
EEC Special Action Credit                                         7,059,617
Germany Through Pakistan                     10,207,153*
IDA Credit                                   37,688,012*
Italy                                         9,420,375*
Pakistan (Incl. Insurance Recovery)           3,000,000           2,673,000
TDF Insurance Recovery                            -               2,960,304*
UK                                           21,697,008               -
97,984,755          12,692,931
* Includes Insurance Recovery ana Interest as additional contribution.
Attached (Table 1) is a statement of Estimated Resources and Costs of
the Project as at June 30, 1983. The estimated cost of the works is based on
the latest Capital Cost Estimate, which in summarized form is attached
(Table 2).



ANNEX 4
- 82 -                         Page  7
For the purpose of comparison, the estimated foreign exchange resour-
ces and costs as at December 1977 and June 1983 are shown (Table 3). Since
December 1977 there has been a net reduction of US$7 million in the estimated
cost of the original original works, initial repairs and additional works.
The remedial works to the spillways are estimated to cost US$55 million more
than the earlier estimate and the conversion of Stilling Basin 4 to twin flip
buckets US$14 million extra. The allowance for possible future Geotechnial
lWorks in the abutments of the dam are now estimated to cost US$24 million,
together with a further allowance of US$4 million for possible additional
works for direct disbursement from the Abu Dhabi Fund. These works have not
yet been defined by WAPDA.
The changes in the estimates and other financing adjustments would
have increased the December 1977 shortfall to $144 million in foreign cur-
rency resources to US$228 million. To meet this shortfall, total additional
foreign funds of this equivalent amount have been arranged or have become
Available. The figure of US$228 million is comprised of the following con-
tributions and changes in other resources:
Equivalent
US$ Million
(a)  Abu Dhabi                                                   25.0
Australia                                                    0.4
Canada                                                       8.8
European Economic Community                                  6.8
EEC Special Action Credit                                    7.1
Germany                                                     1.2
Kuwait                                                      18.1
IDA                                                         37.7
Italy                                                        9.4
Pakistan                                                     3.0
Saudi Arabia                                                58.6
Insurance Recoveries including interest
attributable to Pakistan and TDF                             5.6
Sub-total      212.4
(b)  In addition, the accumulated income (earnings on
investments) is now estimated at US$24.3 an
increase over the earlier estimates of:-                    16.3
(c)  The balance of the Indus Basin Development
Fund has been adjusted upwards by:                           2.0
Sub-total      230.7
(d)  The net change as a result of currency
appreciations and depreciations on cash
and investments is:                                         -2.7
Total          228.0



ANNEX 4
Page  8
The estimated values of the Kuwait and Saudi fund loans shown above
have been re-assessed on the basis of the reimbursements received. Continu-
ing fluctuations in exchange rates could result in final values varying from
those shown.
As shown by Table 1, overall the present resources appear to be
sufficient to meet the latest estimated requirements provided the contribu-
tions from the Middle East countries can be fully utilized. However, unless
changes are made to the present allocations within the List of Goods for each
of the three Middle East contributions, there will be a shortfall of the
order of US$ 4 million in the non-rupee resources required to meet the latest
estimates.



ANNEX 4
-84-                                        Table 1
DITZPKATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ADINIMSTRATOR FOR THE TARBELA DEVELOPMENT FUND
ZSTMMTED RESOURCES AND COST OF THE PROJECT
JUNE 30, 1983
USS Millions
bbreiqn
Total    Currency   Rupees
-   ~~~12              I/
Indus Basin Development f~md Balance                       354      352           2
Contribution to Tarbela Development Fund;
Foreign
Total    Currency   Rupees
a)   Untied                  98       98
b)   Tied                    76        76           -
a)   Government of Pakistan 461                   461
4)   Special Contributions
under Supplemental      46       37            9
Agreement (1975)
)  e Supplemental Coit-   3
ments 1978 and EEC     323      100-         223
V}   insurance Recoveries     6        6  !         -
9)   ECC Special Action       7         7           -
Credit                          -                     017      324         693
137-1     676         695
Add Accumulated Income                                      24       24           _
Adjustments for currency
fluctuations on cash and
investment                                             -6       -2          -4
Other Contributions                                        108      102           6
EstLmated Total Resources                                 1497      0oo         697
Cost of the Project ( june 1983) Estimate                 1171 -    531         640
Cost of Repairs and Additional Works ( June 1983)           86       56           30
Interest paid on special plant advance and delay
in repayment of total special plant advance                 (7)      (7)          _
Increase or (reduction) in cost of the Project as
a result of changes in exchange rates                     (209)       6         (215)
* Further modifications to Stillinq Basins and
Remedial Works to Spillways                                410      186         224
Allowance for further works in abutments of
cbankment Dams, etc.                                        46       28           18
1497      800         697
Estimates Shortfall/ (Surplus)                                                     -
Balanoe remaining on closure of the Indus Basin Development Fund on December 31, 1977.
Excludes.US$ 8 million, being payments up to May 2, 1969 for Tarbela preliminary
Works which were met from the Indus Basin Development Fund.
Includes insurance recoveries attributable to Germany, IDA, Italy and UK, which
Were allocated to the TDF as an additional contribution under the TDF (Second
Supplemental) Agreement, 1978. Also includes US$ 3 million contribution fro0
Government of Pakistan.
includes Pakistan's share of insurance recoveries and portion allocated for
direct return to TDF.
Foreign currency contributions from Kuwait. Saudi and Abu Dhabi Funds.  Local
currency contributions are the rup"e payments made direct by WAPDA and not
thDough the TDF.



TARDStA DANl PiOJU?
SUMUUW  OF REVISED CAPITAL COST ESSIME - JUNE 30. 1983
Local Currency - Rsa.                                    Foreign currncy - $                         S
Section of Works          Construction   CD L ST   Works   Engineering    Total   Cstructlon Engiering    Total            Routded          Total
Works                  inc.       inc.         LC                                     PC       Total
CD&ST       monc.                                                          FC
Original Works                1260        1533       2793       254          3047        463.7       58.4         522.1      522
O&M                                                               3             3          7.8         1.4          9.2        9
($640.5)                               531.3      531            1,171.8
Repairs                         52         -           52        14           66          19.5        2.5          22.0       22
($ 13.9)                                                            35.9
Additional Work                 55         -           55        20            75         28.1        5.6          33.7       34
($ 15.7)                                                            49.4
Sub Total Original            1367        1533       2900       291          3191        519.1       67.9         587.0      587
Works a O&M                                                                ($670.1)                                                         1,257.1
Spillway Remedial             1303         367       1670        60          1730        130.0        8.3         138.3      138
Works                                                                      ($174.8)
S4 Outlet Works                329          131       460        25           485         39.0         8.5         47.5       48
(5 49.0)
Geotechnical Works etc.         64          16         80        38           118          7.0        9.4          16.4       16
(5 11.9)
Dzilling & Grouting             36          31         67        -            67           7.3         -            7.3        8
Works                                                                      (5  5.8)
Further Works and Geo-
technical Equipment             -                           -                 -            4.2         -            4.2        4
(for direct disburse-
ment by WAPDA (IC) anet
Abu Dhabi Fund (PC))
Sub Total New Works           1732         545       2277       123         2400         187.5       26.2         213.7      214              455.2
($241.5)
Total All Works               3099        2078       S177       414          5591        706.6       94.1         800.7      801
($911.6)                                                         1,712.3
Intereut on Sp.Plant                                                                      -6.7                    -6.7        -7               -6.7
Bank Exchange Differ-
ence                                                                                       1.0                                    1.011.
700.9       94.1        795.0       795
Exchange Rate
Losses                                                                   (S4215.0)         5.0         -           5.0         5            -210.0              ;  X
S696.6       705.9       94.1         800.0      8o0            1,496.6
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 86 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 3
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Foreign Exchange Resources and
Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs
December           June
1977            1983
-----(US$ Million)----
A. Foreign Exchange Resources
(Received or Arranged)
IBDF Balance 1/                               350              352
Contribution tfo TDF 2/
(a)  Untied                                  98               98
(b)  Tied                                    76               76
(c)  1975 Supplemental                       37               37
(d)  1978/79 Supplemental                     -              100
(e)  Insurance Recoveries                     -                6
(f)  EEC Special Action Credit                -                7
Other Contributions                             -              102
Adjustments for Currency
Appreciations and Depreciations               3               (2)
Accumulated Income                              8               24
Total               572              800
B.  Estimate Foreign Exchange Costs
Original Works (1968-1976) 3/                 523              531
Initial Repairs and Additional Works           71               56
(1974-1978)
Remedial Works to Spillways (1977-1982)        83              138
Further Modifications to Stilling Basins
(1981-1983)                                  34               48
Possible Future works (1981-1984)               -               28
Other                                           5               (1)
Total               716              800
Estimated Shortfall/(Surplus)             144
1/ Indus Basin Development Fund.
2/ Tarbela Development Fund.
31 Dates in parenthesis indicate periods during which principal
expenditures were, or are expected to be, incurred.



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLET.ION REPORT
Covenants and Status Compliance
A number of covenants are included in the documents of the several
loans and credits. The most significant covenants and the status of com-
pliance is as follows:
One covenant is included in Loan Agreement (Tarbela Project (548-PAK)
as follows:
"Section 5.01(b). The Borrower shall cause the dam and other
facilities included in the project and the electrical power gener-
ating equipment associated therewith operated and maintained in
accordance with sound irrigation and elec ric utility practices." 1/
This covenant is being complied with although the resources of the Contractor
still provide significant back-up for WAPDA's O&M activities. The Bank has
pointed out (see ANNEX 4) that WAPDA's difficulty and delay in filling sanc-
tioned positions in the 0&M organization could affect WAPDA's ability to meet
this covenant. As WAPDA O&M forces assume the full work load in 1984 and as
increased local currency and foreign currency are made available, compliance
should be strengthened.
Three covenants are included in Development Credit Agreement (Tarbela
Project, Second Supplemental (771-PAR)) as follows:
"Section 3.02(b). Without limiting the generality of
paragraph7R) above, the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association, cause the dam and appurtenant structures
included in the project to be periodically inspected by qualified and
experienced engineers in accordance with sound engineering practice
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
1/ This covenant is repeated in essentially the same language in Section
3.02 Development Credit Agreement (581-PAK), in Section 3.02(a), Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (Tarbela Project-Second Supplemental 771-PAK)), in
Section 3.02(a), Special Action Project Agreement (51-PAK (EEC)) and in
Section 3.02(b), Loan Agreement 2247-PAK.



- 88 -                      ANNEX 5
-88-                          Page  2
condition of such structures, or in the quality or adequacy of main-
tenance or methods of ope ation of the same, which may endanger their
safety." 1/
This covenant has been complied with at one level in that WAPDA have
organized and staffed a Dam Safety Organization within W7APDA. This is hope-
fully an interim arrangement until legislation is enacted creating a separate
and independent organization. Several levels of inspection will be necessary
but since construction work is still in progress, no firm inspection program
has been adopted. With funds available under Loan 2247-PAK, it is tenta-
tively planned that a fir*st detailed inspection with internationally recog-
nized team members will be conducted in 1984/85 with a second such inspection
in 1987.
"Section 3.02(c).  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1978
furnish to the Association for its review and comments, a detailed
program of measures needed to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)
and (b) and a realistic time schedule for its implementation and
shall promptly after receiving the Association's comments, implement
a program of such measures satisfactory to the Association, in
accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the Association."
WAPDA presented a program in 1979 which, with updating and revisions, is the
basis for work in progress. The program is updated approximately every six
months. The most recent program was presented in January 1983. As noted
previously, programs and schedules for inspections are not yet set.
"Section 3.04(a). Prompdly upon completion of the Final
Report under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Project
described in UNDP Project Document (PAK/74/404/A/01/42) as amended,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Asso- ciation on the
Action Program of the Borrower, based on the findings of such Report,
and on th specific programs included therein designed to ensure the
most economic and efficient use of water relases from the Project and
shall thereafter use its best efforts to carry out such programs with
due diligence and efficiency in accordance with a time schedule
mutually accept- able to the Borrower and the Association.
Compliance with this covenant is reflected in the fact that the Government is
rethinking its strategies for the water sector in the light of the Revised
Action Program Report (April 1979). Major new initiatives are proposed in
part supported by the Bank for improvising the efficiency of water use in the
Indus system. Related Bank projects include those for the rehabilitation of
the irrigation systems, for on-farm water management, priority drainage and
area development programs.
a/ This covenant is repeated in Secton 3.02(b), Special Action Project
Agreement (51-PAK (EEC)) and in Section 3.02(b) Loan Agreement
(2247-PAK).



- 89 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 3
One covenant is a'so included in Special Action Project Agreement
(il-PAK (EEC)) as followsr
"Section 2.06. Except as the Administrator may otherwise
agree, WAPDA shall present to the Association for its review by March
31 of each year a detailed annual program reflecting budget proposals
and proposed expetiditures for operation and maintenance of the
project during the subsequent fiscal year, including capital expendi-
tures for permanent operation and maintenance facilities." 1/
This covenant has been complied with.
a/ This covenant is repeated in Section 2.07, Project Agreement 2247-PAK),
except that the date for presentation of the budget to the Bank is set
ahead to February 1, beginning in 1984.



ANNEX 6
- 90 -                          Table 1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prices Used For Economic Analysis 9/
(In Constant Mid-FY83 Currency Units)
Unit         1975-76  1979-80  1982-83  1989-90  1994-95
Agiculture
i.: at Grain 1/2/    Rs/ton        3,255    2,503    2,320    2,031    2,019
Wheat Straw 3/       Rs/ton          148       148       148       148      148
Human Labor 3/       Rs/manday      13.5      15.4      17.2      19.4     20.3
Bullock Labor 3/4/  Rs/pairday    16.8        19.8      21.1     23.6      25.7
Wheat Seed 5/        Rs/kg          3.42      2.63      2.44     2.13      2.12
Fertilizer 6/
N 1/7/         Rs/kg          7.65      6.81     6.34      8.74     9.24
P T/8/         Rs/kg          7.57     5.90      5.77      6.96      7.08
Power
Residual Oil 1/ 9/ 10/ Rs/ton        1,551    2,231    2,736    3,143    3,478
1/ Economic prices of internationally traded commodities based on Bank
commodity price forecasts of July 1982.
2/ Import-based price assumed through 1984-85. Over next five-year period,
linear transition made to export-based price.
3/ Local prices converted into border rupees.
4/ Excludes driver.
5/  5Z premium assumed above wheat grain price.
6/ On kg of nutrient basis.
7/ Based on Urea with 46% analysis.
81 Based on TSP wth 46% analysis.
9/  Details of calculations of farmgate/thermal plant site prices available
in Project File.
10/ C.i.f. Karachi price adjusted for internal transport and handling to
Lahore, the assumed load center for a thermal alternative to Tarbela.



91                           ANNEX 6
Table 2
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Irrigated Rabi Wheat Input/Output Assumptions
(Per Hectare Basis)
Unit    1975-76  1979-80  1982-83  1989-90  1994-95
Outputs
Grain 1/          kg        1,526    1,720    1,924    2,500    3,000
Straw 2/          kg        1,663    1,875    2,097    2,725    3,270
Inputs
Human Labor 3/4/  mandays   45.5       45.3     44.9      45.0     46.0
Bullock Labor    pairdays   15.0       15.2     15.4      16.0     16.5
Seed              kg         92.0     92.0      92.0      92.0     92.0
Fertilizer 5/
N            kg           55       60        65       30       100
P            kg           15        18       21       30        40
i/  1975/76-1979/80 actual Punjab-Sind/Baluchistan weighted average yields
from within Tarbela canal commands. Weighted averaging based en CCA's
in Punjab and Sind/Baluchistan within the Tarbela canal command system.
Source: WAPDA, Tarbela Dam Project Post-Project Monitoring Irrigation and
Agricultural Data, Lahore, June 1979.
2/ Straw yield assumed at 109% of grain yield. Source: Agricultural Credit
Division, Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd, Crops of Pakistan, Karachi, 1980,
p. 186.
3/ Reductions in human labor requirements represent net result of reduced
weeding labor requirements with increased shade effect with higher yields
and increased labor requirements for winnowing and threshing activities.
4/ Includes bullock drivers.
5/ On nutrient basis.



-92-                                              ANNEX 6
Table 3
PAKIStA
TARSUA DAN PWt COWPLON tEPOtS
Ltrbel:t tocrmetl teriation Water  opoi.and a      nAcremntal tMU Crooned Ara
1970-71/                                                            1981-82
1974-75                                                              thr
Vot Avsra  1/  1975-76  1976-77  1977-8  1978-79    179-0    1980-81  1996-97  198-9  2008-09   2016-17
Oct/Nom 14ua_ at Tarbl*e m                W A   3.644        3.975   5.78      7.649     6.656     6.642     6.666     6.680    6.416     *.09   4.045
Oct/Nov Reissma at Canal Nled 3/         NA     3.097        3.379   4.920     6.502     5.658     5.646     5.6 6     5.678    5.454    4.334   3.438
tecapef 41                               NAP   0 387         0.225   0."I    0 373    3.311        0 102    0.3 2    0.*83   0 4"  O. 3t   0.292
Not AVSiLilttles                             1t-          VW-   KW12        6.1'       M        V5         M        r. 3s    f0    TO    T.T
Incremental Net Avallabilities         MA                  0.244   1.019     3.217     1.437     2.634     2.44      2.285    2.080    1.056  0.236
Predicted Pabi Cropped Afre to Tout
Tarbela Caal Comend System witb soa
surfac Water Supplea (Pre-Tarbela)
ad with  ncrnutst  let Aftlabilitle
frm Tarbls_171                        *000 ae   6,058.0   6,196.2  6,628.0   7,806.2  6,857.4  7,500.0  7,399.3  7,314.7  7,205.1  6,648.8 6,191.7
(61853.2)
Neitmted Increm,tal fabi Croppne
Are from Tarbela Net tncremetal
AvallbIstia's (A)                     eo ac                 138.2    570.0  1,748.2    799.6   1,442.0   1,341.3   1,256.7  1,147.1   590.8  133.7
795.2) !
Total lPabi Cropped Are withtin trbelr
Canal Co_ned Sate. 8/                 'C000 a    7,957.0   9,142.7   9,198.2  9,282.3   9,418.6  9,819.2         -        -       -         -       -
Total Incremental Rabt Croppe  A
withti Tarbala Canal Comand
Syate (8)                             '000 at              1,185.7   1,241.2   1,3#5.3   1,461.6   1,862.2       -       -        -         -       -
(A) / (U)                               I                     11.7      45.9     131.9      54.7      77.4      -        -        -         -       -
(60.0)
Total abt ir -t Area withitn trbala
Canal Co_mmnd Spate. 8/               e000 SC   4,653.1    5,20t.1   5,357.6   5,559.4  5,935.2  6,164.2        -        -        -         -       -
Total Incrmental tbi lit Area witb-
in Tarbela Cnal Cond  System (C)    o000 at                  54U.0    704.5    906.3  1,282.1   1,511.1         -        -        -         -       -
(C) / (a)                               2                     46.2      56.8     68.4      87.7 -   81.1        -        -        -         -       -
I/ Pre-Tarbela 5-eaor perid.
it Baed on sonthil river flow  (1970-71/1974-75) and mn  monthly outtfio  from Terbels NtasrveSr (1973-76/190-81). 1981-82/19%-97 level repreets
1976-77/1930w-1 (five-per) averap. Threafter, aedimentation to ssumed to redue active by 8.0 N, or by 88.92, oSer a 45-per period. 4Armitr
linear reduetion, thia wuld yield .132 MU of reduced Octor/November relaeeh p... subsequent to 1996-97.
3/ Based oan VAfA 1atiite of 152 reduction from sourca-epeciftcally, 102 In river and 52 tn link crnala).
T/ BSed on apporttoned apeg a e low loti  Srtrap. 1970-71/1940-t1 historical date from Water t       reu c anmt Directorate. VAIA, Indue  atn
Irristint  SYStem Abtract of Onerattona Data fo  1960-61 to 19RO-SI tahore, November 1981.  as   e    in poat-1980-S1 period calclated at T.5  of
October/NoeMber Ueleare at Canl Rad baed on long-ter  (1970-711980-81) average.
St lncrmata over pre-Tarbala 1970-71/1945-75 average net avatlabtltte  of 2.910 W.
It loed an wnltipla regrteloo-eatimsted eleticity uesig 1970-71/1978-79 data from the 10 Tarbel Cna d  Canls. The followin  relattoa htp
we eattimtedt
lnt.7.161756 + 0.744294 loXl + 0.2343422 1n12
(0.04492)      (0.03594)
Aare X - Total tebi Area ('0oO ac)
II - Total October/llev.ber Canal Witdrawal (W?)
t2 - Total tRbt Private and Public Tubevlls Pumpap (MAP)
Adjusted R2 - 85,42.
*** found sigificant at 995 confidence level.
It Excludes estimted effect of tube_ll puapage.
i Ristortcal date supplied by WApDA.
'/ Area used in *eonamic analysti consistent witb 1976-77. 1978-Rl average.



TADUIIL DAN P103J! COPLS(IO  UPOII?
T!rkisa Pmfttc-Ecmb al hanw
tin .s. .  .li_ _)
1Wy          i99    16         1im0    1n       197      1973    1974    1M         176    197         98    1m        1990    181    12    313    1994              9       3        15      1B    1           1 3990    g1
NMI  .2/
LnwL    rm                        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -   m           93   1152  133M   267   23   24     22   254                             2   27m   2717  27VS   2796  2797  2M
1I1E     CWh.LC   S         1     -        -        -        -       -        - 262          2192   m2          49         -        -  m 76    259         2521      592      206      667      PO      154
m m       1 OI  4/                -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -      104      104      104      t4       104     104      22?      2D       227      227     25       259        9      259      29       259
IEIM       IL 8A91UNS     At                                                                    -       57    set    1           190'4   24       290      4774    6135    6135    61          AM52    7247    7446    7m                  9066
R UITOT                         -        -        -        -       -        -              2192    229       20       163    17    334    5              7521      44    6         7125    761    75    72                      914 Oe   G
TOTAL                          -       -        -        -        -        -      655    2192    2501    305e    2935    3212          02      913   10010 962n    9115    9956              104    040              10725 1OM        11229
i69C1lia .COSI cx         /                -          - --                -            -        -       96      535      469      50     3024      9U5      93       943      990    103910P            109 @3    1123    116     119      1243
IllESTENT COSTS 4J
UEST IMn                        9n       m1       1t1      lo       220     206      37       312      14       132       90       a         s       37      7        47       58       2a       37        -        -        -       -        -
NSRItTI                           6     26 7 4S 45    529           07    27    13           1642    1041       79m    747        654      949     94    *U         1910      454      193      112
PDIER INSTUlTIO                   -        -        -                42      1       403      22       234      193       4       353     63       636       19      482    1245        3       22         -        -       -        -        -
llMIEllo.5                        -        -        -        -       56      166     404      64       317       54       13         ,       5        0                -        -                 -        -                         -
UAIWSNISSIONUIEI                  -        -        -        -        -        6       1e     103      790      60       2         55       30        7       5       52      624      546    217        21        -        -        -        -
0IUI Km                                                                                                                                                                                ts9 -   - -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -  -   4  3  5  39 39 39
SU3Olt.                      644    2870    4936    5481    5324    3355    3034    3013    2516    19               1117    1157    164       160    1745    15         2445    1467       653       24        5       n        3        3
ImET CSTS
VATElt  9                         -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -       16       72       52      19       122        6     100      120      193      214      23      261        259    259    259         9
oERU via  71                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       51       51        1       51       9      101t     lt       10            115         11s5    its       1        it1
ITOtA                          -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       1        7 n     103     244      In       336      13       22       294      314     3        37       374      374        4      374
T1lEtA 913aT                    64    2970    4936    51    5324    3355    03U4    t13    2531    156    1220    1402    1921-   176                      198      311    273        1791    1011      400      30       413      413      413
MAL                          654    2970    4936    59         5m1      3155    3034    3013    2          220      169      102 2M5    27              297    275       37       2919    2073    1494    IS3    1576    11            167 b   IW
ET IKi *I1N                    -654   -2670   -4036   -41   -5324   -3355   -2379    -931              -46      841    It"       1309    3182   562    79          6613    53        7        9376    6           7    9148    9?                      X
*10



'53513
UIU. DAN PRWOE   cUWLitO  am
tublo P*C--e wAe b1 ne
(is h. Kil1sX
A3           M2     92   1941917                  1199   20          6    22       W     f24   206        60    27   29         N20    31l 213 211        21 213   2914         15    2S       17
amm~~~~~                    . 
1Ga13L W U8JIIF=/                    0   Mt  3u   31,69   =                n   ml   O            t Z     231   5    a                   1t11 4 2    tW t U  143  2    mU  In   M    6    Su  23
mr              11i ca m               2 2                   -  in   1   21    at                           -   n    6  221                                      a   11  ts
1EW .    41                 Z       2      2       2         *     25       9      5       5      2       ZW        9    2         9                                                                      
FM     3I11L         . 1         Gm         9    m      US    963   1A6    111091   972   81    Om             9      1157  11102   "A         1a    %6      9651   915   o6         Om     g1         1n  888
JOI.                  t116    115   I2   13     11     16     1454  13113  1201   11434 1121   11915  178 133    11275   075   110    1095  1026 M                           93   99     94     t9         9
JORMUM           Cl        12M1    19    13    1465    UP    10    1221    15            am      i03      74      912    84      7 M     73      661.   59        4     470    467    32       2       214    164
mSIIREI c         ,           
G1LIh31tt                     -       -       -      -       -       .       -      -       .       -       -       .       _      _       _       .       -       _      _       -       .       _      _       _
alllltiUl-                    -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       '       '      '       '       -      '       '       '       -      -       '       '       -       '      -
FE  11tMl6JS           t     Z i -    -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -               -      -       -    .       .       .         -       -       _      _    _       _-
.IUEb.S                           _          _,                    ,    ,___                                                           _,,                           _,_
IRMIIISSIU0  LIE              -       -    -                 -          -       -      -      _  _  _       .       .      .       _       _       _       _      _                              - _  _          -
8O1BURM,     39   3 39   3                                 n    n    J9    9   D9  3J    n    3    J9   3    t9l3                               3 3      9 3    3    39  39   39   3    n
mi a mi
611139                      23      75     23      23      23      23      23     23      23      23      23      25      23     23      2           2    5t 23  23     2       23      25t3             f 259   3 2
NER IIS/  '                 311     111    11IU      I      1 115     l     as 115     115  IU 3IU  11315     1 3 15 It            5          11   5 tU tU 15    115    IUI    135    tt5    115    115    1t5
sSUhoIN.                 n4      374    37      374    374    pA        374    374    3t4    3t4    37         374    37      D4      3t4    D74    D74    3         3t4    3t4    374    374    374    37
~~~~~~
tMiaA 50310l6.             4Ul    413    413    413    41          413   4U3    *13 43   413   4333                1      413    413    413    413    413    413    413    413    413    413    413    41
tON                     1694   tm3    177    3681   1712   1696   1675   117    1533   145    1337   33               126    129    113t   1074   3010    94         88       2      71     69      627    563 
m  i-  61111               9791   102    107   108   109   1096 1243   120   1651    998    919   301    1231   126   *101                       67 101        96       34 92           05 86         01       7
KKItLENM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FM inimLAIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



~ 95 -                     ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 3
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETI0N REPORT
Tarbela Project -- Economic Real Flow: Footnotes
1/ Pakistan fiscal year, i.e. 1968=FY68=July 1, 1967-June 30, 1963.
2/ Cost/benefit streams expressed in constant December 1982 (mid-FY83)
currency values.
3/ Ref. ANNEX 6, Tables 1-3. Represents gross agricultural production using
irrigated Rabi wheat as the representative crop. Quantified agricultural
benefits include only those calculated based on estimated incremental
Rabi cropped area attributable to incremental Tarbela irrigation water
releases. Excluded is Tarbela's contribution to increased productivity
on traditional (pre-Tarbela) Rabi cropped area.
4/ Based on report prepared for project economic appraisal by Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners entitled Evaluation of the Tarbela Project.
5/ Ref. ANNEX 6, Tables 1-3.
6/ O&M plant investments shown here include those for the Reservoir
Maintenance Facility Project (and a subsequent sinking fund US$3.0 M
p.a. to replace exhausted capital facilities). Previous O&M plant
costs included Water Wing O&M costs.
7/ Includes O&M costs of incremental transmission lines.



ANNEX 6
- 96 -                          Table 5
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR.
Tarbela: Relative Importance of Project Cost and
Benefit Streams with Switching Values
Percent of Total          Switching
PWOR of Benefit           Value 2/
or Cost Stream 1/        (10% p.a.)
I. Benefits
A.  Agricultural Benefits                      26.9                  -87.8
B. Power (T'hermal Alternative)
1.  Capital Costs                          13.4                -175.8
2.  Thermal O&M                             2.4                -995.8
3.  Saved Residual Oil                     57.3                 -41.2
Subtotal                        73.1                  -32.3
Total (%)                      100.0                  -23.6
(Rs M)                     (35,588.4)
II. Costs
A.  Agricultural Costs                         14.0                  220.6
B. Tarbela Facilities
1.  Investment Costs
a.  Resettlement                        5.0                 618.3
b.  Construction                       64.0                  48.3
c.  Power Installations                 6.3                 490.5
d.  Tunnel No. 5                        2.7               1,114.1
e.  Transmission Lines                  3.7                 844.5
f.  O&M Plant                           0.4               8,254.2
Subtotal                        82.1                   37.7
2. Recurrent Costs
a.  Water Wing                          2.7               1,141.9
b.  Power Wing                          1.2               2,649.9
Subtotal                         3.9                  798.0
Tarbela Total                   86.0                   36.0
Total (%)                      100.0                   30.9
(Rs M)                     (27,180.5)
1/ Streams discounted at 10% p.a., the assumed OCC for Pakistan.
2/ Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream
that reduces the Net Present Worth (NPW) to zero at the specified
discount rate.



- 97 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TARBELA DAM PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR`
List of References
1.  Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement.                                  1960
2.  Indus Basin Development Fund (Supplemental Agreement).                   1964
3.  Report on a dam on the Indus at Tarbela.  World Bank Group.              1965
(Headed by Lieftinck, P.).
4.  Study of the Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan (4 Volumes). 1967
World Bank Group (Headed by Lieftinck, P.).
5.  The challenge of the Indus and a Nation's Determination to Succeed.  1968
Kirmani, S.S.
6.  Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan (3 Volumes).                  1968
Johns Hopkins Press. Lieftinck, P., et al.
7.  Tarbela Development Fund Agreement.                                      1968
8.  Report by the Administrator to the Parties to the Indus Basin            1971
Development Fund and Tarbela Development Fund Agreements.
World Bank.
9.  Tarbela Dam Construction Reaches Half-way Mark.  Water Power and         1972
Dam Construction, September and October 1972, pp. 317-322, 355-365.
Lovell, L.A., et al.
10. Tarbela Dam Project, West Pakistan (ASCE).  Journ. ASCE, Volume 98   1972
(P02), October 1972 pp. 221-245.
Binger, W. V.
11. Tarbela Dam Project, West Pakistan (BNCOLD).  Joint Meeting of           1972
BNCOLD and Brit. Geot. Soc. February 7, 1972.
Binger, W. V.
12. Some Construction Aspects of Tarbela.  Journ. ASCE, Volume 100           1974
(C03), September 1974, pp. 247-254. Thompson M. H.
13. Tarbela Development Fund (Supplemental) Agreement.                       1975



ANNEX 7
- 98 -                         Page  2
14. Pakistan:  A Review of the Indus Basin Project, 1960-1975.               1976
World Bank.
15. Final Report by the Administrator to the Parties to the Indus            1977
Basin Development Fund Agreements of 1960 and 1964.
World Bank.
16. Tarbela Development Fund (Second Supplemental) Agreement                 1978
17. Tarbela Plan, Problems and Success.  Water Power and Dam                 1978
Construction, July 1978, pp. 29-34. Binger, W. V.
18. Using Tarbela to Revolutionize Water Management and Agricultural         1978
Development in Pakistan. WAPDA. Kirmani, S. S.
19. Draft Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture in Pakistan   1979
(4 Volumes). WAPDA.
20. Fourth Nabor Carillo Lecture - Foundation Design of the Tarbela Dam. 1979
Lowe III, J.
21. Report for Contributors on Settlement of Insurance Claims for            1979
Damage Arising at the Project. World Bank.
22. Evaluation of On-Farm Water Management Research Project, Colorado    1979
State University, under AID contracts. D.F. Peterson, J.L. Walker
and E. W. Coward
23. The Tarbela Experience.  Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.                  1980
24. Engineering Flexibility.  The Tarbela Dam Project.  National             1982
Development, April 1982, pp. 54-58. Lowe III, J.
25. Status of Project.  TAMS.                                                1982



99                                 ~~~~~~PLATE  I
I                                                                                    .~~~~~~~~~ I
GOVERNMENT OF PAKIlSTAN     -TRt    DfEVtttDttUtT fD _
,   ,    .    ~~~ OtOIb  IBANKt
SIR ^INDER         C>OPERS a
GIN IIPARN           LYPm
WATER AND POWER 
I    l                 ~~~~OEaVELOPMFENT A_TMORITYf 
HARZA ENGINEERING CO0                                                              SPELCIAL
IT                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSULTATS
TIPPEtTS - A 8 ETT-MCXeCARTH Y-STR ATTOll|    
AGENCIES
CIVIL vWOR'S CONTRACTORt     SUPPLY CONiTRACtORS
TARaE!A JOINTVENTURE |            MtECHANICtAL AtO    _    _
INDUS RIVER CDNTRACTORS I      ELI!C HICAL tOUtPtItEttT
biOrAHATED SO ;-CoNTRACToIR            OT;tER
TUllbEL LtfRERS II PtNS?OCP.
CHICAGO BRIDGE G IRON CO         SUB-CONTRACTORS
TARBELA DAM PROJECT -ORGANISATION 
bEIAtl - ACE - COYNEt Er 8ELltRI (MAC) we- rd alld by WAPOA fro.
OnoLrd6 197%l to m.d vlrii a_dil odv  oft lollilt "    Sfmo 3 I 4



STAGE m  PROJEC1
PA K I STA N
TARBELA  DAM  PROJECT
STAGES OF CONSTRUCTION
This mop hos been prepored for the                                            6*_   6.4          ,        '  
Project Completion Report of the                                                   jU5S.RKer\
Tarbela Dam  Project. The mop is                                                36                                 A 
based on World Bank 7866,                                                        /                         fIAM .    '\
February, 1973;  amendments  o                                                   q    AFGHANISTAN   .lm
project and a project location inset                                             I                      j aao                                                 /
hove been incorporated in this map.                                                                                                                         ///
c:' <)                  DIVERSION AND
rNsmaphs  p db he bakenk etafexcftsivethy tor ieconvenience of  28">                                28    POWER INTAKES
the readers  nd is excjel,* for the huera use of The Word Bank anthe hte,natjnal     7                 . I
Finance Corporaton. The denonlinatuns usendan te boaIs shown on fthis mp do not      r1
irnp4, on fhe pail of The WOd Bank and he internationalFInance Coporation, any judgment                        INDIA          IRRIGATION
on fte Ieal status of any temntory or any endorsent or acceptance of such boundanes                                              INTAKES
.24' Afabion           *.~)24-
Sea                                1   GANDAP TUNNEL
_._______________________________________________________________________                  644                   72'       76      IRRIGATION
TUNNELS
STAGE I                                                       STAGE II                                                                ._- -
POWER TUNNELS
BUTTRESS        IPRVIOUS BLNE8..12.?<I)1
OUTLET CHANNEL



IBRD 3891 (PCR)
PROJECT   PLAN                                            I                                          --- -----   MAY 1983
IMPE    U lIMPERVIOUS BLANKET EXTENSION
-J/                          A                                                              2/0   
MPERIOUSBLAN EFT $ANK
,,,yrii   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~TUNNEL
BUTTR ES$ DAM
SWTHYR //g/        :           /,                                                      a
a t -- - - POW   R OU E  -                   /<                             N 
R     OUTLETS     M           DAM
-1/1/
g j2 /  13000  2    0      00                         3000
r J~~~



