RESTRICTED
FL 4         P                 Report No. P-616
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN FOR THE TARBELA PROJEC
AND ON
PROPOSED EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATES OF LOAN 266-PAK
(INDUS BASIN PROJECT)
PAKISTAN
June 18, 1968



ANNEX 1
Extract from
STUDY OF THE WATER AND POIER RESOURCES OF WEST PAKISTAN
Volume 1 of the General Report
The Tarbela Dam
The centerpiece of the programs put forward by the Bank Group is
the Tarbela Dam on the Indus. Completion of this dam by 1975/76 is a
crucial element in the strategy outlined in this report for meeting Wlest
Pakistan's need for additional supplies of irrigation water and electric
power. The detailed programs proposed have been built on the assumption
that the dam would be completed on schedule, and the importance of the
project is so great that this expectation has influenced and conditioned
almost al the other proposals made regarding future development. The
Tarbela Dam is estimated to cost the equivalent of about $775 million, ex-
cluding duties, taxes and interest during construction and all the costs
of power plant and its housing. The main purpose of the dam would be to
store water from the summer flood season, when Indus discharges are greatly
in excess of the amount that could be used for irrigation purposes even
with an expanded canal system, to the rabi (winter) season when the main
food crops are grown but natural river flows are low and variable and
irrigation deliveries consequently unreliable. At its initial capacity,
the Tarbela Reservoir will store sufficient water to increase rabi river
flows on the Indus in a mean year by about one-third and those in a dry
year by about one-half.
The Tarbela Dam is such a strategic element in the integrated
programs proposed that it is extremely difficult to quantify the contri-
bution which it makes itself to increased production. Nevertheless the
Bank Group tried to measure this contribution and it believes that, to the
extent it is measurable, a reasonable conservative range for the rate of
return would be about 9-13 percent. The Bank Group also attempted to weigh
the costs that would be involved in a 10-year delay of Tarbela by comparing
the costs of the recommended program with the costs of a hypothetical
alternative making up for the 10-year lack of Tarbela water by the use of
groundwater mining techniques that have potential in Pakistan but have
not yet been tested there; the alternative program worked out $50 million
more expensive in terms of the present worth of economic costs and it
could not provide a degree of security comparable with that provided by
a program including Tarbela in 1975. However this alternative program
was the cheapest of several alternatives considered; it involved interim
developments in power and irrigation significantly different from those
that would be best in a program built around Tarbela. Thus unforeseen
delay in the execution of Tarbela, even of shorter duration than 10
years, would likely result in greater losses than those stated above in
financial terms and in terms of increased risk, because it would mean
that no integrated program could be firmly chosen and that other parts
of the recommended program, which are undertaken, would be out of stop.



-2-
The Bank Group's estimates suggest that about three-quarters
of the benefits of Tarbela would accrue to agriculture. System analyses
indicate that deliveries direct from Tarbela storage would account for
more than 10 percent of total rabi supplies of irrigation water in 1985
and 25 percent of the water delivered to farmers additional to that which
they now receive in rabi season. The availability of additional surface
water in rabi season is particularly important to further development in
those areas which are not underlain by fresh groundwater -- about 40
percent of the Punjab and 80 percent of the Sind. Additional rabi canal
supplies are a sine qua non of further irrigation development in areas
with the most saline groundwater (about 11 million acres or 35 percent
of the canal irrigated area) and, in the 15 percent of canal irrigated
area underlain by groundwater of intermediate salinity, additional rabi
canal supplies can be mixed with pumped groundwater and can thus have a
multiplied effect on total rabi water supplies in such areas. Neverthe-
less the total addition to rabi canal deliveries that would come from
Tarbela Reservoir is only one part of the benefit that the project would
confer on agriculture. Existence of a large reservoir on the Indus will
make it possible to regulate to a significant extent the time pattern of
river discharges and hence to match canal deliveries, in combination with
supplies pumped from the groundwater aquifer, to the rather inflexible
time pattern of crop-water requirements in a way that has not been possi-
ble in the past.
About one-quarter of the total benefits of Tarbela relate to
the hydroelectric potential of the dam according to the Bank Group's
studies. The Bank Group proposes installation of 12 turbine generators,
each of nominal rating 175 mw, over the years 1975-80.  With this develop-
ment of its hydroelectric potential Tarbela will contribute more than one-
quarter of the total amount of electric energy required by West Pakistan
over the decade 1975-85. By 1985, according to the Bank Group's projec-
tions, Tarbela will be contributing some 10 billion kwh or more than one-
third of the Province's total annual requirements of electric energy at
that time. Under mean year flow conditions 12 turbines would be capable
of generating 12 billion kwh, and the additional 2 billion kwh, which
would be produced almost entirely in the summer flood months, would be
absorbed gradually after 1985 as loads on the power system grow. In the
course of its analysis of the effects of a 10-year postponement of Tarbela
the Bank Group found that completion of Tarbela in 1975 woild save some
700 trillion Btu of natural gas -- or about 10 percent of W-est Pakistan's
known usable reserves of gas -- that 'would otherwise have to be devoted to
generation of electric power over the decade 1975-85; such a saving is im-
portant because known gas reserves are limited and gas is required as feed-
stock for the production of badly needed fertilizer.
These figures make it clear that Tarbela will have a very large
impact on the irrigation and power systems of lest Pakistan and they thus
underline the importance of careful planning in advance to make sure that
the systems in existence by 1975 are well prepared to absorb the irriga-
tion and power supplies from the dam as quickly and as effectively as possi-
ble. It is not only the scale of the project which emphasizes the need



-3-
for a very active development effort in the meantime to prepare the way
for Tarbela. The project is also very expensive; irrigation supplies
from Tarbela have advantages of flexibility as mentioned, but they will
cost Pakistan about three times as much per acre-foot as water pumped
from the groundwater aquifer within the limit of annual recharge by seep-
age from the surface; theoretically substantial additions to rabi water
supplies could be made at lower cost for a number of years by pumping be-
yond this level or tmining' the groundwater aquifer in some areas, but
this technique would not serve to increase water supplies so rapidly as
surface storage, it would be less flexible, it might be hazardous, it
would be inconsistent with the optimum integrated pattern of water-
resource development and in the long run it would be more expensive.
Thus any substantial addition to rabi irrigation supplies would inevit-
ably be costly. This emphasizes the need to make sure that water is
used to the greatest possible advantage. The time required for construc-
tion of Tarbela -- it could not be completed before l975 -- also under-
lines the need for other immediate efforts to improve agricultural produc-
tivity. Increased production of food and fiber are required immediately,
and Tarbela will be of no help for another eight years.



t~~~~~~~~~~~
ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN - TARBELA FROJECT
Revised Estimate of Project Cost
on Basis of Italian-French Consortium Tender
US$ i9illion Equivalent
Total         Foreign Exchange
A. Preliminary Works                           32.0                  12.0
B. Construction Costs:
(i)   TJV Tender (excluding
Custons Duties and
Sales Taxes)                517.8             360.2
(ii) Associated Works under
iMain Contracts              10.7              10.7
(iii) Provision for Additional
Costs:
Steel liner (extra costs)  5.3                4.5
Extra works which may
be ordered during the
contract period          13.0               9.0
(iv) Unresolved Engineering         26.0              18.0
(v)   Provide for Claims and
Contingencies                65.0              45.0
(vi)  Bonus                          8,4               7.6
(vii) Customs Duties, etc.         105.0               -
751.2                455.0
C. Engineering and Site Costs:
(i)   WAPDA                          6.3               -
(ii)  Project Consultant            34.0              2290
40.3                  22.0
D. Supervision                                  4.0                   3.0
827.5                492.0



-2-
Explanatory Notes
Item B (iii)
Extra works which may be          On the basis of experience at M,iangla
ordered during the contract       the extra works ordered amounted to
9% of the tender sum.
In view of the greater extent of the
exploratory works undertaken in advance
at Tarbela it is considered reasonable
to reduce this percentage to 211 or
$13.0 million total (F.E. $9.0 million).
Item B (iv)
Unresolved engineering            The items considered likely to involve
increased cost on the tender sum in the
light of experience and taking into ac-
count the Engineer's estimate of the
works are:
Spillway                 $ 3.2 million
Grouting and Drilling      3.0  It
Tunnelling and Steel
Supports                 12.5   '
Cofferdams and Silt
Problems                  8.0   "
$26.7 million
This is equivalent to 5% of the con-
struction tender.
Item B (v)
Provide for claims and            Claims on previous Indus Project works
contingencies                     have amounted to 4% to 5% of the
tender sums.
A percentage of 5% for claims has been
assumed for Tarbela.
A general contingency of 7-Vo has been
added in accordance with normal
practice for works of this size and
duration.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ISLA1MIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN FOR THE TARBELA PROJECT AND ON PROPOSED
EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATES OF LOAN 266-PAK (INDUS BASIN PROJECT)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on proposals that:
(a) the Closing Dates of Loan 266-PAK be extended to permit
part of the loan proceeds to be used to help finance
the Tarbela Project, and to enable a sum of $10 million
allocated to meet interest and other charges during the
construction of the Indus Basin Project works to be fully
used; and
(b) a loan of $25 million equivalent be approved to provide
residual financing for the Tarbela Project in accordance
with the arrangements approved by Executive Directors on
April 18, 1968.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.       In his report dated March 29, 1968 (P-590) in which Mr. Woods recom-
mended that the Bank become the Administrator of, and a contributing party
to, the Tarbela Development Fund, the background to these recommendations
was set out at some length.   For convenience of reference a brief recapitu-
lation follows.
3.       In September 1960 India and Pakistan settled a long standing dispute
between them on the use of the waters of the Indus River and its main
tributaries, by signing the Indus Waters Treaty 1960.   This agreement was
reached through the good offices of the Bank and as the result of the willing-
ness of a number of countries and the Bank to make financial contributions
towards the cost of works in Pakistan to give effect to the allocation of the
waters agreed upon.   Concurrently, the Indus Basin Development Fund Agree-
ment 1960 was signed by Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Pakistan,
the United Kingdom, the United States and the Bank.   Commitments to make
contributions totalled $895 million, including a payment by India under the
Indus Waters Treaty of £62,060,0002/   This Agreement also included a Bank
commitment to provide a loan of $80 million.   This commitment was effected
by Loan Agreement No. 266-PAK of September 19, 1960a/.
1/ Of which 07 880,000 has so far been set aside in a Special Reserve to meet
payments by Pakistan to India, should the transition period provided for
in the Indus Waters Treaty 1960 be extended.
2 The amount of the loan was $90 million equivalent as $10 million was allo-
cated to cover interest and other charges during construction.



- 2 -
4.       It became apparent when some civil wTorks contracts had been
awarded, however, that the funds committed would be insufficient to
complete the program of works contemplated in the Indus Basin Development
Fund Agreement.   Under the Indus Basin Development Fund (Supplemental)
Agreement of 1964, an additional amount equivalent at that time to
$315 million was made available by the parties to the 1960 Agreement, to
cover the balance of the foreign exchange cost of the works.   The
Supplemental Agreement of 1964 incorporated arrangements whereby Pakistan
undertook to meet the full rupee costs of completing the works. The
Bank's contribution took the form of an IDA Credit (No. 60-PAK of July
21, 1964) amounting to $58,540,o0o equivalenit.
5.       Under the terms of the Supplemental Agreement of 1964, first
priority was to be given to the financing of the works included in the
original program other than the dam on the Indus River, tubewells and
drainage works.   But the financing plan adopted at that time was estab-
lished so that a foreign exchange balance would be available for the
Tarbela Project, or some other water or power projects in West Pakistan.
Provision awas made for a Study of the Water and Pomer Resources of West
Pakistan to be carried out by the Bank.   The Supplemental Agreement of
1964 further provided that any balance of foreign exchange available to the
Indus Fund would be used to meet the foreign exchange costs of the Tarbela
Project if, on the basis of the Study, Pakistan and the Bank agreed that
the Tarbela Project was justified.   This Study, which was carried out by
several firms of consulting engineers and a group of Bank staff directed
by Dr. P. Lieftinck, endorsed the high priority given to the Tarbela
Project by Pakistan and confirmed that the project was not only technically
feasible but also economically justified as part of a comprehensive
development program.
6.       Discussions subsequently took place on various occasions within
the framework of the Pakistan Consortium to consider how the balance of
the funds for Tarbela might be provided to supplement the sum likely to be
available for transfer from the Indus Fund, currently estimated at
$324 million.   Meanwhile the Pakistan authorities had proceeded with
preparations to award a contract for the civil engineering works.   In
September 1966 advertisements were placed in the international press
inviting contractors to apply for prequalification.   Forty-three firms
submitted particulars and from these, with the agreement of the Bank, four
consortia, each comprising several firms, were prequalified.   Tender
documents mere issued to the prequalified consortia on March 23, 1967.
7.       At meetings held at the Bank at the end of July 1967, sufficient
offers of loans to assist in financing the project were made to justify
fixing a date (November 30, 1967) for the opening of bids for the main
civil works contract.   As several offers of bilateral aid were made on a
tied basis, it had been necessary to examine the practical prospects for
the utilization of these sums within the framework of full international
competition among contractors, and full freedom for the successful
contractor to purchase his imported supplies in the cheapest market.   It



was estimated that the amount of these bilateral offers which could be used
would be something like $105 million.   Taking into account the estimated
balance of the Indus Fund, there remained a residual foreign exchange
requirement of about $75 million to be filled.   The President of the U.S.
Export-Import Bank and Mr. Wloods agreed to recommend to their respective
Boards of Directors loans in amounts of up to $50 million and $25 million
respectively to fill this residual gap to the extent required.   Executive
Directors were informed accordingly on August 10, 1967 (SecM67-218).
8.        Bids for the main civil works were opened in Lahore on November
30, 1967.  Following the evaluation of the tenders, the Government of
Pakistan and the West Pakistan Water and Power IJavelopment Authority (VTAPDA),
the government agency entrusted with the carrying out of the Indus Basin
works and of the Tarbela Project, recommended that the award be made to a
consortium of Italian and French firms led by the Italian firm Impregilo of
Milan.
9.        At meetings held in Paris on March 5 and 6, 1968, agreement in
principle was reached on the terms of the Tarlbela Development Fund Agreement.
On April 18, 1968 the Executive Directors approved a resolution authorizing
the signature on behalf of the Bank of the Tarbela Development Fund Agree-
mrent whereby, inter alia, the Bank would become Ad-ministrator of the Fund and
make a contribution of up to $25 million to complete the financing of the
external costs of the project.   By May 2 this agreement had been signed by
all the Parties and had come into force.   On May 14, 1968 the main civil
works contract was awarded to the successful tenderer and on May 15 the order
to proceed with the work was given.  It is now necessary to settle the
terms and conditions on which the Bank's contribution to the Fund will be
made. The Government has confirmed that the proposed terms and conditions
of the loan are acceptable.
10.       The Bank has made 24 loans to Pakistan totalling about $460 million.
of which 16 are fully disbursed.   The Association has made 24 credits total-
ling $331 million, of which 5 are fully disbursed.  The following is a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Pakistan as at May 31, 1968:
Amount (US $ million)
Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Loans/Credits fully disbursed               218.2    111.5
Total (less cancellations)               459.9   321.2
of which has been repaid               104.8
Total now outstanding                     355.1
Amount sold                   20.8
of which has been repaid    16.6          4.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA            350.9    321.2*
Total undisbursed                         152.7    106.3       259.0
* The Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit, No. 117-PAK ($10 million)
was signed on June 13, 1968.



- 4 -
11.       Details of undisbursed loans and credits, and comments on delays
in execution were given in my Report and Recommendation on the Second West
Pakistan Highway Project (P-615) (IDA/R68-27) dated June 13, 1968.
12.       IFC has made 8 commitments in Pakistan totalling $17 million.
The outstanding commitment net of repayments, cancellations and sales of
r            loans is $14.2 million.   IFC is presently considering investment applica-
tions for fertilizer, and additional jute and paper projects.   The IFC
operations in Pakistan are proceeding satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
13.       Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:            Tarbela Development Fund.
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to
$25.0 million.
Purpose:                To assist in financing the external
costs of the Tarbela Project.
Amortization:           The loan would be for a period of
25 years repayable in semi-annual
instalments commencing March 1, 1978
and ending September 1, 1993.
Interest Charge:        Rate current at time of first withdrawal
from loan.
Commitment Fee:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum accruing from
the date of the first withdrawal from
the Loan Account.
PART III - EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATES OF LOAN 266-PAK OF SEPTEMBER 19, 1960
14.       As mentioned above, Loan 266-PAS signed on September 19, 1960
provided $80 million equivalent toward the Indus Basin Development Fund (the
Indus Fund) and $10 million equivalent to meet interest and other charges on
the Loan during construction.   The present Closing Date of the Loan is
September 30, 1973, but Section 1.02(b) of the Loan Agreement provides that,
unless the Bank otherwise agrees, withdrawals on account of interest and
other charges from the $10 million portion of the Loan may be made only up
to April 1, 1968.
15.       Disbursements from the Loan are governed by the provisions of the
Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement whereby twice a year the Bank as
Administrator makes calls on the contributing parties in prescribed



- 5 -
proportions to provide the funds to meet the estimated expenditure in the
next six months.   Calls made by the Administrator are, among other things,
divided between grant and loan contributions in the ratio 65:35.   The
amounts called on account of loan contributions - which concern solely the
United States and the Bank - were originally to be apportioned between the
Bank and the United States loan in the proportion of 80 to 70 because the
initial loan contributions to the Indus Fund were $80 million and
$70 million respectively.
16.       As of May 31, 1968, the undisbursed balance of the $80 million
portion of the Loan amounted to about $53.9 million.   At the same date, the
undisbursed balance of the amount allocated for interest and other charges
was about $7.4 million.
17.       Disbursements under Loan 266-PAK were affected by the 1964 arrange-
ments to provide the Indus Fund with additional resources and by arrangements
agreed to by the Bank at the request of the United States concerning dis-
bursement of their respective loan contributions.   In the first place, the
Bank Group's additional contribution of $58,54o,ooo equivalent, which is
treated as a loan contribution, took the form of an IDA credit (Credit 60-PAK)
and it was then agreed that this credit would be disbursed before any further
disbursements would be made from Loan 266-PAK.   Credit 60-PAK was fully
disbursed on June 28, 1967, and disbursements from Loan 266-PAK were then
resumed.
18.       In addition, by agreement between the United States and the Bank,
to which Pakistan was not a party, the bulk of calls on the loan funds were,
up to 1964, met out of the first United States (DLF) loan of $70 million.
Furthermore, in November 1965, after the first United States loan had been
fully disbursed, new arrangements were made at the request of the United
States whereby further loan contributions called by the Administrator would
be met first from Bank/IDA contributions until the aggregate amount disbursed
from Bank/IDA reached $120 million.   The second United States loan of
$51.22 million would then be withdrawn and thereafter the balance of the
Bank/IDA contribution ($18,540,000) which would be disbursed from Loan
266-PAK.   In other words, after the undisbursed portion of Loan 266-PAK is
reduced to $18,540,000 (probably by December 1968) no further withdrawals
will be made until the United States loan has been fully disbursed. Since
calls are divided between grant and loan contributions, the last disburse-
ment under Loan 266-PAK will occur only when the last call is made on the
balance of the Indus Fund available to finance the Tarbela Project, i.e.
probably not until late in 1975.   Accordingly, I recommend that the Closing
Date of the Loan be extended from September 30, 1973, until December 31,
1975.
19.       As a result of the arrangements outlined above, disbursements from
the portion of Loan 266-PAK allocated for interest and other charges during
construction have been slower than anticipated.   During the discussions on
the financing of Tarbela, the representatives of the Government of Pakistan
requested the Bank to extend the terminal date of April 1, 1968 on this



- 6 -
portion of the Loan.   On the basis of present estimates, the date would
have to be extended to October 1, 1970 to permit full utilization of the
Loan.
20.       In the President's Report dated April 18, 1960 on the proposed
Bank contribution to the Indus Fund, Mr. Black stated: "In vierw of the
fact that priority is to be given to the works needed for replacement and
that Pakistan would not begin to enjoy development benefits until towards
the end of the period of construction, interest on the proposed Loan would
be capitalized for the first eight years ....."  Conatruction of all the
Indus Basin works, other than Tarbela, will not be completed until 1971, but
very good progress has been made and much of the replacement works are now
in operation.   Nonetheless, as the deferment of the disbursement of Loan
266-PAK, and therefore the reduction in interest charged during the period,
were largely the result of arrangements made between the United States and
the Bank, to which Pakistan was not a party, I recommend that the request of
the Pakistan Government be agreed to and that April 1, 1968 be replaced by
October 1, 1970 as the terminal date for the use of the Loan to meet
interest and other charges during construction.
PART IV - THE TARBEIA DAM PROJECT
21.       As described earlier in this report and in Mr. Woodst report
(P-590) of March 29, 1968, under the terms of the Supplemental Agreement of
196h, provision was made for a Study of the Water and Power Resources of
West Pakistan to be carried out by the Bank.
22.       Copies of this Study, which was not only a particularly thorough
appraisal of the Tarbela Project, but also placed it as a high priority
project in the context of a very comprehensive program for the development
of the water and power resources of West Pakistan, were circulated to the
Executive Directors on August 31, 1967 (R 67-135).   For ease of reference
an extract from Volume I of the Study, summarizing the benefits of the
Tarbela Project, is attached as Annex 1.   A more detailed consideration of
the issues is to be found in Chapter VII of Volume I and in Volume III of
the Study on the Program for the Development of Surface Water Storage.
23.       The surface waters of three major rivers are available to West
Pakistan to meet the requirements of the extensive irrigation system
presently in existence and to provide for its future development - the Indus
and two of its tributaries, the Jhelum and the Chenab.   The average annual
flow of these rivers is about 142 million acre-feet (MAF) of which the Indus
accounts for more than 65 percent.   On completion of the Indus Basin
Project, the only river with any sizeable surplus flow will be the Indus.
This surplus flow occurs during the monsoon months of June, July and August,
and the first step towards developing it would be the construction of a
storage reservoir.   There is a shortage of water during the rabi season
(October to April) in much of the irrigated area. The dam could also be the
major new source. of power generation during the period 1975/1985 when new
capacity totalling upwards of 2,000 MW is expected to be needed.



- 7 -
24.       The Tarbela Project will help to meet these requirements.   It
consists of an earth and rockfill dam across the Indus River, about six
miles downstream from Tarbela Village, some 40 miles northwest of Rawalpindi.
The dam, 485 feet high and about 9,000 feet long at its crest, mill be
flanked by two auxiliary embankments on the left abutment.  Altogether, the
three embankments will contain about 180 million cubic yards of fill
materials.   The embankments are designed to impound 11.1 MAF of Water which
would provide initially 9.3 MAF of live storage.   Two spillways with a
combined discharge capacity of 1,670,000 cusecs will be provided at the left
abutment to handle a flood inflow of 2,127,000 cusecs, over twice the
largest flood on record to date.
25.       Four tunnels, each 45 feet in diameter at the upstream end, are
planned in the right abutment to divert the flow of the river during con-
struction. Three tunnels will be designed to serve subsequently as power
intakes and be equipped in such a way that each will be able to supply four
generating units. The fourth tunnel is designed as a permanent irrigation
water release outlet.
26.       The design envisages that the Tarbela power plant, when completed,
will have 12 generating units each rated at 175 MW.  The present project
includes a powerhouse structure to accommodate four such generating units, and
the transport and installation of such units with related equipment. The Fund
Agreement provides, Section 7.01(d), that Pakistan will take action satis-
factory to the Bank for the procurement of these units and related equipment
so that the carrying out of the project is not impeded.   The project is
expected to be completed by April 1976.
27.       Although the Study found that the Tarbela Project would earn a
satisfactory return when evaluated on a project by project basis, it went on
to suggest how additional benefits would be achieved if the project were
carried out as part of an integrated program of development of the agricul-
ture, water and power resources, and if adequate measures were taken to carry
out the other parts of the program.   It seems appropriate, therefore, that
the Bank should reviem with the Government of Pakistan the action being
taken to carry out an integrated program of development and to report our
conclusions periodically to the Executive Directors and to Consortium members.
After discussion with the Pakistan Delegation to the recent Pakistan Consor-
tium meeting, Mr. Cargill, the Chairman, told the Consortium that the Bank
intends to send a mission to Pakistan later this year to review in some depth
the measures that are being taken and that are planned to be taken to
implement an integrated program of agriculture, water and power resources
development.   The results of the review would be available for consideration
in the preparation of Pakistan's next Five-Year Plan, the Fourth Plan,
covering the period 1970/75.  Thereafter it is intended that a review of the
progress being made would form part of the annual economic report.   It is
clear from a recent Mid-Plan Review of the Third Five-Year Plan and an Annual
Plan for 1968-69 that the Government has every intention of giving high
priority to the kind of measures advocated in the Study, and the Pakistan
Delegation confirmed this in the course of the recent Consortium meeting. As
Pakistan is still heavily dependent on capital inflow to finance a substantial
proportion of its development expenditures, the pace at which the integrated
program is impleMented will be dependent in part on the amount of external
aid which continues to be made available to Pakistan.



PART V - TARBELA PROJECT: FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
28.      The revised cost estimates of the project, based on the successf'ul
tender, amount to $827.5 million equivalent, including a foreign exchange
component equivalent to $492 million. A more detailed breakdown of this
estimate is attached as Annex 2.  Although the proportions of the components
of the estimate have changed, the estimated foreign exchange requirements
remain very close to the amount arrived at in the Stucty of the Water and
Power Resources of West Pakistan (Volume III, page 109).  In the main, an
increase in the foreign exchange component of the main civil works contract
has been offset by a reduction in the provision for contingencies which now
can be accepted.
29.      The costs of the works will be met from the fund established by
the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement to which Pakistan, the other
participating governments and the Bank are parties. The Tarbela Development
Fund, which will be held in trust and administered by the Bank, will receive
contributions from the parties as well as the transfer from the Indus Basin
Development Fund of the foreign exchange balance available in excess of the
foreign exchange costs of the Indus Basin works. With theee works now well
advanced and, in particular, with the Mangla Dam virtually completed, esti-
mates of this balance are now reasonably firm and amount to about $324
million equivalent.  This assumes, as now seems likely, that it will not be
necessary to make payments from the Special Reserve referred to in footnote
1 on page 1.
30.      The following commitments to contribute to the Tarbela Development
Fund have been made:
Form of
Country             Amount           Contribution   U.S. Equivalent
Canada            Can$5,000,000           Tied loan        $ 4,625,000
France            F 150,000,000           Untied loan      $30,383,000
Italy             Lit 25,000,000,000       Untied loan     $40,000,000
United Kingdom    £10,000,000              Tied loan       $24,000,000
United States     $50,000,000              Tied loan       $50,000,000
France and Italy have also expressed willingness to make a supplementary
contribution of up to F 50,000,000 (about $10 million equivalent) and up to
Lit 6,250,000,000 ($10 million equivalent) respectively, if at a later stage
it is established that the foreign exchange funds from the bilateral contri-
butions, together with the balance of the Indus Fhnd and the Bank contribu-
tion, are insufficient to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project.
Pakistan has agreed to provide to the Fund all rupees required to finance



- 9 -
the local currency costs, and in view of the priority given to this project
there is little doubt that Pakistan will be able to meet this commitment
which will amount to not more than 3 percent of total public sector develop-
ment expenditures in those years where they are highest (or 5 percent of
rupee development expenditures) and which will come at a time whEr rupee
contributions to the Indus Fund will be tailing off.
31.      The Tarbela Development Fund Agreement, copies of which mere
distributed on May 15, 1968, incorporates in Sections 2.03 and 4.01 the
arrangements with regard to the Bank contribution of up to $25 million which
I recommend be provided by the proposed Bank loan on the terms and conditions
set out in the draft Loan Agreement.   This loan, as well as the United
States' contribution, which would take the form of a loan from the Export-
Import Bank of America, would be residual financing and would be reduced (or
if already disbursed, prepaid) pro rata to the extent that it was not
required to cover the external costs of the project.
32.      Altogether, to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project,
estimated at $492 million, including $84 million for various contingencies,
$25 million for engineering and supervision costs and $12 million for
preliminary works, the following resources might be called upon:
US $ Million
Equivalent
Indus Balance                                   324
Bilateral Loans:
Canada                                          5*
France                                         30
Italy                                          40
United Kingdom                                 2h*
Residual Financing:
U.S. (Export-Import Bank Loan)                 50
World Bank                                     25
$ 498
* Tied loans
33.      These resources would be a little more than sufficient, nominally,
to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project including provision for
contingencies.   Part of the bilateral aid would be tied to procurement in
the country concerned, and thus some of it may not be usable, but present
estimates support a conclusion that very nearly all this aid will be usable.
The contractor is required to provide evidence of expenditures in countries
which have provided tied financial assistance, so as to permit utilization of
such assistance, but is not obliged to make purchases in such countries.



- 10 -
Present estimates by the main contractor of foreign exchange expenditures are
as follows:
US $ Million
Equivalent
Canada
France                                       80
Germany                                      32
Italy                                       104
Pakistan                                     11
United Kingdom                               21
United States                                78
Yugoslavia                                    3
Unspecified                                  32
361
34.       Expenditures in some of these countries will probably be increased
when sub-contracts are awarded for provisional items included in the main
contract price (these account for $32 million in unspecified currencies in
the above table), and when associated works under separate contracts are
awarded.   In addition, some of the bilateral aid will be usable to finance
part of the costs of engineering services and supervision.   In any case
the additional contributions from France and Italy referred to in paragraph
30 could be invoked if the provision for contingencies should prove to be
inadequate.
35.       The disbursement arrangements provided for in the Tarbela Develop-
ment Fund Agreement envisage that funds required for the project will be
provided in the following way: rupee funds will be provided as needed by
Pakistan on the basis of calls to be made by the Bank as Administrator half-
yearly.   To meet non-rupee costs, the tied aid from Canada, the United
Kingdom and the United States mill be made available by these countries as
evidence of expenditures in these countries on the project is provided to
them by the Administrator.  The balance of funds required to meet estimated
expenditures in successive six month periods will be provided by calling for
payments of untied aid. The first $100 million of untied aid will be
provided by transfer from the Indus Fund.   The next $140 million will be
provided, by pro rata six monthly instalments, by further transfers from the
Indus Fund, totalling another $70 million and contributions from France and
Italy, totalling $30 million equivalent and $h0 million equivalent respec-
tively.   Further funds sill then be transferred from the Indus Fund until
the Fund is exhausted, and thereafter (if needed) disbursements from the
Bank loan will begin.   It is not expected that disbursements from the Bank
loan, if required, will occur before 1975.



- 1).-
PART VI - LEGML INSTRUMENR"S AND AiJTEORITY
36.       The draft Loan Agreement betw- -n the  slamnLc Republic of Pakistan
and the Bank and the Report of the Comx1ttee  ro-vided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
37.       Under Section 2.05 of the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement, the
Bank has agreed that its contribution to the Tarbela Fund will be in the
form of a loan upon terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Fund
Agreement, to be agreed between Pakistan and the Bank.
38.       The draft Loan Agreement follows closely the pattern of the Loan
Agreement for Loan 266-PAK. Particular attention is drawn to the following:
(a) Since the Bank loan is intended to be residual untied
financing and the balance of the Indus Fund will provide
a substantial amount of the required untied financing
for the first years of construction, it cannot yet be
foreseen with reasonable certainty whether or not and
when the Bank loan will be required. The draft Agreement,
therefore, provides that the commitment charge on the
full amount of the loan will start accruing only when a
first call is made by the Administrator of the Fund on
the Bank loan and that the rate of interest on the full
amount of the loan will be fixed at that time in accord-
ance with the Bank lending rate then prevailing (Sections
2.04 and 2.05).
(b) In accordance with the arrangements contained in the Fund
Agreement, provision is made in the draft Loan Agreement
for cancellation or prepayment on behalf of Pakistan,
without premium, of portions of the loan if the Administrator
of the Fund at a later date determines that such portions
are not needed by the Fund (Section 2.08).
PART VII - THE ECCNOMY
39.       The last Report on the economic position and prospects of Pakistan
(AS-136a) was circulated on April 22, 1968. Pakistan's economic performance
has been satisfactory, although further improvements are desirable, particu-
larly in the field of foreign trade and exchange pnlieies an4 in
increasing national savings. Prospects are for a 25 percent shortfall in
development expenditures during the Third Five-Year Plan (1965/66 - 1969/70),
but due to a massive drive in the field of agriculture, and a change in
industrial strategy, physical output targets for 1969/70 may be reached in
many cases. In particular the original target for wheat production has
already been exceeded in 1967/68.



- 12 -
h0.       The Pakistan Consortium which met on Nay 21, 1968, recorded
general satisfaction with Pakistan's economic growth and with her
development policy, particularly the revised agricultural program.
Concern was expressed at the rapidly rising external debt service ratio,
which is likely to exceed 20 percent in a few years.   The need to
strive towards a soft blend of 80 to 20 in future assistance to Pakistan
was recognized, and the Bank was charged to initiate a study on practical
ways of improving the terms on which aid has so far been made available.
At the meeting, the Pakistan representative indicated that the Govern-
ment would take steps along the lines recommended in the Bank Report,
both in the field of exchange policy and taxation.
41.       The Tarbela Dam will be an integral part of the Fourth Five-Year
Plan starting in 1970.  As indicated in paragraph 30, no problem is
expected to arise in the availability of adequate local currency financing.
Pakistan is considered creditworthy for the Bank lending proposed.
PART VIII - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
42.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IX - RECOMENDATION
43.       I recommend that the Executive Directors:
(i) approve the extension to December 31, 1975 of the
Closing Date for Loan 266-PAK and the extension to
October 1, 1970 of the terminal date for withdrawal
from the Loan Account for Loan 266-PAK of the
amount of said loan allocated to interest and other
charges on the loan; and
(ii) adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO
Approval of Loan to Islamic Republic of Pakistan in an
amount equivalent to U.S.$25,000,000.



- 13 -
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million United States dollars
(U.S.$25,000,000), to mature on and prior to September
1, 1993, to bear interest at a rate to be determined as
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Tarbela Project)
betmeen the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank,
which has been presented to this meeting, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance mith the terms and conditions set forth in
the said form of Loan Agreement.
Attachments                                           Robert S. McNamara
President
June 18, 1968



