RESTRICTED
JI  LJ 16                             Report No. p-590
This report was prepared for use within' the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON T HE
PROPOSED TARBELA DEVELOPMENT FUND AGREEMENT
PAKISTAN
March 29, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
REPORT AND RECOM1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED
TARBELA DEVELOPMENT FUND AGREEMENT
PART I - BACKGROUND
1.         The Indus Waters Treaty 1960, signed on September 19, 1960,
marked the end of a long-standing and critical dispute between India and
Pakistan regarding the use of the waters of the Indus River and its main
tributaries.   Under the Treaty, which was concluded after several years
of negotiation in which the Bank played a considerable role, Pakistan
will have the use of the waters of the Indus and of its two western
tributaries, the Jhelum and Chenab, while the waters of the three eastern
tributaries, the Ravi, Beas and Sutlej, will be allocated to India. This
allocation of waters necessitated the construction of works to transfer
water from the Indus, Jhelum and Chenab to meet irrigation requirements in
Pakistan hitherto met from the three eastern tributaries.    The effect of
the transfer will be to release eventually the entire flow of the
eastern tributaries for irrigation development in India.   The system of
canals and reservoirs to be constructed is also to provide substantial
irrigation development and to develop important hydro-electric potential
in Pakistan.
2.         In order to provide funds for this undertaking, an agreement
known as "The Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement, 1960" was executed
simultaneously with the signing of the Indus Waters Treaty, which estab-
lished an Indus Basin Development Fund (the Indus Fund) with commitments to
contribute to the Fund the equivalent at that time of $895 million. The
Bank agreed to act as Administrator.   The parties to the Indus Basin
Development Fund Agreement were Australia, Canada, Germany, New Zealand,
Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Bank.    The amount
committed included the equivalent of £62,C60,000 to be provided by India
under the Indus Waters Treaty2:/, as well as a contribution from the Bank
amounting to $80 million equivalent,/.  The funds provided were estimated
at that time to be sufficient to cover the total cost, both foreign
exchange and local expenditures, of the program of works to be constructed
in Pakistan.
1/  Of which £7,880,CCC has so far been set aside in a Special Reserve to
meet payments by Pakistan to India, should the transition period
provided for in the Indus Waters Treaty 196C be extended.
2/  Loan No. 266-PAK of September 19, 1960.   The amount of the loan was
$90 million equivalent, as $10 million was allocated to cover interest
and other charges during construction.



3.         It became apparent when some civil works contracts had been
awarded, however, that the funds committed would be insufficient to
complete the program of works contemplated in the Indus Basin Development
Fund Agreement, which originally included the construction of two large
dams and related works, namely one on the Jhelum (Mangla) and the other
on the Indus River.   Subsequently an additional amount equivalent at that
time to $315 million was made available under the Indus Basin Development
Fund (Supplemental) Agreement of l964, by the same parties to the 196C
Agreement, to cover the balance of the foreign exchange cost of the -orks.
The Bank's contribution took the form of an IDA Credit (No. 6C-PAK of
July 21, 1954) amounting to $58,54c,ooG equivalent.    The Supplemental
Agreement of 1964 incorporated arrangements which I negotiated with
President Ayub in November 1963, whereby Pakistan undertook to meet the
full rupee cost of completing the works.
Under the terms of the Supplemental Agreement of 1964, first
priority was to be given to the financing of the works included in the
original program other than the dam on the Indus River, tubewells and
drainage works.   But the financing plan adopted at that time was calculateci
so that a foreign exchange balance would be available for the Tarbela
Project, or some other water or power project in West Pakistan.    Provi-
sion was made for a study of the water and power resources of Wiest
Pakistan to be carried out by the Bank.    This study was to be carried out
in two parts.   Its first objective was the completion of a report
covering the technical feasibility, construction cost and economic return
of a dam on the Indus at Tarbela.    The second part was to constitute a
comprehensive study of West Pakistan's water and power sectors to provide
the Government with a basis for development planning in these sectors
within the context of the successive Five Year Plans.    The Supplemental
Agreement of 1964 further provided that any balance of foreign exchange
available to the Indus Fund would be used to meet the foreign exchange
costs of the Tarbela Project if, on the basis of the study, Pakistan and
the Bank agreed that the Tarbela Project was justified.
5.         The study referred to in the preceding paragraph was carried
out by several firms of consulting engineers and a group of Bank staff
directed by Dr. P. Lieftinck.   The first part of the study was completed
in February 1965 and arrived at the following conclusions:
(a) The Tarbela Project as presently envisaged is
technically feasible.
(b)  The financial requirements for construction would
amount to about $9CO million equivalent (including
about $56C million equivalent in foreign exchange),
including power installations, but excluding
Pakistan duties and taxes.
(c) The economic return on the project from agriculture
and power benefits would be about 12 percent.



- 3 -
6.         The second part of the study which was completed at the end
of July 1967 endorsed the high priority given to the Tarbela Project by
Pakistan and confirmed that the project was not only technically feasible
but also economically justified as part of a comprehensive development
program. Copies of the study, which covers wider ground than the usual
appraisal report, were circulated to the Executive Directors on August 31,
1967 (R 67-135). For ease of reference an extract from Volume I of the
study, summarizing the benefits of the Tarbela Project, is attached as Annex
1. A more detailed consideration of the issues is to be found in Chapter
VII of Volume I and in Volume III of the study on the Program for the
Development of Surface Water Storage.
7.         Meanwhile, progress on the Indus Basin vorks proceeded satis-
factorily, making it possible to forecast that a substantial balance -would
be available in the Indus Fund to be used for Tarbela, in accordance with
the provisions of the 1964 Supplemental Agreement. Consequently, at a
meeting with President Ayub in London on June 26, 1965, I agreed that the
Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Fund, -would release funds to meet the
foreign exchange costs of certain further preliminary works at Tarbela.
Agreement on these works was reached and the amount set aside for this
purpose was fixed at $13 million. It was also agreed that the financing
plan for the Tarbela Project would not be considered until after the period
of greatest risk to Mangla Dam, following the diversion of the Jhelum River,
had passed, so that the Indus Fund balance could be estimated with greater
confidence. By September 1966 the main dam had been raised to a safe level
and the monsoon flood of 1966 had subsided. The Pakistan Government then
requested the Bank to undertake the formulation of a firm financing plan
for the construction of the Tarbela Dam and also requested that the Bank
act as Administrator of a fund for the Tarbela Project when financial
arrangements have been completed, along the lines of the arrangements set
up for the Indus Basin works. These developments were reported to Executive
Directors in a statement circulated on March 2h, 1967 (Sec M67-95).
8.         Discussions subsequently took place on various occasions within
the framework of the Pakistan Consortium. In October 1966 the Bank
circulated to the Consortium members a proposed financing plan based on a
project excluding financial commitment for the power units for which
Pakistan would make separate financing arrangements. On this basis the
total costs of the Tarbela Dam was estimated at about $815 million
equivalent, the foreign exchange component being the equivalent of about
$h90 million. At that time, the members of the Consortium were not
prepared to offer financial assistance on an untied basis. At the Consor-
tium meeting held in May 1967, however, some members expressed willingness
to consider allocating part of their Consortium assistance for Tarbela if
the project had sufficient priority in Pakistan's development plan.
Meanwhile, the Pakistan authorities had proceeded with preparations to
award a contract for the civil engineering works. In September 1966 adver-
tisements were placed in the international press inviting contractors to
apply for prequalification. Forty-three firms submitted particulars and
from these, with the agreement of the Bank, four consortia, each



comprising several firms, were prequalified.    Tender documents were
issued to the prequalified consortia on March 23, 1967, but no date was
given in the documents for the return of tenders.
9.         Subsequently, at meetings held at the Bank at the end of
July 1967, sufficient offers of loans to assist in financing the project
were made to justify fixing a date (November 30, 1967) for the opening
of bids for the main civil works contract.    As several offers of bilateraL
aid were made on a tied basis, it had been necessary to examine the
practical prospects for the utilization of these sums within the frame-
work of full international competition among contractors, and full freedom
of the successful contractor to purchase his imported supplies in the
cheapest market.   It was estimated that the amount of these bilateral
offers which could be used would be something like $lc5 million.    Taking
into account the estimated balance of the Indus Fund, there remained a
residual foreign exchange requirement of about $75 million to be filled.
The President of the U.S. Export-Import Bank and I agreed to recommend to
our respective Boards of Directors loans in amounts of up to $5C million
and $25 million respectively to fill this residual gap to the extent
required.   Executive Directors were informed accordingly on August 10,
1967 (Sec M67-218).
1C.        Bids for the main civil works were opened in Lahore on
November 30, 1967.   Following the evaluation of the tenders, the Govern-
ment of Pakistan and the West Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the government agency entrusted with the carrying out
of the Indus Basin works and of the Tarbela Project, recommended that the
award be made to a consortium of Italian and French firms led by the
Italian firm Impregilo of Milan, Italy.    A letter of intent to award the
main civil works contract, conditional upon the coming into force of the
Tarbela Development Fund Agreement, will now be sent by WAPDA to Impregilo.
If the Fund Agreement is approved, the contract could be signed early in
April, well ahead of the expiration date, May 28, 1968, of the validity
of the bids.
11.        At meetings held in Paris on March 5 and 6, 1968, agreement in
principle was reached on the substantive terms of the Tarbela Development
Fund Agreement.   The financing plan for the project was firmed up
shortly thereafter.
PART II - THE PROJECT
12.        The considerations which have led to the choice of the Tarbela
site and the features of the project have been described in the study of
the Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan referred to in paragraph
6.   The project, as presently conceived, consists of an earth and rock-
fill dam across the Indus River, about 6 miles downstream from Tarbela
Village, some 40 miles northwest of Rawalpindi.    The dam, 485 feet high



and about 9,000 feet long at its crest, will be flaaLked by two auxiliary
embankments on the left abutment.   Altogether, tle three embankments
will contain about 180 million cubic yards of fil'l materials.  With a
crest elevation of 1,565 feet, the embankments are designed to impound
11.1 M4AF of water to a normal operating level of 1,550 feet.  The
designed maximum drawdown level is 1,300 feet which would provide initially
9.3 MAF of live storage.
13.        Two spillways with a combined discharge capacity of 1,670,C0O
cusecs will be provided at the left abutment to handle a flood inflow of
2,127,CO cusecs, with a rise of 6.8 feet in the water level of the
reservoir above the normal operating elevation.
14.        Four concrete-lined tunnels, each 15 feet in diameter at the
upstream end, are planned in the right abutment to divert the flow of the
river during construction.   Each tunnel will be equipped with emergency
closure gates about halfway along its length.   Downstream of the gate
chambers, all tunnels will be steel-lined.   Three tunnels will be designed
to serve subsequently as power intakes and be equipped in such a way that
each will be able to supply four generating ulnits.  The fourth tunnel is
designed as a permanent irrigation water release outlet.
15.        The design envisages that the Tarbela power plant,when completed,
will have 12 generating units each rated at 175 M4W.  The present project
includes a powerhouse structure to accommodate four such generating units,
and the transport and installation of such units with related equipment.
The Agreement provides, Section 7.01(d), for Pakistan to take action
satisfactory to the Bank for the procurement of these units and related
equipment so that the carrying out of the project is not impeded.
16.        The project is expected to be completed by April 1976.
PART III - FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
17.        The revised cost estimates of the project, based on the success-
ful tender, amount to $827.5 million equivalent, including a foreign
exchange component equivalent to $492 million.   A more detailed breakdown
of this estimate is attached as Annex 2.   Although the proportions of the
components of the estimate have changed, the estimated foreign exchange
requirements remain very close to the amount arrived at in the study of the
Water and Power Resources of West Pakistan (Volume III, page 109).   In
the main, an increase in the foreign exchange component of the main civil
works contract has been offset by a reduction in the provision for contin-
gencies which now can be accepted.
18.        The costs of the works would be met from a fund to be estab-
lished by the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement, to which Pakistan, the
other participating governments and the Bank would be parties.   The
Tarbela Development Fund, which would be held in trust and administered by



- 6 -
the Bank, would receive contributions from the parties as well as the
transfer from the Indus Basin Development Fund of the foreign exchange
balance available in excess of the foreign exchange costs of the Indus
Basin works.   With these works now well advanced and, in particular,
with the Mangla Dam virtually complete, estimates of this balance are now
reasonably firm and amount to about $324 million equivalent.    This
assumes, as now seems likely, that it will not be necessary to make pay-
ments from the Special Reserve referred to in footnote 1 on page 1.
19.      In addition, subject to such parliamentary or congressional action
as may be required in each case, the following promises of bilateral aid
have been made:
Form of
Country               Amount              Contribution   U.S. Equivalent
Canada             Can$5,CCO,00C           Tied loan       $ L,625,000
France             F 150,OOC,000           Untied loan     $30,383,0o0
Italy              Lit 25,0C,o0oC,000      Untied loan     $4C,OOC,000
United Kingdom     £10C000,00C             Tied loan       $2h,000,000
United States      $50,000,OCO             Tied loan       $50,000,000
France and Italy have also expressed willingness to make a supplementary
contribution of up to F 50,00C,000 (about $10 million equivalent) and up
to Lit 6,25C,000,COC ($10 million equivalent) respectively, if at a later
stage it is established that the foreign exchange funds from the bilateral
contributions, together with the balance of the Indus Fund and the Bank
contribution, are insufficient to meet the foreign exchange costs of the
project.   Pakistan has agreed to provide to the Fund all rupees required
to finance the local currency costs of the project.    Germany is considerin-
whether or not to make a tied contribution and may subsequently become a
party to the Agreement.
2C.      The draft Tarbela Development Fund Agreement incorporates in
Sections 2.03 and 4.01 the arrangements with regard to a Bank loan of
$25 million referred to in paragraph 9.    This loan, as well as the United
States' contribution, which would take the form of a loan from the Export-
Import Bank of America, would be regarded as residual financing and would
be reduced (or if already disbursed, prepaid) pro rata to the extent that
there is a reduction in the need for residual financing to finance the
external costs of the project.    Recommendations with respect to the terms
and conditions of the proposed Bank loan will be made shortly to the
Executive Directors. Recommendations will also be made with respect to
the extension of the Closing Date of the Bank Loan, No. 266-PAK, to take
into account the longer period of disbursement resulting from the decision
to use the balance of the Indus Fund to help finance the Tarbela Project.



- 7 -
21.       Altogether, to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project,
estimated at $492 million, including $84 million for various contingencies,
$25 million for engineering and supervision costs and $12 million for
preliminary works, the following resources might be called upon:
US $ Million
Equivalent
Indus Balance                              32)
Bilateral Loans:
Canada                                     5k
France                                    30
Italy                                    hQ
United Kingdom                            24*
Residual Financing:
U.S. (Export-Import Bank Loan)            50C
World Bank                                25
$ 498
Tied loans
22.       These resources would be a little more than sufficient, nominally,
to meet the foreign exchange costs of the project including provision for
contingencies.   Part of the bilateral aid would be tied to procurement in
the country concerned, and thus some of it may not be usable, but present
estimates support a conclusion that very nearly all this aid will be usable.
The successful contractor will be required to provide evidence of expendi-
tures in countries which have provided tied financial assistance, so as to
permit utilization of such assistance, but will not be obliged to make
purchases in such countries.   On the basis of information provided by the
successful tenderer, present estimates of expenditures by the contractor
outside Pakistan are as follows:
US $ Million
Equivalent
Canada
France                                      80
Germany                                     41
Italy                                     10C
United Kingdom                              21
United States                               80
Yugoslavia                                   3
Unspecified                                 32
$ 361
23.       Expenditures in some of these countries will probably be increased
when sub-contracts are awarded for provisional items included in the main
contract price (these account for $32 million in unspecified currencies in
the above table), and when associated works under separate contracts are
awarded. Some of the bilateral aid will be usable to finance part of the
costs of engineering services and supervision.



- 8 -
24.       The Bank has reached the conclusion that the resources available
are likely to be sufficient to meet the foreign exchange costs of the pro-
ject. The willingness of France and Italy to make the additional contribu-
tions referred to in paragraph 19 will be of assistance should the provision
for contingencies prove to be insufficient.
25.       Under the proposed arrangements, the Bank would act in various
capacities. First, the Bank would act as Administrator of the new Tarbela
Fund; second, as Administrator of the existing Indus Fund; and third, as
a contributor to both the Indus Fund and the Tarbela Fund. As Administrator
of the Tarbela Fund, the Bank would receive contributions to the Tarbela
Fund including transfers from the Indus Fund, hold the assets of the Fund
in trust and make disbursements as far as possible in accordance with the
Bank's usual procedures. Contributions to the Tarbela Fund would be called
on a semi-annual basis according to procedures similar to those followed
so far for the Indus Fund. The balance of the Indus Fund would be used as
working capital, contributions of tied aid being paid to the Tarbela Fund
on a reimbursement basis as evidence of expenditures in the countries
concerned is provided.
26.       In agreeing to act as Administrator, the Bank would in effect,
as was the case for the Indus Basin Works, be assuming responsibility for
the general supervision of the project, in both its technical and financial
aspects, on behalf of the parties to the Tarbela Development Fund Agreement.
To assist it in fulfilling its task as Administrator, the Bank proposes to
engage the services of experienced consultants. The Bank would be entitled
to reimburse itself out of the Fund for these and other expenses incurred
solely because of its services as Administrator.
PART IV - THE ECONOiMY
27.       The last report on the economic position and prospects of
Pakistan is dated April 19, 1967. An economic mission visited Pakistan
in January/February 1968 and is preparing its report.
28.       Pakistan is in the third year of the Third Five Year Plan,
which suffered an initial setback in 1965 due to armed hostilities with
India, a pause in foreign assistance, and a drought which lasted through
1965/66 and 1966/67. In spite of a growth rate in agricultural produc-
tion of only 1.4% per annum in the first two years, the non-agricultural
sectors of the economy have grown close to the planned target rate of
about 8% per annum. Manufacturing production was depressed in the first
year but slowly recovered in the second.   Total growth of GNP was 4.7%
per annum compared with the Plan target of 6.5%. Substantial improvement
can be expected during the current year with major advances in foodgrain
production and a continued recovery of manufacturing industry, resulting
in an overall GNP growth rate in 1967/68 in the neighbourhood of 7%.



29.        The major element in this is the achievement of a record wheat
crop of about 5.h million tons which is equal to the original Plan target
for 1969/70.   This success is attributed mainly to improved inputs, such
as water, fertilizer and new Mexican seed, but also to adequate rainfall.
Rice production in East Pakistan is expected to be 10.4 million tons
which is about the same as the previous record crop obtained in 1964/65.
30.        Plan investments in the public sector which had declined in
the first year to Rs. 3.h billion are expected to reach Rs. 5.0 billion in
1967/68.   Gross domestic investment is 17% of GNP this year, which is a
substantial recovery from the low of 13.5% in 1965/66.   Domestic savings
in the same period increased from 9% to 12% of GNP. For the Third Five
Year Plan as a whole, there is likely to be a shortfall in investment by
about 2C% from the target of Rs. 52 billion.   However, the proportion of
the domestic contribution to public sector Plan outlays may be better than
the 55% envisaged in the Plan, in the light of the shortfall that had
occurred in foreign resources.   To maintain the development program
despite the increase in defense expenditures, the Government has so far
carried out a program of additional taxation which is likely to yield
nearly Rs. 7 billion over the period of the Plan compared with an original
target of Rs. 3 billion.   Defense outlays have been scaled down by about
20% from the 1965/66 level of Rs. 2.85 billion and currently amount to
3.5% of GNP.
31.        Monetary expansion had been considerable up to December 1966,
but was brought under control during 1967, through fiscal restraint as well
as restrictive credit policy.   In conjunction with the food shortages,
inflationary pressure had pushed up the wholesale index by 17% during
calendar year 1966, but a 3% decline occurred in the following year, during
which money supply contracted by about 2% despite resumption of central
bank lending to the Government in the last quarter.    Prices of imported
goods continued to be high owing to the tight balance of payments position.
Foreign exchange reserves which had dropped by about $108 million last
year continued to be low, and the same is true for inventories of imported
industrial raw materials.
32.        The Pakistan Consortium which met in May 1967 recorded general
satisfaction with the way Pakistan had met her economic problems, but
pointed out the need to adjust her system of effective exchange rates for
imports, and questioned the feasibility of implementing the Rs. 30 billion
public sector program for the Plan.   The Government has taken action
since then on the first point.
33.        In order to permit a resumption of the earlier import liberaliza-
tion program, in the face of a lower than expected level of non-project
assistance, and additional demands on foreign exchange resources by defense
and foodgrain imports, the Government has taken new steps for an upward
adjustment in the effective rate of exchange.   In November 1967 additional
surcharges of 10% ad valorem were imposed on all imports other than food-
grains and agricultural inputs.   Further, in the January/July 1968 import



- 1C -
policy, one-fifth of private industrial imports were put on a cash-cum-
bonus list requiring deposit of bonus vouchers for 50% of the value, and
additional surcharges were levied on imports under the free list which
now covers about one-half of private imports.   As a consequence, the major
part of industrial imports are now priced into the economy at an effec-
tive rate of exchange about 80% above par.   These measures are in line
with earlier Bank recommendations, but complete removal of administrative
controls will not be feasible for some time because resources are not
available that would cover the likely demand for inventory replenishment
in addition to current requirements.
34.       An inter-ministerial committee in 1967 considered the further
mobilization of domestic resources and it was decided to formulate the
public sector annual development program in future in the context of a
comprehensive Annual Plan, in order to achieve a better coordination of
fiscal and other policies with the needs of the private sector.    In this
context ceilings will be established for Government borrowing from the
banking system, and public development expenditures will be kept within
levels below Plan targets.
35.       The average terms of foreign assistance have hardened in recent
years, in part because the Government permitted the shortfall in Consortium
assistance to be made up, to a certain degree, by export credits from
other sources.   However, having considered the consequences of continued
reliance on hard-term lending on the future balance of payments, the
Government is now taking a much more selective approach and has decided to
reduce the absolute level of external borrowing if this is necessary to
keep the future debt service ratio within the order of 2C-25% of export
receipts.   In consequence, more offers have recently been received for
Eastern European credits than were accepted, and certain supplierst credits
from Consortium members are held over for commitment pending negotiations
for better terms.   Pakistan's debt ratio at present is 17%, and with
expected new commitments up to July 1968 will reach just about 20% by 1970,
with a gradual decline thereafter.
36.       Pakistan is now aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by 1970
and is giving top priority to rice and wheat production.    This target is
considered not unrealistic, and together with plans to become self-
sufficient in fertilizer this will improve the balance of payments position
by the early 1970's.   However, Pakistan will continue to be dependent on
a substantial volume of foreign assistance for a number of years, despite
her success in promoting the growth of her exports which are now expected
to increase by nearly 8% a year through the Third Plan period.
Pakistan's population control program for the Third Plan envisaged a reduc-
tion in the birth rate from 50 to 40 per thousand by 1967/68.    Considerable
effort has gone into this program and the Government expects it to be
successfully implemented.



- 11 -
37.        So far, the Indus Basin works have been treated as investments
outside of the Five Year Plan because the major part of these works was
considered to be for replacement of a natural resource - river water -
the access to which is to be relinquished, rather than for the country's,
further economic development.   In the case of the Tarbela Dam, this
description does not apply, and it will therefore be an integral part of
the Fourth Plan after 1970.   During the next two fiscal years, however,
the domestic currency finance for Tarbela will be an addition to Plan
outlays.   Accruals of counterpart funds from PL 480 sales are expected to
decline substantially during this period, so that a dwindling portion will
be available for the development program after meeting the requirements of
Tarbela.   But these requirements will not be more than 3% of public
sector expenditures for the Plan (or 5% of Plan expenditures in domestic
currency) in those years when they are peaking, and no problem about the
availability of adequate rupee funds is anticipated.
38.        To summarize: Pakistan's economic performance continues to be
satisfactory.   Agriculture is now receiving the highest priority, and
results from the measures taken are in sight for the next few years which
should stimulate overall economic growth to a rate higher than that
achieved during the last several years.   The Government is aware of the
need to promote further growth in exchange earnings, and is beginning to
take steps which should contain Pakistan's future external debt service
burden wfithin tolerable limits.  In spite of an anticipated debt service
ratio of 20% within a few years, Pakistan can still afford a moderate
portion of its total external borrowing to be at conventional terms.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT
39.        Attached as Annex 3 is a copy of the draft Tarbela Development
Fund Agreement. This draft generally follows the pattern of the Indus
Basin Development Fund Agreement, 1960. Particular attention is drawn to
the following features;
(a) The Parties are restricted to those governments making
commitments to contribute to the Tarbela Fund, including Pakistan as the
provider of rupee funds, and the Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Fund,
as Administrator of the Tarbela Fund as well as a contributor.   As the
balance of the Indus Fund would be carried over to the Tarbela Fund, the
draft Agreement provides for the Indus Parties to receive progress reports
and to be consulted in certain circumstances (Sections 8.01 and 9.02).
(b) Following the pattern of the Indus Agreements, the draft
Agreement determines the extent of the commitment of each contributing
party to provide funds for the project, leaving for separate negotiation
and agreement between the country concerned and Pakistan the terms and
conditions of the respective loans.   Section 2.05 explicitly recognizes
that the use of tied contributions would be limited to expenditures in the
countries concerned.



- 12 -
(c) The Bank contribution of $25 million would be in the
form of a loan on terms and conditions to be agreed between Pakistan and
the Bank (Sections 2.03 and 2.05).
(d) The Agreement provides that in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Indus Basin Development (Supplemental) Agreement of 1964,
the Indus Fund balance will be the prime source of funds for the project;
that tied aid will be disbursed by the contributors to the Tarbela Fund as
evidence is provided of expenditures in the countries concerned, that any
other untied aid will be disbursed, after an initial lag, proportionally
with disbursements from the Indus balance; and that the proposed Bank
loan, as a reserve source of untied aid, would norrnally be disbursed after
the other untied contributions.
(e) Should amounts remain available after termination of the
project and after the United States and the Bank contributions had been
repaid, Section 9.C4 provides that, unless the parties otherwise agree,
these amounts would be applied to prepay the non-rupee contributions made
to the Tarbela Fund by the parties to the Agreement on a pro rata basis.
(f)  Pursuant to Section 14.C2, the Tarbela Development Fund
Agreement would become effective after having been signed and accepted by
all parties named in the preamble.
PART V - RECOMENDATION
4C.        A recommendation with regard to the proposed Bank loan repre-
senting the Bank contribution to the Tarbela Fund will be submitted to the
Executive Directors shortly. In the meantime, I recommend that the
Executive Directors adopt the following resolution:
RESOLIJTION NO.
Tarbela Development Fund
RESOLVED:
THAT the Executive Directors authorize the signature, in
the name and on behalf of the Bank, of the Tarbela Development
Fund Agreement substantially in the form of the draft of said
Agreement presented to this meeting.
Attachments                                          George D. Woods
President
March 29, 1968



FRLE CO-PY
ANNEX 1
Extract from
STUDY OF THE WATER AND POWER RESOURCES OF WEST PAKISTAN
Volume 1 of the General Report
The Tarbela Dam
The centerpiece of the programs put forward by the Bank Group is
the Tarbela Dam on the Indus. Completion of this dam by 1975/76 is a
crucial element in the strategy outlined in this report for meeting West
Pakistan's need for additional supplies of irrigation water and electric
power. The detailed programs proposed have been built on the assumption
that the dam would be completed on schedule, and the importance of the
project is so great that this expectation has influenced and conditioned
almost all the other proposals made regarding future development. The
Tarbela Dam is estimated to cost the equivalent of about $775 million, ex-
cluding duties, taxes and interest during construction and all the costs
of power plant and its housing. The main purpose of the dam would be to
store water from the summer flood season, when Indus discharges are greatly
in excess of the amount that could be used for irrigation purposes even
with an expanded canal system, to the rabi (winter) season when the main
food crops are grown but natural river flows are low and variable and
irrigation deliveries consequently unreliable. At its initial capacity,
the Tarbela Reservoir will store sufficient water to increase rabi river
flows on the Indus in a mean year by about one-third and those in a dry
year by about one-half.
The Tarbela Dam is such a strategic element in the integrated
programs proposed that it is extremely difficult to quantify the contri-
bution which it makes itself to increased production. Nevertheless the
Bank Group tried to measure this contribution and it believes that, to the
extent it is measurable, a reasonable conservative range for the rate of
return would be about 9-13 percent. The Bank Group also attempted to weigh
the costs that would be involved in a 10-year delay of Tarbela by comparing
the costs of the recommended program with the costs of a hypothetical
alternative making up for the 10-year lack of Tarbela water by the use of
groundwater mining techniques that have potential in Pakistan but have
not yet been tested there; the alternative program worked out $50 million
more expensive in terms of the present worth of economic costs and it
could not provide a degree of security comparable with that provided by
a program including Tarbela in 1975. However this alternative program
was the cheapest of several alternatives considered; it involved interim
developments in power and irrigation significantly different from those
that would be best in a program built around Tarbela. Thus unforeseen
delay in the execution of Tarbela, even of shorter duration than 10
years, would likely result in greater losses than those stated above in
financial terms and in terms of increased risk, because it would mean
that no integrated program could be firmly chosen and that other parts
of the recommended program, which are undertaken, would be out of step.



- 2 -
The Bank Group's estimates suggest that about three-quarters
of the benefits of Tarbela would accrue to agriculture. System analyses
indicate that deliveries direct from Tarbela storage would account for
more than 10 percent of total rabi supplies of irrigation 'water in 1985
and 25 percent of the water delivered to farmers addlitional to that which
they now receive in rabi season. The availability of additional surface
'water in rabi season is particularly important to further development in
those areas which are not underlain by fresh groundwater -- about 40
percent of the Punjab and 80 percent of the Sind. Additional rabi canal
supplies are a sine qua non of further irrigation development in areas
-with the most saline groundwater (about 11 million acres or 35 percent
of the canal irrigated area) and, in the 15 percent of canal irrigated
area underlain by groundwater of intermediate salinity, additional rabi
canal supplies can be mixed with pumped groundwater and can thus have a
multiplied effect on total rabi water supplies in such areas. Neverthe-
less the total addition to rabi canal deliveries that would come from
Tarbela Reservoir is only one part of the benefit that the project would
confer on agriculture. Existence of a large reservoir on the Indus will
make it possible to regulate to a significant extent the time pattern of
river discharges and hence to match canal deliveries, in combination with
supplies pumped from the groundwater aquifer, to the rather inflexible
time pattern of crop-water requirements in a way that has not been possi-
ble in the past.
About one-quarter of the total benefits of Tarbela relate to
the hydroelectric potential of the dam according to the Bank Group's
studies. The Bank Group proposes installation of 12 turbine generators,
each of nominal rating 175 mw, over the years 1975-80. With this develop-
ment of its hydroelectric potential Tarbela will contribute more than one-
quarter of the total amount of electric energy required by West Pakistan
over the decade 1975-85. By 1985, according to the Bank Group's projec-
tions, Tarbela 'will be contributing some 10 billion kwh or more than one-
third of the Province's total arnual requirements of electric energy at
that time. Under mean year flow conditions 12 turbines would be capable
of generating 12 billion kwh, and the additional 2 billion kwh, 'which
'would be produced almost entirely in the summer flood months, would be
absorbed gradually after 1985 as loads on the power system grow. In the
course of its analysis of the effects of a 10-year postponement of Tarbela
the Bank Group found that completion of Tarbela in 1975 would save some
700 trillion Btu of natural gas -- or about 10 percent of W-est Pakistan's
kno'wn usable reserves of gas -- that would otherwise have to be devoted to
generation of electric power over the decade 1975-85; such a saving is im-
portant because kno'wn gas reserves are limited and gas is required as feed-
stock for the production of badly needed fertilizer.
These figures make it clear that Tarbela will have a very large
impact on the irrigation and power systems of West Pakistan and they thus
underline the importance of careful planning in advance to make sure that
the systems in existence by 1975 are well prepared to absorb the irriga-
tion and power supplies from the dam as quickly and as effectively as possi-
ble. It is not only the scale of the project 'which emphasizes the need



- 3 -
for a very active development effort in the meantime to prepare the -way
for Tarbela. The project is also very expensive; irrigation supplies
from Tarbela have advantages of flexibility as mentioned, but they will
cost Pakistan about three times as much per acre-foot as water pumped
from the groundwater aquifer -within the limit of annual recharge by seep-
age from the surface; theoretically substantial additions to rabi water
supplies could be made at lower cost for a number of years by pumping be-
yond this level or 'mining' the ground-water aquifer in some areas, but
this technique would not serve to increase water supplies so rapidly as
surface storage, it would be less flexible, it might be hazardous, it
would be inconsistent with the optimum integrated pattern of water-
resource development and in the long run it would be more expensive.
Thus any substantial addition to rabi irrigation supplies would inevit-
ably be costly. This emphasizes the need to make sure that -water is
used to the greatest possible advantage. The time required for construc-
tion of Tarbela -- it could not be completed before 1975 -- also under-
lines the need for other immediate efforts to improve agricultural produc-
tivity. Increased production of food and fiber are required immediately,
and Tarbela will be of no help for another eight years.



ANNEX 2
PAKISTAN - TARBELA PROJECT
Revised Estimate of Project Cost
on Basis of Italian-French Consortium Tender
US$ Million Equivalent
Total       Foreign Exchange
A. Preliminary Works                              32.0               12.0
B. Construction Costs:
(i)   TJV tender (excluding
Customs Duties and
Sales Taxes)                 517.8             360.2
(ii) Associated Works under
Main Contracts                10.7              10.7
(iii) Provision for Additional
Costs:
Steel liner (extra costs)    5.3               L.5
Extra works which may be
ordered during the
contract period            13.0               9.0
(iv)  Unresolved Engineering         26.0              18.0
(v)   Provide for Claims and
Contingencies                 65.0              45.0
(vi)  Bonus                           8.4               7.6
(vii) Customs Duties, etc.          105.0               _
751.2              455.0
C. Engineering and Site Costs:
(i)  WIAPDA                           6.3
(ii)  Project Consultant             34.O              22.0
40.3               22.0
D.  Supervision                             .      4.0                3.0
827.5              192.0



-2-
Explanatory Notes
Item B (iii)
Extra works which may be ordered    On the basis of experience at Mangla
during the contract                 the extra works ordered amounted to
9% of the tender sum.
In view of the greater extent of the
exploratory works undertaken in advance
at Tarbela it is considered reasonable
to reduce this percentage to 2-1% or
$13.0 million total (F.E. $9.0 million).
Item B (iv)
Unresolved engineering              The items considered likely to involve
increased cost on the tender sum in the
light of experience and taking into ac-
count the Engineer's estimate of the
works are:
Spillway               $ 3.2 million
Grouting and Drilling    3.0
Tunnelling and Steel
Supports               12.5
Cofferdams and Silt
Problems                8.0   "
$26.7 million
This is equivalent to 5% of the con-
struction tender.
Item B (v)
Provide for claims and              Claims on previous Indus Project works
contingencies                       have amounted to t% to 5% of the
tender sums.
A percentage of 5% for clains has been
assumed for Tarbela.
A general contingency of 7½g% has been
added in accordance with normal
practice for works of this size and
duration.



FILE CGP( OP
ANNEX 3
Legal Department
CONFIDENTIAL DRAFT
(Subject to Change)
March 21, 1968
TARBELA DEVELOPMENT FUND AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated this       day of             , 1968, between
the Governments of Canada, France, Italy, Pakistan, United
Kingdom and United States, the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the Bank), and the Bank, acting as Administrater under
the Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement, 1960 (the 1960 Agreement),
as amended and supplemented by the Indus Basin Development Fund (Sup-
plemental) Agreement, l9S4 (the 1964 Agreement).
WHEREAS in the 1960 Agreement the Parties thereto agreed, on the
terms and conditions therein set forth, to make certain contributions
to the Indus Basin Development Fund;
AND WHEREAS in the 1964 Agreement the Parties to the 1960
Agreement agreed to increase their contributions to the Indus Basin
Development Fund, on the terms and conditions set forth in the 1964
Agreement;
AND WHEREAS the 1964 Agreement provided, inter alia, that after
certain costs and expenses had been provided for, "any balance of the
non-rupee assets remaining in or payable to the Fund, together with any
uncalled amounts of the non-rupee contributions provided for in the 1960



- 2 -
Agreement, as augmented by this Agreement, will be disbursed, in
accordance with procedures to be agreed between Pacistan and the
Bank, to be used by Pakistan as required to meet non-rupee costs
of the Tarbela project (if Pakistan and the Bank agree that Tarbela
is justified on the basis of the report hereinafter referred to in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement).. rl;
AND WHEREAS on the basis of the report referred to in said
Section 5.01 of the 1964 Agreement, Pakistan and the Bank have
agreed that the Tarbela project is justified and have further agreed
that the procedures hereinafter in this Agreement set forth or pro-
vided for shall govern the disbursement of any Indus Basin Development
Fund non-rupee balance;
AND WHEREA3 certain Governments, and the Bank, Parties hereto,
have agreed, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter in this Agree-
ment set forth, to add to the amounts available to meet the costs of
the Tarbela project;
AED WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to act as Administrator of the
Tarbela Development Fund hereinafter provided for;
NOW THEREFORE the Parties hereto hereby agree as follows:



- 3 -
ARTICLE I
Establishment of the Tarbela Development Fund
SECTION 1.01. There is hereby established the Tarbela Development
Fund (the Fund), constituted by the monies which shall from time to
time be transferred to it by the Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Basin
Development Fund, by the Governments named in the preamble hereto, and by
the Bank, together with any additions thereto and any other assets and
receipts of the Fund, to be held in trust and administered by the Bank
and used only for the purposes, and in accordance with the provisions,
of this Agreement.
SECTION 1.02. The Fund and its assets and accounts shall be kept
separate and apart from all other accounts and assets of the Bank and
shall be separately designated in such appropriate manner as the Bank
shall determine.
SECTION 1.03. The Bank is hereby designated as Administrator of
the Fund. The Bank agrees to act in that capacity in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Contributions to the Fund
SECTION 2.01. The Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Basin
Development Fund (the Indus Fund), undertakes to transfer from the Indus
Fund to the Fund the non-rupee amounts to be disbursed, pursuant to
the provisions of Sectiens 4,02 and 4.03 of the 1964 Agreement, to meet



the non-rupee costs of the "Tarbela project" to the extent that
amounts shall be available for such transfer (such amounts being
hereafter sometimes called the "Indus balance").
SECTION 2.02. Each of the Governments specified below hereby
undertakes, subject to such parliamentary or congressional action
as may be necessary, and subject to the terms and conditions here-
inafter set forth, to contribute to the Fund the amount specified
opposite its name below:
Canada          - Can $       5,000,000
France          - FF        150,000,000
Italy           - It.L   25,000,000,000
United Kingdom  - ; Stg      10,000,000
United States   - US $       50J°00,000
SECTIOIN 2.03. The Bank undertakes to make a contribution
of U.S. $25,000,000 equivalent in the form of the proceeds of a
loan in various non-rupee currencies to Pakistan from the Bank.
SECTION 2.o4. Pakistan undertakes to pay to the Fund all
such amounts of Pakistan rupees (rupees) determined by the Admin-
istrator, as will be required to meet the rupee costs of the
Tarbela project, as described in the Schedule to this Agreement
(the Project).
SECTION 2.05. The contribution of each of the Governments
named in Section 2.02 above shall be in the form of loans to Pakistan
(but payable to the Fund) and made directly by the Government or by



an agency or instrumentality thereof on terms and conditions, not
inconsistent with this Agreement, to be agreed between Pakistan
and the Government or agency or instrumentality concerned0 The
Bank loan shall likewise be upon terms and conditions, not inconsistent
herewith, to be agreed between Pakistan and the Bank.  It is understood
and agreed that, notwithstanding the amounts specified in said Section
2.02, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States shall not be
obligated under this Agreeneat to contribute uo the Frund any amounts
in excess of actual expenditures from the Fund for the cost of goods
(as defined in Section 5.01 below) reouLired for the Project and
procured in, or supplied from, their respective territories, as
provided in Section 3.06 below.
SECTION 2.06. Contributions provided for in Sections 2.02 and
2.03 above shall be made in the respective cur-rencies provided for
therein, or in the equivalent thereof, at the time of payT; nt to the
Fund, in such other currencies as may be agreed between the contributing
party and the Administrator. All currencies so provided shall be
freely convertible.
SECTION 2.07. The undertaking to make contributions hereunder
shall not constitute or imply any commitment by the Parties, other
than Pakistan, to make any additional or increased contributions for
the Project.



- 6 -
.ARTICLE III
Provisions regarding Payment cf Contributions
SECTIOU 3101.  It is understood and agreed that the primary
source of funds for the Project is the Indus balance and that the
Indus balance is to be treated as the basic working capital of the
Fund.
SECTION 3.02. The Administrator shall determine in advance the
estimated amounts required to be disbursed from and paid into the
Fund during each half-year period commencing April 1 and October 1,
beginning with the period ending September 30, 1968.
SECTION 3.03. In respect of the rupee portion of such estimated
disbursements, the Administrator shall, not less than 30 days before
the commencement of each such semi-annual period, notify Pakistan of
the amount to be contributed by it to the Fund in rupees during such
period. Pakistan undertakes to make the payment specified in such
notice at the time or times and in the amounts specified or provided
for therein or at such other tines during such period as shall be
agreed upon between Pakistan and the Administrator. If additional
amount of rupees are required during such period Pakistan shall make
arrangements with the Administrator to supply them.
SECTION 3.04. The Administrator shall, not less than 30 days
before the commencement of each such semi-annual period, notify the
Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Fund, of the estimated amount
required to be transferred from the Indus Fund during such period.



- 7 -
Such notice shall, in any event, be given in sufficient time to enable
the Bank, as Administrator of the Indus Fund, to give corresponding
notification to contributors to the Indus Fund. Until the aggregate
of the non-rupee amounts so notified to the Bank, as such Administrator,
shall amount of U.S. $100,000,000 equivalent, such estimated amount shall
be the difference obtained by subtracting from the non-rupee require-
ments of the Fund for such period the estimated non-rupee contributions
to and receipts of the Fund during such period from other sources.
Thereafter, and until the contribution of France shall have totaled
FF 150,000,0CO and the contribution of Italy shall have totaled
It. L 25,000,000,000, such estimated amount shall equal one-half of
such difference. Thereafter, such estimated amounts shall again equal
the entire difference until the Indus balance is exhausted. The Bank,
as Administrator of the Indus Fund, undertakes to make the payments
provided for in such notice, at the times and in the amounts provided
in such notice to it from the Administrator, or as othenrise agreed
between them, subject to the availability in the Indus Fund of funds
for such purpose.
SECTION 3.05.  (a)  WThen the non-rupee amounts notified by the
Administrator to be transferred from the Indus Fund shall aggregate the
equivalent of U.S. $100,000,000, the Administrator shall notify to
France and Italy the amount of their respective contributions to be
paid to the Fund during each half-year period. The aggregate amount
to be paid by France and Italy during each such period shall be equal to
the transfers to be made during such period from the Indus Fund and



shall be apportioned among them in the ratio of France 3: Italy 4.
Payment of the respective amounts by each Government shall be made
in the amounts and at the times specified in the Administrator's
notification, or at such other time as may be agreed between the
Government concerned and the Administrator.
(b) The Bank shall make payments to the Fund from the Bank loan
during each half-year period in amounts which shall, after the Indus
balance and the contributions of France and Italy have been exhausted,
be equal to the difference obtained pursuant to Section 3.04. The
Bank may, during any period, pay additional amounts from the Bank
loan if so requested to do by the Administrator, and shall receive
credit therefor in the next period or later periods.
SECTION 3.06. The contributions of Canada, the United Kingdom
and the United States will be Daid for semi-annual periods commencing
on April 1 and October 1 of each year. The amounts to be paid by each
in each such period shall be determined by the Administrator on the
following basis: the Administrator shall, before the beginning of
the period involved, determine the non-rupee amounts theretofore dis-
bursed for the cost of goods (as defined in Section 5.Ol below) procured
for the Project after the date of this Agreement in or from the
territories of each and not previously included in calculating amounts
to be contributed in any preceding period. The Administrator shall,
not less than 30 days before the commencement of each such semi-annual
period, notify each Government concerned of such amounts, such notification
to be accompanied by such evidence of such procurement and the expenditures



therefor as shall have been agreed betwieen the Government concerned
and the Administrator. Payment of such amount shall be made to the
Fund at the times and in the amounts specified in the notification,
or at such other times as may be agreed between the Government concerned
and the Administrator. Mothing in this Section shall prevent the
Administrator from agreeing with any such Party that the provision in
the last sentence of Section 2.05 shall not apply to the contribution
of such Party and that such contribution shall be pald in installments,
in amounts and at times agreed between such Party and the Administrator,
without the furnishing by the Administrator of such evidence of procure-
ment and expenditures.
SECTION 3.07. The Administrator may include in his estimate of
the aggregate amounts required to be paid in any period pursuant to
Sections 3.04 and 3.05 such sums as it shall consider necessary or
desirable to establish and maintain a reasonable reserve against an
excess of actual expenditures over the estimates of such expenditures.
SECTION 3.08. The Parties agree to accept the Administrator's
decisions as to estimated requirements and receipts of the Fund, and
of the reserve required, for the purposes of this Agreement. The
Administrator and any two or more of the Parties may agree upon a change,
for one or more semi-annual periods, in the amounts to be paid into the
Fund by such Parties pursuant to this Article, provided that the
aggregate amounts to be paid by them for such period or periods remain
substantially unchanged and that appropriate compensating adjustments
are made in respect of later periods.



- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Special Provisions Relating to
the United States and the Bank
SECTIONI 4.01. (a) The respective contributions of the United
States and the Bank are included only for the purpose of covering any
excess of the non-rupee costs of the Project over the amounts available
therefor from all other sources provided, however, that the contribution
of the United States shall be subject to the last sentence of Section
2.05. Consequently, if the Administrator shall at any time or times
determine that any part of those contributions will not be or would not
have been required for such purpose, it shall so notify the Parties to
this Agreement and shall, for all the purposes of this Agreement, reduce
the nominal amounts of the respective contributions of the Jnited States
and the Bank. Such reduction shall be prorated between them and shall
be acconplishedby either or both of the following methods, as determined
by the Administrator, in consultation with the United States and the Bank:
(i) by reducing amounts to be contributed, or
(ii) by prepaying from the Fund, on Pakistan's behalf, amounts
owed by Pakistan in respect of previous contributions
all in such manner that the ultimate net amounts, if any, actually
contributed by each and not prepaid from the Fund shall not exceed
the ratio of United States 2: Bank 1. Amounts required for any such
prepayment shall be treated as non-rupee costs of the Project.



- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Disbursements from Fund
SECTION 5.01. Subject to the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 8.Oh
of this Agreement, amounts in the Fund shall be used or disbursed by the
Administrator exclusively to finance the cost of equipment, supplies,
other property (but excluding any cost of acquiring land or interests in
land) and services (hereinafter called "goods") required to construct the
Project described in the Schedule to this Agreement (herein sometimes
called the "Project").  Said description may be amended by agreement be-
tween Pakistan and the Administrator for reasons of economy or sound engi-
neering practice.  The specific items to be financed from the Fund shall
from time to time be determined by agreement between Pa,kistan and the
Administrator, and may be changed from time to time by agreement between
them.
SECTION 5.02. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between Pakistan
and the Administrator, no disbursement shall be made on account of: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, or (ii) expenditures in
the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (except
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
SECTION 5.03.  Disbursements from the Fund shall be in such currencies
as the Administrator shall elect:   Provided that disbursements on account
of expenditures in rupees or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, Pakistan shall be in rupees, except as the Administrator may other-
wise agree.



- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Applications for Disbursement
SECTION 6.01. When Pakistan shall desire to receive any disburse-
ment from the Fund, Pakistan shall deliver to the Administrator a writ-
ten application in such form, and containing such statements, agreements
and documentation as the Administrator shall reasonably request in accord-
ance with the Banks usual procedures, and as may be necessary or desir-
able to enable the Administrator to furnish the information and evidence
required for the purposes of Section 3.06 and to furnish the information
and make the reports provided for in Section 8.01.
SECTION 6.02. Pakistan shall furnish to the Administrator such
documents and other evidence in support of each such application as the
Administrator shall reasonably request whether before or after the Admin-
istrator shall have permitted any withdrawal requested in the application.
SECTION 6.03.  Each application and the accompanring documents must
be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that
Pakistan is entitled to receive from the Thnd the amount applied for,
that the amount to be disbursed by the Fund is to be used only for the
purposes specified in this Agreement, that the goods on account of wehich
disbursement is requested are suitable for the Project, and that the cost
thereof is not unreasonable.



- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Undertakings of Pakistan
SECTION 7.01.  (a) Pakistan shall cause the Project to be carried
out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engi-
neering and financial practices, and shall accord appropriate priority,
satisfactory to the Administrator, to the Project.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 5.02, all goods required
for the Project shall be procured on the basis of international compe-
tition under arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator, except as
the Administrator shall otherwise agree on grounds of appropriateness,
efficiency, expedition or economy.
(c) Pakistan shall, at its own expense and promptly as needed:
(i) obtain and make available all land and interests in land required
for the carrying out or operation of the Project and (ii) make all
necessary arrangements for the evacuation    of persons living in the
Project area.
(d) Pakistan shall with due diligence and efficiency make suit-
able arrangements, satisfactory to the Administrator, for the procure-
ment of the generating units and associated mechanical and electrical
equipment referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement and shall cause
delivery thereof to be made at such time or times as shall permit, and
shall not impede, the prompt and efficient carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 7.02. Pakistan shall cause goods financed out of monies
disbursed by the Fund to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Project, except as the Administrator may otherwise agree in respect of
goods no longer required for the Project.



- 14 -
SECTION 7.03. (a) Pakistan shall cause to be furnished to the
Administrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans and specifi-
cations, cost estimates and construction schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Administrator shall from time to time request.
(b) Pakistan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records ade-
quate to identify the goods financed out of monies disbursed by the Fund,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and fi-
nancial ccndition of the agency or agencies of Pakistan responsible for
the construction of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable the Ad-
ministrator's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods used or
acquired for the Project, and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish to the Administrator all such information as the Administra-
tor shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the monies dis-
bursed by the Fund, the Project, and the operations and financial condition
of the agency or agencies of Pakistan responsible for the construction of
the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 7.04. (a) Pakistan and the Administrator shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of this Agreement will be accomplished.
To that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all such information
as it shall reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Project.



- 15 -
(b)  Pakistan and the Administrator shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters
relating to the purposes of this Agreement. Pakistan shall promptly
inform the Administrator of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
this Agreement.
SECTION 7.05. Without detracting from the obligations assumed
under this Agreement by the Central Government of Pakistan, Pakistan
may, from time to time, designate a government agency or agencies to
carry out on behalf of the Central Government such duties incidental
to the implementation of this Agreement as the Central Government may
deem appropriate.
ARTICLE VIII
The Administrator
SECTION 8.01. The Administrator shall, within 30 days after 31st
December 1968 and after each 30th June and 31st December thereafter,
send to each Party to this Agreement and to each other Party to the
1960 Agreement a report containing appropriate information with respect
to the receipts and disbursements of, and balances in, The Indus Basin
Development Fund and the Fund, the progress of the Project, and other
matters relating to the Fund, the Project and this Agreement. Within
a reasonable period after the termination of this Agreement as provided
in Section 9.03 the Administrator shall submit to each of the Parties



- 16 -
a report which shall include: (i) a full and final accounting and
(ii) detailed information regarding any reductions which have been made
in the United States and Bank contributions as provided in Section 4.01.
The Administrator Eill consult with the respective Parties from time to
time concerning the form and substance of such reports.
SECTION 8.02. The Administrator may, but shall not be required
to, deposit and invest monies held by the Fund pending disbursement
in such manner as it shall deem appropriate, on the understanding
that the Administrator will take all reasonable steps under Article
III of this Agreement to avoid building up balances in the Fund in
excess of the amounts necessary, in the Administrator's opinion, to
enable disbursements for the Project to be made as required. The
income from such deposits and investmenus shall become part of the
assets of the Fund and shall be taken into account in estimates of
receipts of the Fund.
SECTION 8.03. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes
of this Agreement to value one currency in terms of another currency,
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Administrator in
accordance with the Bank's usual procedures.
SECTION 8.o0. The Administrator shall receive no compensation
other than for expenses incurred solely because of services rendered
under this Agreement, for which it shall be entitled to reimburse it-
self out of the Fund.



- 17 -
SECTION 8.05. The Bank, in acting as Administrator, shall exer-
cise the same care in the administration and management of the Fund
and in the discharge of its other functions under this Agreement as
it exercises in respect of the administration and management of its
own affairs.
ARTICLE IS
Consultation and Termination
SECTION 9.01.  The following are hereby specified as Events for
the purposes of this Article DC:
(a) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen, which shall
make it improbable that Pakistan will be able to complete
the Project;
(b)  at any time amounts likely to be available for the Project
shall not be sufficient to complete the Project;
(c) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
urndertaking on the part of Pakistan under this Agreement.
SECTION 9.02. (a) If any of the Events specified in Section
9.01 shall have happened and in the judgment of the Administrator
shall be likely to continue, the Administrator shall promptly notify
the other Parties hereto and, in the case of an Event specified in
Section 59.01(c), may by notice to Pakistan suspend disbursements from
the Fund.
(b)  The Parties hereto shall forthwith consult with one another
concerning the measures to be taken to correct the Event or Events.



A majority of the contributing Parties, other than Pakistan, whose
contributions also constitute more than half of the aggregate non-
rupee contributions to the Fund of all such contributing Parties,
shall have the power to decide that any suspension imposed by the
Administrator pursuant to sub-section (a) of this Section 9.02 shall
be removed. The Administrator shall act in accordance with such de-
cision; pending such decision the suspension shall continue.
(c) If any such Event shall continue and a similar majority
of such contributing Parties shall decide that it is not likely to
be corrected and that the purposes of this Agreement are not likely
to be substantially fulfilled, the obligations of the Parties to make
contributions to the Fund and the obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement shall cease and this Agreement shall terminate.
(d) For the purposes of sub-sections (b) and (c) of this Sec-
tion 9.02, such contributing Parties shall be deemed to include
Australia and New Zealand, but shall not include the Bank, as Admin-
istrator of the Indus Basin Development Fund. In determining non-rupee
contributions to the Fund each of such contributing Parties shall be
deemed to have contributed to the Fund, in addition to any contributions
by it to the Fund hereunder, such proportion of the Indus balance trans-
ferred to the Fund as its contributions to the Indus Fund bore to the
total non-rupee contributions to that Fund.



- 19 -
SECTION 9.03.  Subject to t:.: provisions of Sections 9.04 and
9.05, this Agreement, unless sooner terminated pursuant to Section
9.02(c), shall terminate upon completion of the Project or upon dis-
bursement from the Fund of all amounts due to be disbursed from it
for the Project, if that happens earlier.
SECTION 9.00. If at termination of this Agreement pursuant to
Section 9.03 there shall remain in, or payable to, the Fund any non-
rupee amounts not required to meet the cost of goods or for reduction
of the United States and Bank contributions pursuant to Section 4.01,
the Parties shall consult concerning their disposition, and if they
shall not agree, such amounts shall, to the extent they shall not
have been paid to the Fund, be cancelled, and, to the extent they
shall have been paid to the Fund, be prepaid, from the Fund on Pak-
istan's behalf, to the contributing Parties (other than Pakistan,
the United States and the Bank) in the proportion of their total
respective payments of contributions to the Fund hereunder. The
Administrator shall, after consultation with those contributing
Parties and Pakistan, determine the amounts, times, methods and cur-
rencies of payment. For the purposes of this Section 9.04 any unpaid
portion of the Indus balance shall be treated as assets remaining in
or payable to the Fund and shall be called for payment by the
Administrator.



- 20 -
Any rupees remaining in or payable to the Fund and not required to meet
the rupee cost of goods shall be paid to Pakistan..
SECTION 9.05.   Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement
it shall remain in effect for the purposes of disposition by the Admin-
istrator of assets of the Fund.
ARTICLE X
Settlement of Disputes
SECTION 10.01.   Any dispute between any of the Parties hereto con-
cerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement, or of any
supplementary arrangemen.t or agreement, which cannot be resolved by agree-
ment of such Parties, shall be submitted for final decision to an arbitra-
tor selected by such Parties, or, failing such selection., to an arbitrator
appointed by the Secretary General of the United Nations.
ARTICLE XI
Additional Parties and Contributions
SECTION 11.01.   Any member of the Bank, n.ot a Party to this Agree-
ment, or Switzerland, may, with the prior approval of Pakistan an.d the
Administrator an.d in. accordance with such arrangements as they shall agree,
become a contributing Party upon deposit with the Bank of an instrwment
stating that it accepts all the provision.s hereof and agrees to be boun.d
thereby.
SECTION 11.02.   The Administrator may receive on behalf of tlhe
Fun.d from any Government, institution or en.tity, whether or not a Party,
amounts n.ot provided for herein to be held and used as part of the Fund



- 21 -
subject to the provisions hereof, in accordance with such arrange-
ments, not inconsistent herewith, as the Administrator may approve.
ARTICLE XII
Purpose of Fund
SECTION 12.01. The Parties to this Agreement understand and
agree that the assets of the Fund are governmental and intergovern-
mental assets devoted exclusively to financing the construction of
the Project and that the acquisition by any person of any interest
of any kind or nature in the Fund, except as provided herein, would
be inconsistent with the purposes and intent of this Agreement and
that, for the proper implementation of this Agreement, no payment
shall be made in any circumstances whatever from the Fund to any per-
son without the unconditional and unrestrained approval of the
Administrator.
ARTICLE XIII
Notices, Requests and Reports
SECTION 13.01. Any notice, request or report required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice, request or report, shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered oy hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the Party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such Party's address specified in Section 13.02
or at such other address as such Party shall have designated by notice
to the Party giving such notice or report or making such request.



- 22 -
SECTICN 13.02, The followirg £ddreases are specified for the
purposes of Section 13.C1:
/to be supplied7
ARTICLE XIV
Signature and Entry into Force
SECTION 14.01. This Agreement shall remain open for signature
and acceptance on behalf of all the Parties namaed in the preamble to
this Agreement until April 30, 1968, or such later date as may be
fixed by the Bank by notice to the other said Parties.
SECTION 14.02. This Agreement shall enter into force and become
binding on all the Parties named in the preamble to this Agreement on
the date when each of them shall have signed it without reservation as
to acceptance or shall have signed it subject to acceptance and notified
the Bank of their acceptance. The Bank shall promptly after such date
notify each of the other Parties.
SECTION 14.03. All contributions made, and all actions of, or
approved by, the Bank as prospective Administrator, on or after the date
of this Agreement and before the date uhen this Agreement shall enter
into force, as aforesaid, shall be deemed to have been made or done pur-
suant to this Agreement, and credits and charges to the Fund and to the
Parties shall be upon that basis.



- 23 -
ARTICLE XV
Title
SECTION 15.01. This Agreement may be cited as the "Tarbela
Development Fund Agreement, 1968".
DONE AT              _     , this           _  day of_
1968, in a single original to be deposited in the archives of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which shall
communicate certified copies thereof to each of the Parties signatory
to this Agreement.



- 24 -
Schedule
Description of Project
The Project is an earth and rockfill embankment dam on the
River Indus about 6 miles downstream from Tarbela Village. It is
designed to provide an initial gross storage capacity to normal
operating level of about 11.1 million acre feet. The Project includes
a powerhouse structure to accommodate 4 generating units of about 175
megawzatts each, and the transport and installation of those units nith
associated mechanical and electrical equipment, but does not include
the procurement or cost of the units or the equipment.



