Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21671-VA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING & INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.70 MILLION (US$ 3.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
FOR
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
JUNE 19,2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = vatu (Vt)
Vt 1 = US$0.007
US$1.00 = Vt 140
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB Asian Development Bank
AusAID Australian Agency for International Development
CDU Curriculum Development Unit (MEYS)
CRP Comprehensive Reform Program
EMP Education Master Plan
IDA International Development Association (The World Bank)
LIC Learning & Innovation Credit
MEYS Ministry of Education, Youth & Sport
MOF Ministry of Finance & Economic Development
NGO Nongovernmental organization
PASEP Primary & Secondary Education Project (IDA Credit 1964-VAN)
PHRD Professional Human Resources Development (Japan) Grant
PIP Project Implementation Plan
PMU Project Management Unit
SIL Summer Institute of Linguistics
VCC Vanuatu Cultural Center (Ministry of Interior)
VRDTCA Vanuatu Rural Development Training Centers Association
VTC Vanuatu Teachers College (MEYS)
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:   Klaus Rohland
Acting Sector Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader:    Alfonso F. de Guzman



VANUATU
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                    8
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                              11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               11
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                            13
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         15
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    20
5. Environmental                                                                    21
6. Social                                                                           22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   24
2. Critical risks                                                                    24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          26



2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities or Financial Summary    47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           74
MAP(S)
IBRD 31505



VANUATU
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: March 12, 2001                              Team Leader: Alfonso F. de Guzman
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Project ID: P004823                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, ES - Secondary
Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
1 I Loan    [XI Credit    I1 Grant     [ J Guarantee     [ O Other:
For LoansiCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 3.50
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 30
Commitment fee: 1/2 of 1% p.a.                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.25           0.00          0.25
IDA                                                            1.32           2.18          3.50
Total:                                                         1.57           2.18          3.75
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND SPORT
Address: P.O. Box 153, Port Vila, Vanuatu
Contact Person: Mr. George Andrews, Director General
Tel: (678) 22309           Fax: (678) 22849          Email: andrews@vanuatu.com.vu
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
!  FY   j  2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    0.50        1.00       1.25       0.75
Cumulative    0.50        1.50      2.75       3.50
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit (LIC) is to identify an efficient,
replicable, and sustainable model for the provision of instruction in vernacular languages and in
English and French, in rural areas of Vanuatu. Specifically, the project would pilot-test whether
Vanuatu can effectively deliver a package of innovations intended to help the country move
toward its objective of Education for All, defined as formal basic education of good quality
through year 8. The innovations to be piloted under the project are expected to: (i) increase
access, (ii) improve quality, (iii) enhance children's learning processes and therefore make them
better prepared either to pursue further education or to continue learning informally throughout
life, (iv) provide education of greater relevance, (v) empower people through the conservation of
their unique languages, cultures, and identities, (vi) enhance social cohesion and increase respect
for diversity, and (vii) develop and enhance partnerships among the key stakeholders, including
the Government, the churches and other nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), parents,
communities, and donors. Implemented successfully, the LIC is expected to lead to a series of
follow-on Adaptable Program Credits which would generalize the successful innovations
throughout the country. The logical framework for the project is in Attachment 1: Project Design
Summary.
The key innovations to be tested in pilot schools under the project would be: (i) use of indigenous
languages in preschool education of two years and in year 1, (ii) teaching of science and social
studies in indigenous languages in years 2-6, (iii) provision of terminal lower junior secondary
education (years 7-8) in Community Secondary Day Schools for those unable to attend Junior
Secondary Schools (years 7-10), (iv) teaching of Bislama (the national lingua franca) as a subject
in years 7 and 8, (v) greater parent and community involvement in provision of facilities, in
decisions concerning the school, and specific content of education, and (vi) greater involvement of
churches and other NGOs in the provision of education and development of learning materials.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1   To indicate that the most efficient mechanism for community and NGO participation has
been achieved, evidence will be gathered that:
*  Education in the relevant indigenous languages has in fact been successfully introduced
into all of the project's pilot schools. This implies that the Government has worked
successfully with communities, churches, and other nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) to (i) develop learning materials for preschool education and year 1 in the
local indigenous languages of the communities where the pilot schools are located; and
(ii) identify certified teachers fluent in these languages to teach primary year 1 as well
as science and social science in years 2-6.
*  Communities and the Vanuatu Preschool Association (an NGO) are working together
successfully, with some support from the Government, to introduce two years of
preschool education in indigenous languages at all of the project's pilot schools.
*  By the end of primary year 1, children learning in their own indigenous language
- 2 -



exhibit improved learning outcomes, based on simple cognitive evaluation measures,
than children learning only in English or French in the project's control group of
schools.
* Schools in selected pilot locations are built, furnished, equipped, and staffed to offer
secondary years 7 and 8.
2.2   To indicate that a feasible, operational system is in place for replicating the piloted reform,
evidence will be gathered that:
*  In community secondary school years 7 and 8, the following have been introduced: (i)
a new science curriculum with emphasis on science for the immediate environment and
practical life skills; and (ii) a curriculum for the new subject of Bislama orthography.
*  Teachers in all pilot schools have successfully completed training programs developed
by the Vanuatu Teachers College.
*  A MEYS Policy & Planning Service a monitoring and evaluation system periodically
compares learning outcomes of the pilot schools' higher years with those in schools in
the existing system and shares the information with Provincial Education Offices.
2.3   To indicate that technical support for education reform is in place, evidence will be
gathered that:
* Grant proposals from local School Committees are processed on time.
*  Construction and renovation are completed on time at agreed level of quality.
*  School computers, running on solar power, are in active use by teachers.
*  The national textbook-to-pupil ratio is maintained at 1:1 in mathematics.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-0074           Date of latest CAS discussion: May 5, 2000
No separate Country Assistance Strategy has been prepared by the Bank for Vanuatu. There is,
however, a strategy note for the Pacific island member countries of the World Bank which
includes an annex on Vanuatu. The Bank's Pacific regional strategy aims to build human capital,
policies, institutions, and infrastructure needed to bring about equitable and sustainable growth.
The goal of the regional strategy is to reduce disparities within countries and to promote equitable
access to the benefits of development through focused lending, particularly in the social sectors
(education and health). With regard to Vanuatu, the Pacific regional strategy mentions that the
Bank should continue to provide nonlending services to Vanuatu in several sectors in which we
have a comparative advantage, including education. Since several other donors are active in
Vanuatu, the Bank would provide IDA credits in a very limited number of key sectors, including
education, in which we have worked with the Government for more than a decade.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Vanuatu and its education system
1.   Independent since 1980 from joint British and French colonial administration, Vanuatu's
190,000 people live in the South Pacific archipelago previously known as the New Hebrides. The
- 3 -



country derives most of its income from agriculture (both export and subsistence) and tourism.
An inherited dual-lingual education system directed mainly at preparing young people for further
education and formal employment has become irrelevant to the needs of the people who speak
over 100 Melanesian languages, who cherish their traditional island way of life, and who will be
unable, for the most part, to find employment in the formal sector. The inherited education system
also promoted an education model which, as it was expanded, proved an increasingly
unsustainable burden on the Government budget. With IDA support, the Government developed a
National Education Master Plan which would reform the system to provide culturally relevant and
fiscally affordable basic education to all ni-Vanuatu children. This Plan would be refined and
further developed under the proposed project.
2.    Vanuatu is placing its hopes for recovery in an ambitious Comprehensive Reform Program
(CRP) which, if carried out as planned, will affect and improve every aspect of the economy and
society. The CRP was developed with broad participation and consultation with all parts of
Vanuatu society and was endorsed by all political leaders, including those in the opposition, at a
National Summit held in July 1997. The CRP includes major economic reforms as well as a
reform of the public service and a redefinition of the role of Government. The CRP was endorsed
by all the major donors at a consultative meeting on Vanuatu held in late 1997 in Noumea, New
Caledonia.
3.    The improvement of education is highlighted in the CRP as being at the heart of the
reform process, and education is accordingly being given highest priority within the CRP.
Education is viewed both as a major contributing factor to economic growth (through a literate
and better skilled work force) and as the single most important tool for promoting a more
equitable society (by universalizing basic education so that everyone has an equal chance at
available opportunities). Goals set forth specifically in the CRP include the following: (i) to
provide universal access to basic education by the Year 2010; (ii) to modify the curriculum so that
children and young people obtain the knowledge and skills they need to contribute effectively to
national development; and (iii) to make the education system more cost-effective, so that available
resources are used as effectively as possible.
4.    Through the recently completed Primary and Secondary Education Project (PASEP,
financed by Credit 1964-VAN), IDA provided assistance toward expanding access through school
construction, enhancing quality through curriculum development, teacher training, and textbook
production, and improving management through the provision of equipment and technical
assistance. While PASEP was still under way, the Government began discussions with IDA on
future IDA support to the education sector. The Government was eager to continue IDA
assistance for school construction, development and provision of textbooks, teacher training, and
institutional strengthening; in addition, it sought IDA's advice on how its existing education
system might be modified and reformed to address the sector's issues and to meet the objectives
set forth for the education sector in the CRP. IDA responded by (a) requesting the Government
of Japan to provide PHRD Grant TF0252 1 1 for the preparation of a new project and (b)
mounting a major sector review mission in mid-1998 to assist the Government in preparing an
Education Master Plan. The first PHRD Grant was disbursed mostly for (i) the evaluation of
PASEP, (ii) studies of the economics of education in Vanuatu, and (iii) the hiring of technical
- 4 -



assistance for the development of the Education Master Plan and for a study of Vanuatu's
indigenous languages. The Master Plan set the stage for the future development of Vanuatu's
education system, including this proposed project. In addition to providing lending and technical
assistance, IDA is being asked to continue to provide the lead coordinating role among donors in
the education sector and to enhance partnerships with NGOs. IDA is viewed as the best donor
for this task because of its ability to bring widespread international expertise and experience to
bear on education issues, its objectivity, and its long experience working with Vanuatu in the
education sector.
Lessons learned
5.    From IDA's experience with PASEP and from other education lending in general and
particularly in Melanesia, notably in Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, lessons in
mounting systemic reformn have shown that for such an operation to succeed, the following must
be achieved: (i) ownership by principal beneficiaries, in this project, the village communities,
including parents; (ii) participation of key stakeholders in civil society, including traditional village
leaders, churches, and political parties; (iii) partnership between the Government and the private
sector, principally NGOs; (iv) continuing dialogue and consensus-building among political leaders
and groups; and (v) coordinated donor support.
Issues in the education sector
6.    The people and Government of Vanuatu place a high value on schooling but find certain
elements of their current education system: (a) inadequate, because there are not enough student
places after primary year 6; (b) costly and inefficient, because of high rates of repetition and
dropout, because children are not learning adequately for the costs incurred, and because it takes
13-14 years to produce a student ready for higher education; (c) inequitable, because there are
widespread regional, urban-rural, and social differences in education provision; and (d) urban- and
formal-sector oriented and therefore irrelevant, because many among the educated cannot find
employment in the very small formal economy and therefore most school leavers need to makes
their lives in their rural villages, an environment for which the school system has not prepared
them and from which it has in fact alienated them. There are also widespread perceptions that the
country's language policy in education needs to be changed, that new partnerships need to be
forged to expand the resource base and improve delivery, and that education planning needs to be
strengthened. The education system is being subjected to increasing resource constraints at the
same time as greater demands are being placed on it. These major issues in the education sector,
and the Government's strategies for addressing them, are discussed in the following paragraphs.
7.    Access. Although classified as a low-income country, Vanuatu has managed to provide
access to primary education (years 1-6) throughout the country. In some communities, however,
traditional chiefs and parents resist sending their children to school because they perceive the
school as providing an education which alienates children from their own culture and which is
irrelevant to the children's needs for life; this problem is discussed further under "relevance"
(below). In addition, an unacceptably high percentage of children who commence primary school
do not finish it in six years or do not finish it at all; this problem is discussed further under
- 5 -



"quality" and "efficiency" (below). Finally, at present, only about 40% of children who finish year
6 are able to find places in year 7; the others are forced out of the education system after year 6.
This problem causes strains on Vanuatu's social fabric, since the children from wealthy and urban
families are perceived to have an advantage over children from poorer and rural families. In
addition, the existing provision of secondary-education facilities is perceived to benefit some
provinces more than others. The Government's strategy is three-pronged: (i) make primary
education more relevant to Vanuatu's culture and needs, in order to attract those children whose
parents and community leaders at present resist sending them to school; (ii) improve the quality of
education to reduce repetition and dropout rates; and (iii) provide universal Education for All of
eight years (plus preschool education), over the long term, to all children of the relevant age
group, by gradually expanding the physical facilities, the number of teachers, and the materials
available for years 7 and 8 in all provinces.
8.    Quality. The quality of education being provided to Vanuatu's children is universally
judged to be low. Children demonstrate low levels of knowledge acquisition and limited
preparedness for either further education or life following school, which makes parents question
the value of sending and keeping their children in school. Vanuatu's examinations system at
present is used only to select children for the next higher level of education and does not yet have
the capacity to evaluate children's levels of learning over time, but the results achieved by children
at the end of years 6, 10, and 12 (the testing points) are judged by all observers to be lower than
desired and achievable for children at those stages. Secondary-school leavers finishing year 12 in
Vanuatu's Anglophone school system must study a further year (year 13) before they are judged
to be prepared for higher education; in the Francophone system, they must study a further two
years (13 and 14) before they may enter the (Francophone) University of New Caledonia. The
Govermment's strategy is to improve the quality of education through continuation of three
activities which were supported under the previous Bank-supported education project (PASEP)
and a fourth activity which would be piloted under this proposed Learning and Innovation Credit.
The three on-going activities are: (i) a wider supply of improved teaching and learning materials
at all year levels, (ii) expanded and improved teacher training and teacher supervision, and (iii)
improved physical facilities. The new activity to be piloted under this proposed Learning and
Innovation Credit is the use of indigenous languages in preschool education and year 1. (In
Vanuatu's context, the term "indigenous languages" in this document means the Austronesian
languages spoken as mother tongues in Vanuatu, plus Vanuatu's variety of Melanesian pidgin,
Bislama, which is widely used as a lingua franca and has become the mother tongue of a limited
number of children in Vanuatu's two urban areas where people from different parts of the country
have settled in close proximity.)
9.    Relevance. It is widely perceived that Vanuatu's present education system lacks sufficient
relevance, in two important ways: (i) it does not adequately conserve and pass on to the next
generation the country's rich and extremely diverse wealth of languages and cultures and (ii) it
does not adequately provide the skills young people need if they are to function in Vanuatu's and
the wider world's society and economy. The Government's strategy over the medium and long
term is, first, to conserve and use local languages in early basic education and, second, to continue
and expand efforts to reform the curriculum throughout the education system for greater
relevance to community and national goals. In particular, the curriculum of basic education is to
- 6 -



be modified so that children completing year 8 are well prepared either to reintegrate themselves
into their communities (the majority) or to pursue further education successfully (the minority).
10.   Equity. The differences in education provision among various groups (provincial;
urban/rural; wealthy/poor) are both real and widely perceived. It is noteworthy that females are
well represented in education at all levels except for the upper levels of secondary education. The
Government's strategy, which is modest but feasible, is to universalize the provision of preschool
education and years 1 through 8 over the long term. In particular, preschool education and years
7 and 8 are to be provided throughout the country close to the children's homes, which will
reduce the grievances of the less-well provided provinces and the rural areas, where most of the
country's poor live.
11.   Language. Vanuatu's constitution establishes that the Government "shall protect the
different local languages which are part of the national heritage," that Bislama (the Melanesian
pidgin used in Vanuatu, para. 9) is the national language, and that English and French are "the
principal languages of education." At present, many of Vanuatu's indigenous languages are at risk
of becoming extinct, and parents and communities are deeply concerned that their cultures and
their unique identities are dying with their languages. Bislama, the national lingua franca, is
growing in use but is widely perceived as needing efforts at standardization, to give it the prestige
befitting its status as the national language. Standards of both English and French are judged to
be inadequate, with many young people learning neither language well, and very few able to
fumction effectively in both languages. The Govermnent intends to protect the local indigenous
languages and Bislama by (i) ensuring that over the medium and long term, writing systems are
developed for languages which as yet are unwritten, and dictionaries and grammars are developed
for those languages which as yet do not have them, and (ii) as resources permit, producing
learning materials in these languages (for literacy in year I and for science and social studies in the
succeeding years of primary education) and using them in schools. The teaching of English and
French is to be strengthened not only by producing more and better materials in these languages
and by providing better preservice and in-service teacher training, but also through the use of
indigenous languages for initial literacy, which experience elsewhere has demonstrated leads to
improved learning thereafter, including better achievements in second languages.
12.   Efficiency. Vanuatu's present education system is characterized by high rates of
repetition and drop-out, which are major factors in the system's high costs and inefficiency. The
Government's strategy is to reduce these inefficiencies both through improvements in quality and
through the use of indigenous languages for initial literacy, which experience elsewhere has
demonstrated leads to higher promotion and retention rates.
13.   Partnerships. Formal education in the modern sense was introduced to Vanuatu by
rnissionaries in the nineteenth century, and the churches are still involved in education, although
the Government is now the main provider of education in Vanuatu. Several nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) (the Summer Institute of Linguistics, World Vision, the Vanuatu
Community Development Trust) have been involved in developing literacy materials in local
indigenous languages, mainly for adult literacy, and another NGO (the Vanuatu Preschool
Association) has been involved in providing preschool education. Parents and communities are
- 7 -



requested to provide "voluntary" contributions to the education system but often have not been
involved in an optimal sense. Given that fiscal constraints have made it increasingly difficult for
the Government to provide quality education to an ever greater number of children, the
Government must continue to rely on partnerships with churches and other NGOs. The
Government's strategy is therefore to build closer partnerships with the churches, the
nongovernmental organizations already involved in literacy and preschool activities, parents, and
communities in order to address other issues of the sector (access, quality, relevance, equity).
14.   Education finance. Economic growth in Vanuatu in recent years has been unable to keep
up with the rapid rate of population growth (both have averaged around 2.8% p.a.). In this
situation, the Government has found it difficult to expand and improve social services but has
protected education (para. 4). The Government relies on the World Bank (IDA) and other donors
for its entire investment budget in education: Australia and France for teacher training, technical
education, materials, scholarships, and technical assistance; the European Union for school
construction and technical assistance; Japan (through the PHRD grant) for technical assistance;
and IDA for teaching materials, teacher training, infrastructure, and technical assistance. The
United Kingdom and New Zealand are also active in the education sector, but in more narrowly
targeted assistance. Economic contraction in the last two years, combined with continuing
population growth, have meant that recurrent unit costs of education provision have declined,
even though the Government has protected the education sector's share at about 27% of the
recurrent budget (the single biggest sectoral allocation). In this context, the Government's
strategy is both to build partnerships and seek additional resources for education and to use
available resources for education more efficiently and effectively.
15.   Education planning. The Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports has made impressive
advances both in gathering the data needed for education planning and in analyzing and using it.
In such a small country, however, the available human resources are very thinly stretched. Over
the medium term, the Govermnent's strategy for education planning will continue to be reliance on
externally provided technical assistance at the same time as nationals are acquiring training in
education planning.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The proposed Learning and Development Credit has been designed at the request of
Vanuatu's Ministry of Education. By piloting the introduction of indigenous languages at the
beginning of a child's education, and the provision of years 7 and 8 nearer children's homes, it
would address the key issues of the education sector listed above:
I .    Access. The use of indigenous languages in the early years of education is expected to
encourage parents, traditional leaders and communities to participate more fully in the life of the
school and to diminish resistance to sending children to school and keeping them in school. As
has been demonstrated in other countries, the use of local languages is also expected to result in
reduced dropout, such that more children will stay in school until they complete basic education.
Finally, the innovation is expected to allow more children to proceed on to years 7 and 8, offering
universal basic education of a duration more in keeping with the standards of other countries in
the modern world.
-8 -



2.    Quality. There is considerable evidence from around the world that children achieve
literacy better when they are taught in their mother tongue. There are both cognitive and
psychological reasons for this. The cognitive reason is that the ability to read and write is easier if
children's first attempts to decipher and write words are words that the children already know.
The acquisition of basic literacy in the mother tongue appears to make children better able to learn
all subjects more easily thereafter, including other languages, even if these subjects are thereafter
taught in a language other than the mother tongue. The psychological reason is that children are
excited, inquisitive, self-confident, and self-motivated about learning when their mother tongue is
used as the initial language of instruction, and these attitudes about learning and schooling persist
throughout their later lives. Conversely, children are often confused and frightened if initially
forced to become literate in a language they do not understand and may never have heard. These
attitudes also persist throughout later life. Although the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit
will not last long enough to measure the learning outcomes of the children participating in the
pilot after six, ten, and twelve years of education, evidence from other countries suggests that
they will demonstrate superior learning achievements in all subjects, including their second
language. The continued assistance under the project for curriculum development and the
production of learning materials, teacher training, and improved facilities are also expected to
improve quality outcomes.
3 .    Relevance. The development of literacy materials in local languages will be accompanied
by the inclusion of local content, lore, stories, legends, poems and songs in the curricula for
preschool education and year 1. Under general guidelines established by the MEYS, science and
social studies in years 2 through 6 will be taught in local mother tongues, with specific examples
used by teachers in the classroom taken from local experience, to the extent possible. Efforts in
curriculum development and the production of learning materials will continue to make both the
curriculum and the learning materials more relevant to Vanuatu's realities and development needs.
4.    Equity. By piloting a method which will enable poor children in rural areas who have not
been extensively exposed to English or French a chance to acquire basic literacy in their mother
tongues, the proposed project is expected to reduce the urban-rural and the wealthy-poor
dichotomies. By piloting a new system under which all children will be able to attend preschool
education classes established with community and government support, the proposed project is
expected to improve poor children's chances in primary school, in contrast to the present system,
under which privately supported preschool education facilities are more likely to cater to
wealthier parents in urban areas. By introducing years 7 and 8 at the same sites as existing
primary schools (years 1 through 6), the proposed project is expected to pilot a system in which
inequalities among provinces will be reduced. In addition, since there are real costs in sending
children away to the boarding schools where secondary education is now offered, this new system
is expected to increase the chances of poor families to send their children to years 7 and 8.
5.    Language. The system piloted under the proposed project will lead, over the medium and
long term, to the development of writing systems, dictionaries, grammars, and learning materials
for many of Vanuatu's as yet unwritten languages, thus fulfilling the mandate of the Constitution
to protect these languages. Similarly, the development of learning materials in Bislama, the
-9-



national language, will standardize its usage. English and French will continue to be the principal
languages of education, as mandated by the Constitution. Moreover, as evidence from elsewhere
suggests, the standards achieved by students in these two languages are expected to improve,
once children acquire literacy in their mother tongues. In a pilot in Guatemala using Indian
mother tongues in early basic education in years I through 3 and Spanish in years 4 through 6,
Indian children spoke and wrote better Spanish at the end of year 6 than did Indian children in the
traditional system who learned in Spanish throughout primary school (years I through 6).
Similarly, in Mali, children who learned in their mother tongues in early basic education (mother
tongue in years 1 and 2, transition to French in years 3 and 4, and French thereafter)
demonstrated better learning achievements in mathematics and in French than did children from
similar backgrounds who were taught in French in years 1 through 6.
6.    Efficiency. Evidence from other countries also suggests that repetition and dropout rates
in primary education will diminish, once children acquire literacy in their mother tongues. In the
Guatemala case cited above, the real financial savings from reduced repetition and dropout proved
more than enough to cover the costs of developing learning materials in Indian languages.
7.    Partnerships. Under the proposed pilot project, the Government would continue and
formalize working relationships already begun with a number of stakeholders, as follows:
* to establish and maintain two years of preschool education: the Vanuatu Preschool
Association (an NGO), parents, and communities;
to develop learning materials in indigenous languages: the Summer Institute of
Linguistics, World Vision (another NGO), and the Vanuatu Community Development
Trust (another NGO);
3 to provide specific local inputs to the general curriculum established by MEYS: parents,
and communities;
3 to carry out language research and to transcribe materials in a vast collection of
tape-recorded oral history for use in curriculum development and the production of
learning materials in mother tongues: the Vanuatu Cultural Center (a government agency)
and the University of the South Pacific;
*  to train teachers in the use of indigenous languages in instruction: the Vanuatu Teachers
College and the Summer Institute of Linguistics;
*  to assist in the management of the education system and the provision of physical facilities
for the expansion of education, particularly years 7 and 8: the churches, parents, and
communities; and
*  to provide assistance for specific inputs: other donors, including Australia, France, the
European Union, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand.
8.    Education finance. The partnerships just mentioned reflect the Government's strategy of
using the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit to mobilize nongovernnental resources
effectively for education. As mentioned under "Efficiency," the use of mother tongues is expected
to produce real financial savings over the medium term through a reduction in repetition and
dropout rates. Finally, the model to be tested under the project, which envisions the provision of
years 7 and 8 at the same location as existing primary schools instead of at secondary boarding
- 10 -



schools (years 7 through 10), is expected to result in some savings for the Government
(economies of scale in management, no need to provide boarding facilities) and major savings for
parents (no need to pay travel costs to the school, no need to pay boarding fees). Over a ten-year
period of phased restructuring of the system, the cost-effective provision of initial education with
significant contributions from other stakeholders and the rationalization of primary education are
expected to stabilize the recurrent annual fiscal education burden to affordable levels, i.e., within
the Government's likely revenue projections.
9.     Education planning. Through technical assistance and the transfer of technical skills to
nationals, the proposed Learning and Innovation project will address a number of key education
planning needs, including planning for improvement of facilities, curriculum development,
provision of learning materials, teacher training, school mapping, statistical projections of
enrollments, statistical projections of required financial requirements for recurrent costs, and
monitoring (of project outcomes) and evaluation (of project impacts). In particular, the project is
expected to provide (i) information and data for the reorganization of primary schools along
linguistic lines and (ii) the bases for estimating the resource requirements of a possible follow-on
project for system-wide reform (an Adaptable Program Credit).
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
O Economic    E Technical    Z Social           Z Participation
X Financial    1 Institutional  El Environmental [] Other
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would pilot the cost-effectiveness of delivering basic education through community
participation (annual consultations, community works) and partnerships with NGOs (preschool education,
language research and development of educational materials). To enable MEYS to replicate the pilot in
other communities, the proposed project would strengthen education and management capacity at the
central level (curriculum development, teacher training, sector and project management). To improve
quality at the school level, the proposed project would provide small grants to support good practices in
school, improve the physical environment of the school, and provide adequate equipment and learning
materials.
- 11.-



hidkative :i   ;   :  Bank-       % of
Componrnt                   Sector       Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
__.(US$M)   TTotal   ($M)  financing
1: Access & Quality                System Reform &     2.35      62.7       2.20      62.9
Capacity
Building
2: Capacity Building               System Reform &     1.40      37.3       1.30      37.1
Capacity
Building
Total Project Costs                   3.75     100.0       3.50     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    3.75      100.0      3.50      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
2.1 Executing agencies. Technical project implementation will be handled by Ministry of Education,
Youth & Sports (MEYS), while financial administration will be handled by the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MOF).
2.2       Policy management. The Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports (MEYS) will be the
responsible agency for project management. Policy guidance to the project will be provided by a
Project Steering Committee chaired by the MEYS Director General with members from the
Department of Econornic & Social Development (of the Ministry of Finance & Economic
Development) and the Department of Strategic Management (of the Ministry of Infrastructure).
2.3       Project management. In the Office of the Director General, the project will be managed
by the Director, Policy & Planning Service who will be designated Project Director (PD). The PD will
be supported by a Project Coordinator (PC) responsible for day-to-day administration. Operational
guidance will be provided by a Project Development Team chaired by the Director, Policy & Planning
Service with members from the Division of School Education Programs (MEYS), Division of
Administrative Services (MEYS), and the Directorate of Catholic Education (NGO). Staff services will
be provided by the Policy & Planning Service (which successfully managed PASEP, the first primary
and secondary educatioin project financed by the IDA Credit 1964-VAN.)
2.4       Project activities. The following project activities will be undertaken by the units
designated:
*   Community and NGO relations will be managed by the PD with the assistance of the PC.
In the field, they will be assisted by the Provincial Education Officers (PEOs). The PC will
act as executive secretary to the Vemacular Development Conmmittee.
*   Curriculum development will be managed by the Curriculum Development Unit at
Malapoa.
*   Teacher training will be managed by the Vanuatu Teachers College.
*  Project and sector programming (e.g., policy studies, statistics, school mapping), project
proposal evaluation (for school effectiveness), and preprocurement technical work
(construction, equipment, learning materials, technical assistance) will be managed by the
- 12 -



PD with the assistance of the PC and staff of the Policy & Planning Service.
* Financial management, civil works, and monitoring and evaluation services will be
outsourced under the supervision of the PD. Consultants in the relevant areas of
educational service (e.g., language of instruction, school mapping, curriculum and
materials development, teacher training, school construction) will provide technical
assistance. Management consultants (in project administration, procurement, and financial
management) will provide technical assistance and build capacity in the Policy & Planning
Service.
2.5       Financial management. The IDA assessment of financial management found the system
basically sound but recommended enhancements. A time-bound action plan to achieve those
enhancements was agreed between IDA and the Government. The details of the financial management
arrangements, disbursement, special account operations, audit arrangements, and action plan are
provided in Annex 6 (Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements).
The Government will establish a Special Account denominated in US dollars at the
Vanuatu Reserve Bank, to be managed by Ministry of Finance. With bank statements, copies of
General Payment Vouchers or Local Purchase Orders, and other supporting documents, the MOF will
prepare applications for replenishment on a monthly basis. When Project Management Reports
satisfactory to IDA can be produced, the replenishment may be made on a quarterly basis.
The annual project audit would be carried out by the Auditor General in accordance with
terms of reference provided in Annex 6. The annual audit report shall be furnished to IDA not later
than six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year, in a format to be agreed at negotiations.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring
3.1       Strategy. The project strategy includes (i) refinement of monitoring procedures and
evaluation methodology during the first semester of the project (pre-schoolyear, in 2001); (ii) regular
monitoring of implementation progress during the complete schoolyears of the project (i.e., 2003, and
2004); and (iii) evaluation of project outcomes during the last semester of the project in 2005.
Monitoring would be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator but undertaken by those immediately
responsible for any given project activity. Project evaluation would be undertaken by intemational
consultants under the technical assistance component of the project.
3.2       Roles. Monitoring Project progress in the area of their responsibility will be a specific part
of the TORs of every project managerial role: (l) School principals, (2) Teaching teams in community
secondary schools, (3) for all financial and accounting functions, the contracted financial manager, (4)
for all civil works, the contracted supervising architect or engineer, (5) the chief executive of all
contracted NGOs, (6) for all teacher training activities, the Director of Vanuatu Teachers College, (7)
for all revision and development of the formal curriculum, the Director of the Curriculum Development
Unit, (8) for the school-level quality initiatives, the contracted consultants.
3.3       General procedure. All managers will be required to report twice a year to the Project
Coordinator who will synthesize reports for the Project Director's report to the Project Steering
Committee. This committee brings together the director generals of all ministries (the highest
administrative authority of the Government) and makes recommendations to the Council of Ministers.
- 13 -



The following table summarizes the monitoring assignments. Multiple monitoring will be indicated
where it is expected (details in the PIP):
Monitoring    Monitoring      Monitoring
Responsibility  Responsibility  Responsibility
Project Activity                 l1              2              3
Curriculum & materials
Preschool                                 NGO            QIU
Primary year I                            Director, CDU   PP            RVC
Years 2-6                                 Director, CDU   PP            QIU
Secondary years 7 & 8                     NGO            Director CDU
Construction
Preschool                                 PP
Classroom renovation years 1-6            SAE            QIU            PP
Community secondary da schools            SAE            QIU            PC
Ministry work space                       SAE            PC             PD
Teacher trainingv
Preschool                                 NGO            QIU            Director, VTC
Primary & secondary                       Director, VTC   QIU           RVC
Whole school improvement initiatives      QIU            PC
Information access and utilization        TA             PC
Book floods & book barrels                PP             QIU            PC
Evaluation
Vemacular program                         RVC            PIU            PP
Development of vemaculars - research      VC             PD             PSC
Whole school improvement                  PIU            PC
Management
Overall project coordination              PD             PSC
Financial management                      PC             PD             PSC
Procurement                               SAE            PC             PD
Key: NGO: Nongovemmental organization; QIU: Quality Improvement Unit; TA: Technical Assistance;
CDU: Curriculum Development Unit; PC: Project Coordinator; PP: Primary Principal; SAE: Supervising
Architect Engineer; PD: Project Director; VTC: Vanuatu Teachers College; RVC: Representative,
Vemacular Committee; NA: Not Applicable; PFM: Project Financial Management; VC Vemacular
Committee; PSC: Project Steering Committee
Evaluation
3.4        The evaluation program will assess:
1. The completion percentage and quality of the renovation program for the 16 project
- 14 -



primary schools in relationship to the approved project budget and the annual work plans
2001-2003.
2. The degree of success of planned results as described in the Annual Work Plans for 2002,
2003 against the actual results achieved for the vernacular as language of instruction
3. The degree of success of planned results as described in the Annual Work Plans for 2002,
2003 against the actual results achieved for the development of the vocabulary, grammar
and orthography of the vernaculars used in project schools.
4. The degree of success of planned results as described in the Annual Work Plans for 2002,
2003 against the actual results achieved for the school quality improvement measures,
Years 2-6.
5. The degree of success of planned results as described in the Annual Work Plans for 2002,
2003 against the actual results achieved for the construction of 10 Community Secondary
Day Schools.
6. The degree of success of planned results as described in the Annual Work Plans for 2002,
2003 against the actual results achieved for the revision and modification of the curriculum
for years 7-8 of the Community Secondary Day Schools.
3.5       Schedule. All evaluation programs will be carried through in 2004. The evaluation of the
program for the development of the grammar, orthography, and vocabulary of the project's vernacular
languages will be carried through in 2002, 2003, 2004.
3.6       Process. The organizations and individuals that will carry through the evaluation will be
contracted in the second half of 2003. The evaluation of the development of vernacular languages will
be carried out internally under the umbrella of the Vernacular Development Committee. Because the
expertise required to judge each of these languages is very narrowly concentrated to only a few
individuals, and because those who are best able to judge the value of what has been achieved and what
yet remains to be done are those who have themselves brought it to its present point, the project would
partner external consultants with members of the Vernacular Development Commnittee who will be able
to bring sympathetic but also dispassionate (i.e., scholarly) reviews.
3.7       Outputs. Qualitatively and quantitatively founded reports will make it possible for the
Government to decide: (i) the elements of the project which have proved educationally successful; (ii)
the degree of success of these elements ranked by order; and (iii) the cost of these elements ranked by
order. A comparison of cost against benefit which will make it possible to decide the elements of the
project which provide the best cost/benefit ratio and which should be the priority elements for the
implementation of the Education Master Plan from 2005 onward.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
C Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The proposed Learning and Innovation Credit will pilot a number of innovations and will
- 15 -



put into place mechanisms and procedures to measure the costs and benefits of these innovations,
over time. Once the costs and benefits in the project's pilot schools are known, it will be possible
to do a more thorough cost-benefit analysis for a larger project based on the pilot.
Some of the benefits, such as empowerment, will be very difficult to measure, although a
possible proxy will be the willingness of parents and communities to support the provision of
education, which is expected to result in a decrease in the resources needing to be provided by
MEYS. These savings can be quantified. Similarly, the empowerment of children will be difficult
to measure, although useful proxies will be (i) the expected reductions in repetition and dropout
rates, the benefits of which can be quantified in monetary terms, and (ii) the expected
improvement in learning outcomes, which can be quantified in test results. Since the LIC will last
only four years (one year of planning/preparation and three years of implementation), it will be
impossible to measure the longer-term impact of such measures, which will occur only after the
LIC is finished.
Nonetheless, two quantifiable comparisons were made (Annex 4) between the innovations
to be piloted under the proposed project and the existing system: (i) the cost of providing places
to students in years 7 and 8 in local schools built using community-based construction methods
vs. the cost of providing places in years 7 and 8 to the same students in a conventional secondary
school built using Govermment resources; and (ii) the cost per pupil of community-built
classrooms for years 7 and 8 built in the home communities vs. the cost per pupil of classrooms
and boarding facilities for years 7 and 8 built at traditional junior-secondary schools like Tafea.
The following alternatives were considered during the preparation of this project:
1.    Type of assistance. A first consideration was whether to test an innovation or to continue
with "more of the same." The previous assistance, IDA-supported Primary and Secondary
Education Project, is generally considered to have been successful. It provided classrooms,
textbooks, and teacher training, all designed to increase access and improve education quality. It
did not, however, cover all the needs in these areas. A first idea was to do a follow-on project
which would provide additional classrooms, textbooks, and teacher training. It was felt, however,
that the existing package of educational inputs was not working and, in fact, could not improve
education standards simply by providing more of the same. In view of the positive experience of
other countries around the world with early basic education in children's indigenous languages, it
was decided to pilot this innovation in Vanuatu as well, to test the hypothesis that it may be one
of the key factors in improving children's attendance at school, attitudes towards learning, and
learning outcomes. If the innovation proves successful, it would be introduced gradually
elsewhere in the country, and the traditional inputs (infrastructure, learning materials, teacher
training) would be provided later, under a series of Adaptable Program Credits in support of
education in Vanuatu.
2.    Years of education in the indigenous language. Some countries, particularly those with
fewer languages, provide the entire primary cycle (six years or so) in indigenous languages and
transit to the use of an international language only in secondary school. Countries with many
languages cannot afford to produce the whole panoply of learning materials in a multitude of
- 16 -



languages throughout primary education, so the number of years that an indigenous language is
the language of instruction is reduced accordingly. In Vanuatu, the initial proposal was to have
the first two years of formal education taught in indigenous languages. This alternative was
rejected for a number of reasons: (a) it was felt that it was too great a change from the existing
system; (b) it was felt that it might harm the learning of an international language by reducing the
number of years in which children studied in the international language; and (c) it was felt that
mathematics in any case could not be well taught in several of the indigenous languages. The
alternative to be tested under the proposed project, therefore, involves using indigenous languages
in the first year (Grade 1) of formal education; instruction thereafter will be in English or French.
The Government is also considering the use of indigenous languages for some subjects beyond
Grade 1, although the piloting of that innovation will be outside the scope of the proposed
project.
3.    Type of teachers. At present, Vanuatu uses certified teachers (i.e., those with a diploma
from the Vanuatu Teachers College) throughout the primary-education system. These teachers
are paid salaries according to the civil service scale. In the existing system, since the language of
instruction is either English or French, teachers from any part of the country can be deployed to
any other part of the country, even though they may not speak the language of the community in
which they teach. Many recent graduates of the Vanuatu Teachers College are assigned to areas
away from their home, but most eventually seek to return to their home areas. A requirement of
the proposal to teach one or more grades in indigenous languages is that teachers be available in
the community who speak the local language. One alternative would have been to hire local
adults in their thirties or forties and give them intensive training as teachers. This alternative
would have ensured that there would be native speakers available as teachers in every language
area. It would also have reduced recurrent costs, since teachers without a diploma from the
Vanuatu Teachers College would not have been civil servants and could have been paid less than
certified teachers. The savings could have been used to expand access to and increase the quality
of education. This alternative was rejected because the Government and the three main bilateral
donors felt that certified teachers needed to be used throughout the system. The Government is
confident that over time it will be able to find certified teachers locally who are native speakers of
all the indigenous languages to be used in year 1.
4.    Years of preschool. Evidence from many different countries demonstrates that a
preschool experience can significantly enhance children's later achievements in formal education.
The main contributions are socialization and development of readiness for learning. In Vanuatu,
informal parent- and community-supported kindergartens already cater to about one third of the
relevant age group, and the Ministry of Education already provides assistance to a
nongovernmental umbrella group, the Vanuatu Preschool Association, which assists existing
kindergartens. Existing kindergartens are taught in indigenous languages; many of them provide
children with their first exposure to English or French, which under the existing system are the
languages which they will be taught in when they begin year I. Although in theory children attend
kindergarten only one year, in fact many smaller brothers and sisters accompany their older
siblings to kindergarten. Thus in those areas where kindergartens exist, many children attend
kindergarten for two or more years before they enter years 1. The initial proposal for the Learning
and Innovation Credit was to pilot a program which would, if it proved successful, introduce one
- 17 -



year of kindergarten, taught in indigenous languages, throughout the country, over a period of
years. With the decision to restrict the use of indigenous language to only one year (year 1) of
formal education, however, it was felt that two years of kindergarten taught in indigenous
languages would be needed if the goal of providing initial education in indigenous languages was
to be achieved.
5.    Payment of preschool teachers. At present, kindergartens are supported by parents and
communities, with some assistance from the Government. The initial proposal was to universalize
kindergartens, over time, throughout the country. It was thought that kindergartens could be
established in poorer parts of the country only if kindergarten teachers' salaries were paid by the
government. The (nongovernmental) Preschool Association of Vanuatu, however, has given
assurances that it will, over time, provide two years of preschool throughout the country, with the
teachers paid by the communities, as long as the Government continues to assist with other
contributions. This solution will allow the Government to use its recurrent resources to expand
access and improve quality of the formal-education system.
6.    Provision of years 7 and 8. Under the present system, an exarnination is given at the end
of years 6 to choose which students will be allowed to continue on to years 7 and beyond. For
the majority of students, therefore, years 6 is terminal. The Government has long desired to
expand enrollments in years 7 and 8 (and, for that matter, in years 9 and 10). Originally, it was
thought that it would be possible to build enough Junior Secondary Schools (offering years 7
through 10) so that all children completing years 6 could continue on through years 10.
Projections of recurrent costs indicate, however, that Vanuatu will be unable to afford universal
basic education of ten years or even eight years in the foreseeable future, given reasonable rates of
economic growth. One alternative considered was to offer years 7 and 8 at existing primary
schools (years 1-6). Under this proposal, communities would be requested to build facilities for
years 1 and 2, which would be offered in indigenous languages, using local people specially
trained as teachers. This proposal would have minimized new construction and capital
investments, since the existing primary-school facilities, with some modifications, could have been
used to provide years 3 through 8. It would also have minimized recurrent costs by using
lower-cost local people to teach years I and 2 and using the existing primary-school teachers,
with some upgrading, to teach years 3 through 8. The proposal would have permitted Vanuatu to
achieve universal basic education of eight years within 10 to 15 years. This alternative was
rejected because the Government felt that facilities built by the comnmunities for years 1 and 2
would be of too low a standard and that facilities at existing primary schools were of too low a
standard for years 7 and 8. The alternative now proposed is to continue to allow the best students
completing year 6 to enter the traditional Junior Secondary Schools and to allow some of the
others to attend new Government-built Community Secondary Day Schools (years 7 and 8).
These schools will be built and maintained by the Government. They will allow some expansion
to occur in years 7 and 8.
7.    Use of Bislama. Bislama, a pidgin language widely spoken in Vanuatu, is not one of the
country's indigenous Austronesian languages. Rather, it is a language which developed within the
past two centuries as Vanuatu's peoples came into contact with traders, whalers, missionaries, and
others from the outside. Its vocabulary is taken mainly from English although its grammnar and
- 18-



syntax are Melanesian. It is given official status in Vanuatu's Constitution as the national
language. It is used as a lingua franca throughout the country. In Port Vila, the capital, and
Luganville, the only other town of any size, where people from different parts of Vanuatu have
settled, it is the language commonly used in business, government, and social intercourse. It is
also used in some homes where the husband speaks one language and the wife another. During
the preparation of the project, consideration was given to whether Bislama should be used, along
with Austronesian languages, either in the pilot or thereafter. A proposal to use Bislama
throughout the education system had been considered previous to the World Bank's involvement
and had been rejected, with opposition coming from (a) some Anglophones, who argued that
knowledge of Bislama, given its similarities to English, might make it more difficult to learn
English properly, (b) some Francophones, who argued that the use of Bislama would supplant
French both in education and in society, (c) some education specialists, who pointed out that
Bislama was not most children's mother tongue and therefore would not improve children's
learning outcomes, and (d) others who remember periods of Vanuatu's recent history during
which the proposal to use Bislama was a divisive issue in the society. One alternative considered
was not to use Bislama in the education system, since it is neither an indigenous Austronesian
language nor one of the two languages (English and French) named in the Constitution as the
principal languages of education. With increasing mobility of the population and increasing
intermarriage between people of different ethnic groups, however, Bislama has become the
mother tongue of some children and is the de facto common language in schools where the
children speak several different mother tongues. It was agreed that in such cases, Bislama might
be used in preschool and primary year 1 as the indigenous language.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The financial issue in the project would be in the Government's risking greater reliance on
stakeholders, principally school commnunities and NGOs, including churches, for provision of
education services and education financing. The economnic and education efficiency gains,
however, far outweigh the risk (Annex 4).
Fiscal Impact:
The proposed LIC is a pilot effort, so the incremental recurrent costs of the LIC itself will have
only a limited impact on the Government's recurrent budget. As for the model to be tested under
the LIC, initial projections have been done using (i) an economic growth rate of about 3% p.a. in
real terms (the historic rate of growth since Independence, and also the rate of growth assumed by
the IMF), (ii) the assumption that the Government's recurrent budget will continue to represent
about 25% of GDP, and (iii) the assumption that the education sector will continue to receive
about 25% of the Government's recurrent budget. Under these assumptions, Vanuatu can now
afford universal education of years 1-6. At present, privately provided kindergarten, with some
government support, reaches about one-third of the relevant age group. The gradual expansion at
this level will have only a very limited fiscal impact on the Government's recurrent budget, since
kindergarten teachers will continue to be paid by the communities. The Governnent envisages a
gradual expansion of years 7-8 as resources permit. Projections indicate that universal coverage at
- 19 -



this level, using the model to be tested under the LIC, will be fiscally possible only in the long
term. Similarly, quality improvements throughout the system (as reflected in increased unit costs)
will be very gradual and only as resources pernit. The Government will face continued choices
and trade-offs between expansion of access and improvements in quality over the foreseeable
future. Projections of enrollments and ensuing recurrent costs will be redone and refined under
the LIC itself. In particular, varying assumptions of reductions in dropout and repetition (expected
as a result of the innovations being piloted) will be tested to determrine their effect on the time
period needed for achieving universal enrollment in years 7-8 and improvements in quality.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The technical issue in the project is the ability to prepare in a timely fashion and quality curricula
and materials in indigenous languages. To address this issue, the project would support language
research among a variety of providers, including academic institutions and NGOs, and the
operation of a Vernacular Development Committee in which the Vanuatu Cultural Center is
expected to play a principal role.
4. Institutional:
Since Vanuatu is a small country, its education ministry is similarly small, consisting of about a
dozen professional staff. Continued technical assistance will be required to assist the ministry in
carrying out the project and in coordinating the inputs of the various other organizations involved
in project implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Technical project implementation will be handled by Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports
(MEYS), while financial administration will be handled by the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOF).
4.2 Project management:
There are no significant project management risks to the project. The policy, project
administration, and activity implementation arrangements are set out in Sec. C.2 (above).
4.3 Procurement issues:
4.3.1     Although the country's laws, regulations and legal practices are generally
satisfactory with regard to procurement, an assessment of the procurement environment found
no detailed national procurement procedures. Current procurement practice in procurement in
development projects is to follow the donors' guidelines and procedures. Although they have
been so far satisfactory, they do not specifically mandate any public bid opening or detail any
procedures on complaint resolution. No procurement audit has been conducted.
4.3.2     Technical specifications, bidding, and contract documents have not yet been
standardized. Most documents in use are for projects and follow standards required by their
respective donor-financiers. (However, the Ministry of Public Works has standard technical
- 20 -



specifications for simple works and standard unit prices which are updated annually.)
4.3.3     As the Government's capacity for carrying out detailed technical procurement is
low, most technical work in procurement is usually undertaken by foreign consultants.
However, the Government is committed to capacity building and has agreed to include
capacity enhancement in its Action Plan for the project, for IDA appraisal. Priority units for
capacity building are: (i) the Tender Board, the central procurement authority which has
limited guidelines for operations; (ii) Office of the Auditor General, for conducting external
procurement audit; and (iii) MEYS, in procurement specific to this project. Further, the
project preparation team at MEYS is developing a Project Management Manual which would
include the procurement procedures applicable to the proposed project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
4.4.1     Having successfully implemented the Primary & Secondary Education Project
(PASEP, Credit 1964-VAN), MEYS is familiar with IDA disbursement procedures. However,
since IDA's financial management requirements are new for the country, there is as yet
insufficient capacity for and understanding of financial management roles and responsibilities
among project management staff at the central level. At the local level, the role of the
community and NGO participation in the implementation of the project may not be adequately
understood by the participants themselves.
4.4.2     The above-cited Project Management Manual would provide specific guidance on
the procedures to be followed by project implementors at MEYS at MOF at the central level
and by the School Committees and NGOs at the local level. Training on procurement and
fmancial management would be provided to relevant staff at the central level, by consultants
under the project's technical assistance program.
5. Environmental:                 Environmnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
(Not applicable)
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
(Not applicable)
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
(Not applicable)
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
(Not applicable)
- 21 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
(Not applicable)
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social innovation to be introduced under the project would be the empowerment of people,
particularly poor people in rural areas who do not hear or use English and French regularly, and
also particularly their children, through the conservation of their languages, cultures, and identities
inherent in the use of mother tongues in education and the inclusion of local content in learning
materials and the teaching process. Experience from other countries suggests that this innovation
will result in far greater support from parents and communities for the education endeavor, and
much improved long-term learning outcomes for the children. The proposal to pilot the provision
of Years 7 and 8 in or near the home community or home island is expected to increase parents'
and communities' sense of ownership in this level of education and their active support and
participation. This would not only eliminate costly boarding which now burdens the residential
junior secondary schools but also minimize the social disorientation among village children who
"can't go home again" after years of boarding on another island.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The most important stakeholders are schoolchildren, their parents, and their communities. MEYS
staff have visited two of the proposed pilot areas to consult with the parents and communities
about the project. In both cases, the community has agreed to the pilot and would participate in
project implementation, particularly in the construction of housing for years 7 and 8 teachers.
The churches, key stakeholders, have also been consulted and would be actively involved in
project implementation. In addition to MEYS and the Ministry of Finance, other governmental or
quasi-governmental agencies such as the Vanuatu Cultural Center and the University of the South
Pacific (Faculty of Pacific Languages) have been and will continue to be involved in the
development of materials in indigenous languages.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Put simply, the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit can not be implemented without the
participation of NGOs, which have been consulted since February 1998, when initial discussions
about the project took place in Vanuatu. The introduction of two years of preschool under the
proposed project depends on the Vanuatu Preschool Association. Similarly, the development of
curriculum materials in indigenous languages will build on the past experience and depends on the
continued participation of NGOs such as the Summer Institute of Linguistics, World Vision,
Vanuatu Community Development Trust, and the Vanuatu Rural Development Training Center
Association (VRDTCA). The Malvatumauri National Council of Chiefs strongly supports the use
- 22 -



of indigenous languages in education and continues to enjoy considerable influence and prestige
among Vanuatu's population, particularly in rural areas. The Vanuatu National Women's Council
and the Vanuatu Teachers' Union are other organizations represented on the National Council for
the Education Master Plan, under the aegis of which the project has been developed.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To ensure that community consultation is institutionalized, membership to the Project Steering
Committee which would provide policy guidance to project management would include the
Directorate of Catholic Education, the largest church organization operating at the level of school
community. To ensure that partnerships with NGOs is institutionalized, a Vernacular
Development Committee would be organized, in the working group of which many leading
educational, linguistic, and religious NGOs are already active, among them, World Vision,
Summer Institute of Linguistics, VRDTCA, Vanuatu Council of Churches.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Since this is a Learning and Innovation Credit, the monitoring mechanisms would be developed
during the first year of project implementation. Internationally recruited technical expertise will
be hired under the project to assist MEYS in developed these mechanisms.
It is envisaged that learning outcomes of children in the pilot schools will be measured and
compared with those of control groups through evaluative examinations administered at the end
of years 1, 6, 8, 10 and 12. During the four-year implementation period of the LIC itself, it will
be possible see effects only after year 1. It is envisaged that social outcomes will be evaluated,
over time, by comparing repetition and dropout rates in pilot schools with those in control-group
schools. It is also envisaged that mechanisms will be developed to measure children's and parents'
attitudes towards schooling in both the pilot schools and the control-group schools.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?_
Policy                                   Appllcabilft
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                           0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project has been designed in compliance with the objectives and provisions of OD 4.20,
specifically to benefit the children of Vanuatu who are all indigenous. No involuntary resettlement
- 23 -



is envisaged because land and other assets needed for carrying out the project would be either
voluntarily provided by the benefiting community that owns the land and other assets or acquired
under open and voluntary market transactions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. As the Government's partners in         S        1. The project would support NGO partners by
providing basic education, NGOs may not             providing teacher training and supervision
always deliver their services adequately,           grants to the preschool association. Through the
at an acceptable level of quality, or at            annual consultation with the pilot communities,
reasonable cost.                                    the project would identify constraints to the
effectiveness of church-supported schools for
remedial action.
2. The intemational donor community        M        2. Through the project's capacity building
might leave basic education, in the                 component, the Government would develop for
mistaken belief that IDA would provide              the entire education sector (i) an investment
all technical and financial assistance in           plan; and (ii) a framework agreement that would
this subsector.                                     map donor interests and resources to the needs
identified and prioritized in the Education
Master Plan. Both instruments would be
specifically designed for coordinating donor
assistance especially to basic education. Further,
through the pilot, IDA would absorb start-up
risks, presenting to donors tested alternatives for
their own investment.
3. The pilot's community secondary day     N        3. The school mapping to be undertaken as part
school might make the donor-supported               of the project's capacity building at the national
secondary school construction program               level would provide the demographic guidance
redundant.                                          to the secondary school construction program.
Further, should the community secondary school
become the norm, the buildings of the ongoing
project could be upgraded to senior secondary
schools.
- 24 -



From Components to Outputs
4. Although substantial linguistic research  H        4. The project would: (i) provide grants to
documentation is available, the scarcity of           community School Committees for buying
teaching and learning materials in                   learning materials for their preschools; (ii)
indigenous languages could threaten the               support the generation of new materials at the
educational objectives of the pilot.                  Curriculum Development Unit to be transmitted
directly to the school via computer connectivity;
and (iii) support the operation of a Vernacular
Development Committee. The latter would
promote the development of educational
materials from the linguistic and other scholarly
research at the Vanuatu Cultural Center,
University of the South Pacific, and the
international academic community.
5. Bislama, the Vanuatu pidgin fast         H         5. The project would support language and
spreading as the national language, could             policy research for guidance on this sensitive
obviate the use of indigenous languages.              topic.
Further, because Bislama borrows heavily
from English, the acquisition of English
language skills by Bislama speakers could
be retarded by linguistic interference.
6. Since the use of indigenous languages    H         6. Experience will be gained from this pilot
is limited to year 1 of primary school, the           project which will help guide decisions about the
gains deriving from acquisition of literacy           appropriate mix of indigenous languages and
in one's mother tongue may be limited.               international languages in the future.
7. The model being propounded in the        H         7. Costs will be carefully monitored during the
pilot may prove to be too expensive to                implementation of the pilot, and enrollment and
achieve Vanuatu's goals of universal basic           financial projections will be refined. The project
education of eight years and improved                 has been designed as a pilot precisely to allow
education quality.                                    one model to be tested before it is generalized
throughout the country.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
As in many other countries, the issue of the language to be used in formal education is sensitive
and emotionally charged. In the case of Bislama, Vanuatu's fast-growing pidgin, among nationals
of Vanuatu and among international friends of Vanuatu, both ambivalence and advocacy are sharp
and mixed. On the one hand, the language continues to develop, standardize, and attract more and
more speakers. On the other hand, many deplore Bislama's perceived negative interference on the
acquisition of English language skills among ni-Vanuatu, the gains of Bislama at the expense of
Vanuatu's indigenous Austronesian languages, and Bislama's still inadequacy for use in higher
levels of discourse: science, law, literature. In the context of this project, to ignore the emergent
language is to turn a blind eye to a stark linguistic reality in the country. To give Bislama, already
a popular language, even more prominence in the project could jeopardize Vanuatu's efforts to
preserve its indigenous languages. The project's approach is measured: Bislama will be tested as
an indigenous language for preschool and year 1 education, and Bislama grammar and spelling
- 25 -



(orthography) will be taught as a subject in secondary years 7 and 8. This cautious treatment
should protect the project not only from academic controversy but also possibly from reprisal in
the event of a change in the political power share and a corresponding change in policy
preference.
The proposal to use indigenous languages in formal education is very popular among virtually all
groups of nationals. Others fear that its use may hinder children's acquisition of English or French
by reducing the number of years in which children learn in these languages. Evidence from
elsewhere suggests (i) that becoming literate in one's mother tongue speeds and improves the
acquisition of a second language, and (ii) that it is not the number of years during which a child
studies a language but rather the initial ease with which the child first becomes literate and the
sense of self-confidence the child acquires when first exposed to formal education.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1.1    The Project Management Unit has been established, including the appointment of the Project
Director, Procurement Specialist, and Financial Management Specialist;
1.2   The Project Management Manual has been adopted by MEYS
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Technical Covenants:
2.1       The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the
Project within its Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MEYS) the Project Management
Unit, headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with staff in sufficient numbers including a
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, and assigned with such funds,
staffing, facilities and responsibilities as shall be required to assist in the overall carrying out of
the Project.
2.2       The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project within MEYS the
Curriculum Development Unit, headed by a qualified and experienced officer and assigned
with such funds, staffing, facilities and responsibilities as shall be required to assist in the
carrying out the curriculum development activities of the Project.
2.3       The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project a Committee on
Vernacular Languages chaired by the Director General of MEYS or his designee with
representatives, inter alia, of the Vanuatu Cultural Center, Vanuatu Teachers College,
University of the South Pacific, National Council of Churches, and the Summer Institute of
Linguistics for purposes of providing overall guidance in the carrying out the vernacular
language development activities of the Project.
2.4       The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure until the
- 26 -



completion of the Project the effective and efficient operation of the Vanuatu Teachers
College and Vanuatu Cultural Center.
2.5      The Borrower, through MEYS, shall adopt and thereafter cause the Project
Maaagement Unit to apply the Project Management Manual in the carrying out of the Project.
2.6      The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that land
and other assets required for carrying out the Project or any part thereof shall be either
voluntarily provided for by the owners of such land and other assets in the benefiting
community, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, or be acquired under open
and voluntary market transactions.
2.7      For purposes of carrying out an educational improvement activity (construction or
repair of preschool or primary teaching facilities, teacher housing facilities, and pedagogic
training measures to improve education quality), the Borrower shall make available to a
School Committee or School Council, as the case may be, a grant or grants under an
agreement or agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the School Committee
or School Council, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, that shall include:
(i) the selection of a School Committee or School Council and approval of an
educational improvement activity shall be done pursuant to the provisions of the
Project Management Manual;
(ii) the aggregate grant amount per School Committee or School Council shall not
exceed Vt 5,000,000 and may be provided in cash and in kind;
(iii) the proceeds of the grant(s) shall be used to finance exclusively: (a) the
building materials and community labor directly associated with the construction or
repair of preschool and primary teaching facilities, respectively; (b) construction of
housing facilities for secondary school teachers; and (c) educational materials and
equipment, and training programs associated with the relevant educational
improvement activity;
(iv) the proceeds of the grant(s) shall not be used to finance local taxes and duties
or the cost of leasing or purchasing land therefor; and
(v) works and goods under an educational imnprovement activity shall be procured
in accordance with community participation procedures for goods and works.
2.8      The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the grant agreements in such a
- 27 -



manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any grant agreement or any provision thereof.
2.9       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend,
abrogate or waive the Project Management Manual.
2.10      The BorroWer shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the
Association, on or about April 30, 2003 a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) review with the Association, by June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Association
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
2.11      The Borrower shall prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2004 a report of the
accomplishment of the implementation of the Project, setting out plans for carrying out the
activities initiated under the Project after the Project period.
Financial Covenants:
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
- 28 -



documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
F0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Oi 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
onso F. de Guzman         Jou  Maure  Law                       Klaus Rohland
mear Leader                     Sector ManagerlDirector           Country ManagerlDirector
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
:~ ~~e  ; ;    :tI:Performance:0:V      ;Q: 
Hierarchy of ObjWetives           Indicaors        f :M itoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Children of the relevant age   By about the completion of   Ministry of Education, Youth
group successfully go through the reform (I5th year), 80%    & Sports (MEYS) annual
the reformed basic education  of relevant age group attain 8 report to Parliament
system.                   years of basic education.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
A reformed basic education   By the end of the follow-on   MEYS annual report to  MEYS budget can be
system performs in an     project (8th year):        Parliament                 maintained at 25% of the
effective manner throughout  _% of 4-year olds enrolled in                      national budget; primary
Vanuatu.                  preschool                                             education share can be
Grades 7-8 offered at __/,J of                       maintained at 50% of MEYS
target locations                                     budget
_% of schools offering
grades 7-8 assume school
maintenance costs
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Effective and replicable basic  Education in the relevant
education system is       indigenous languages
successfully piloted in rural  introduced in all pilot schools.
locations: (i) preschools for   All relevant NGOs or
children aged 4 and 5 in  churches in pilot communities
vernacular languages; (ii)    are actively involved in pilot.
Basic education (primary
grades 1-6, secondary years
7-8) in English or French.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. The most efficient     1. I At end of primary year 1, 1. Specific evaluative study    1. As active partners of
mechanism for community,   children learning in their own conducted by project  MEYS in basic education,
and NGO participation in    indigenous language perform  management             NGOs and churches can
preschool education, primary  better than those in contro:l                     deliver the services
school grades 1-6, and junior  schools.                                         adequately, at an acceptable
secondary years 7-8 is     1.2 Selected pilot schools                           level of quality, and at
running in pilot communities. offer secondary years 7-8.                        reasonable cost.
- 30 -



2. A feasible, operational  2.1 Relevant curriculum  2. Project periodic and annual 2. Australia, China, Japan,
system (using lessons learned materials in science and  progress report to MEYS  France, NZ, UK would also
in the pilot) is in place for    Bislama for secondary years                    support curriculum, teacher
replicating the piloted reformn. 7-8 are in selected schools.                   training, education,
2.2 Teachers in all pilot                            management for preschool
communities have attended                            and basic education, rather
project training.                                    than leave them for World
2.3 MEYS monitoring system                           Bank financing only.
reports leaming outcomes to
Provincial Education Offices.
3. Technical support for  3.1 Grant proposals from   3.1 - 3.3 Project procurement 3. The European Union
education reform is in place.  communities are processed on consultant reports  secondary school construction
time.                                                program is consistent with the
reformed education structure
as piloted.
3.2 All construction and
renovation are completed on
time at agreed quality.
3.3 School computers,
running on solar power, are
used by teachers.
3.4 Book-pupil ratio achieved 3.4 Project periodic and
in previous Bank project is   annual report to MEYS
maintained at 1:1 in
mathematics.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Education access and    Grants, civil works,      Community: Formative
quality in the pilot project   equipment, furniture,  evaluation reports from
.1I Conduct annual        materials, technical       monitoring system;
consultations with        assistance: US$2.23 million.  engineering progress reports;
communities.                                         periodic audit of expenditures
1.2 Support community works                          on maintenance; audit report
for preschool construction,                          of communities' financial
renovation of primary schools,                       records
construction of teacher                              NGOs: Periodic progress and
housing.                                             audit reports to project
1.3 Provide grants for                               management.
school-proposed quality
subprojects.
1.4 Support establishment of
preschools by NGOs.
1.5 Equip schools for quality:
computers, solar power, radio,
video recorders.
1.6 Provide textbooks, other
learning materials.
1.7 Construct comrnunity day
junior secondary schools.
- 31 -



2. Capacity building for    Grants, materials, training,   Curriculum Development   2.1 Bislama would not
replicating the pilot project  technical assistance, civil  Unit (CDU) periodic report to  overwhelm vernaculars or
2.1 Support language        works, maintenance and      project management, annual  retard acquisition of English
research and educational    operation: US$1.58 million    progress report to MEYS.    language skills.
materials development by                                                            2.2 Vernacular materials can
NGOs.                                                                               be developed of adequate
2.2 Develop vemacular                                                               curricular content, in a timely
curriculum for preschool,                                                           fashion, of acceptable quality.
primary grades 1-6,
community secondary years
7-8.
2.3 Train teachers in content,
pedagogy, effective
instruction in vernacular.
2.4 Support policy-program
planning, school mapping,
facilities surveys, monitoring
and evaluation, physical
facilities improvement.
-32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Development Objective & Design
The proposed project aims to identify an efficient, replicable, and sustainable model for the
provision of instruction in vernacular languages and in English and French, in rural areas of
Vanuatu. Specifically, the project would test in selected pilot schools whether the Government
and other interested stakeholders - parents, communities, churches and other NGOs (especially
those engaged in schooling or language research), and international donors - can work together
to introduce successfully preschool and primary education in vernacular languages, improve
education quality, and expand educational coverage to junior secondary year 8.
Pilot schools under the project would have the following principal features (table):
1. Language of instruction in the vernacular during the first three years of education, when
children are aged 4-6. The first two years of education in vemacular languages would be
at preschool, the third year will be year 1 of the regular primary school.
2. Language of instruction in English or French during the next five years of primary school,
years 2-6 and continuation of the vernacular as the language of instruction in the subject
areas of science and social science.
3. Language of instruction in English or French in the two years of community secondary day
school, years 7-8 and continuation of the vernacular in science and social science.
Age    Grade              Level                   Language of Instruction
4    (lower)           Preschool                Vernacular
5    (upper)           Preschool                Vemacular
6    Year I            Primary                  Vemacular
7    Year 2            Primary                  English or French, with science & social science in vemacular
8   Year 3             Primary                  English or French, with science & social science in vernacular
9    Year 4            Primary                  English or French, with science & social science in vemacular
10   Year 5            Primary                  English or French, with science & social science in vemacular
I I   Year 6           Primary                  English or French, with science & social science in vemacular
12   Year 7            Community Secondary      English or French, with science & social science in vernacular
13   Year 8            Comrunity Secondary      English or French, with science & social science in venacular
The criteria for the choice of vernacular languages in the project are the following: (i) the
language has a substantial number of speakers; (ii) the language already has a written grarnmar
and dictionary; (iii) texts had been written in the language; and (iv) it is possible to conduct the
pilot in two schools: one using English as language of instruction in subsequent years, the other
using French.
- 33 -



The use of Bislama as a vemacular would be piloted in two schools on the outskirts of
Port Vila, where the community comprises migrants from many of Vanuatu's outer islands,
numerous mother tongues are spoken, and the only common language is Bislama. One school will
use English as the language of instruction in primary years 2-6, the other French. In the new
community secondary schools, standardized Bislama spelling (orthography) and grammar would
be taught as a subject.
A small number of control schools with characteristics comparable to the pilot schools
would be selected, including schools that introduced instruction in the vernacular beginning 1999.
No project interventions would be introduced in these schools. They would be monitored in
parallel, and their data will be compared with project schools.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.35 million
Part A: Expanding Access and Improvina Quality throuch the Pilot
To provide access to primary school for all children of the relevant age group and achieve
efficiency in that provision, the proposed pilot project would introduce instruction in the
vernacular during the two years of preschool, in year 1 of primary school, in science and social
science of years 2-6 of primary school. To make the provision of primary education economical
and sustainable, the pilot would engage the participation of the school community and form
partnerships with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), including churches. To improve
education quality, the pilot would support greater parent-teacher collaboration and provide school
equipment and materials. To extend access, the pilot would establish community secondary
schools for years 7 and 8.
i. Community Participation
(a) Annual consultations. Communities that would participate in the pilot have been selected
from areas the vernacular languages of which have been chosen as the languages of instruction.
(See criteria for the selection of languages, above.) The pilot conmmunities would be visited, and
their suggestions would be sought on actions they would take to ensure the success of the project
in their location. This consultative process would ensure that the views and interests of the
intended beneficiaries are fully taken into account. The consultation would be conducted annually
by officials and staff of MEYS. The collaboration of NGOs such as the Summer Institute of
Linguistics (SIL) and religious organizations such as the Directorate of Catholic Education would
be sought in undertaking the consultations. The recommendations derived from such meetings
with the community would be formally reported to MEYS which would require the project to
respond, as appropriate. The project would support the cost of operational travel and subsistence
of MEYS and NGO personnel during the annual consultative visits to the pilot communities.
At the education levels covered by the project, community participation would be
encouraged by offering the following tasks for community members to undertake themselves: (i)
building or repair of preschool classrooms; (ii) renovation of classrooms of primary school years
1-6; and (iii) building housing for teachers of the community secondary day school years 7-8. To
- 34 -



support this activity, the project would provide grants to the school committee of school council,
a local community group usually composed of parents of school-going children.
(b) Construction or repair of preschools. The proposed project would take advantage the
strong relationship MEYS has with the community. For about 14 communities selected by the
project following the above criteria, one- or two-room preschool buildings would be built or
repaired, following project-approved traditional architecture, building methods, and local
materials. The structure would be erected on community-owned land, labor would be provided by
the community and supported by a project grant to the school community or school council, and
materials would be donated by the comrnunity or provided by the project.
(c) Repair of primary years 1-6 classrooms. About 42 classrooms of the pilot schools would
be renovated. Labor would be provided by the community and supported by a project grant.
Architectural plans (where needed), construction materials, supervision, and classroom furniture
would be provided by the project. The maintenance manual developed during the European
Union-supported renovation of primary schools and construction of secondary schools would be
used in the pilot schools. The project would support the costs associated with the purchase of
construction materials, the direct cost of supervision (travel and per-diem of field staff), the
purchase of furniture, and technical assistance.
(d) Construction of housing for community secondary school teachers. On the site of each of the
10 pilot community secondary day schools, two teachers houses would be built, following local
norms. Labor for the construction would be provided by the community, supported by a project
grant, and materials would be donated by the community or provided by the project.
2. Quality at School Level
To release the social and intellectual energy potential in cooperation and participation in
basic education, a "whole school improvement process" would be introduced in the pilot schools.
In physical terms, the process would involve creating in the classroom an environment conducive
to learning: furniture and interior spaces would be changed or rearranged, to reflect a departure
from the concept of individual learners relating to the teacher in a hierarchical relationship, toward
a sense of cooperation and shared learning. This would be carried out under the classroom repair
subcomponent of the project (above).
In social terns, the process would require parents' and other community members'
involvement in assisting their children to learn as well as collaborative relationships among
teachers working under the active leadership of the head teacher or principal. Teachers and school
principals would be encouraged to work with their school committee or school council to prepare
proposals for undertaking specific activities for school improvement. The proposals would be
submitted to the PMU for evaluation. The project would support the expenditures of meritorious
projects and administrative expenses (materials, travel, communication) associated with the
promotion of the quality initiative, training in proposal preparation, and the evaluation of
proposals.
3. Partnerships with NGOs
The Government does not operate any preschools. The Preschool Association of Vanuatu
(Pri-Skul Asosiesen blong Vanuatu), the country's leading private, not-for-profit NGO, is an
- 35 -



umbrella organization which provides guidance and support to two-year community preschools
run by the community largely from contributions. The association reaches about one-third of
children in the 4-5 age group. During the 1999/2000 schoolyear under a one-year agreement with
MEYS, the association received support for the training and supervision of teachers who are
usually paid by the community. This collaboration has led to the MEYS adoption of a policy on
November 16, 2000 and issuance of guidelines officially sanctioning the establishment and
operation of early child development centers (preschools) by the private sector. The project would
build on the success of that initial collaboration by supporting a renewed agreement with better
defined objectives, nature and scope of work, and educational expectations.
Under that renewed agreement, the association would be provided with technical
assistance to operate the preschools in the pilot communities, using the curriculum developed by
the association and the vernacular of the community as the language of instruction. The
association may also be provided with instructional resources, including toys and activity kits
which would not be provided by the project. The learning materials to be provided by the project
would focus on preparation for reading in the vernacular. Teachers would be given training in
effective teaching in the vernacular and in subject content, with emphasis on reading readiness for
grade 1 of primary school. The project would support the cost of learning materials, teacher
training, and technical assistance.
4. Educational Equipment & Learning Materials
(a) Digital technology. In this Infornation Age, Vanuatu's teachers and students should have
the tools with which to access and process data as their counterparts do elsewhere in the world.
For teachers to become self-motivated and commnitted learners whose own improvement would
be reflected in the improvement of the learning of children in their classroom, the following
interventions would be introduced: (i) Teachers would be provided with computers, software,
peripherals, and connection to the worldwide web and trained on their proper use. (ii)
Maintenance support would be provided. (iii) Electricity would be provided by a solar power
system. (iv) A video recorder and a library of education videos would be provided for each
school, and teachers would be trained in their use. (v) A radio would be provided to each teacher
of sufficient quality so that broadcasts in the teaching language used by each teacher may be
accessed regularly and easily. (vi) Educational material and resources developed at the CDU
would be electronically transmitted to the school. The specifications for computers and other
electronic equipment to be procured would emphasize resistance to damage; the equipment would
be installed in locations safely away from damp and dust. The project would support the purchase
of equipment and materials, provision of training and technical assistance on effective use and
preventive maintenance.
(b) Printed materials. To support the curricular innovations being introduced by the project,
the pilot schools would be provided with the needed instructional materials. For teachers' use,
encyclopedias, dictionaries, and other references in the form of paper (books) or digital media
(disks) will be provided to each school library in English or French. For students' use, the
following would be provided: (i) age-graduated children's encyclopedias, dictionaries, and other
references; (ii) "book flood"--the prescribed textbooks for each subject and grade at the ratio of
one set of textbooks per student (1: 1) and samples of textbook series in English and French from
overseas publishers; and (iii) "book barrels"--age-differentiated children's reading books circulated
- 36 -



among pilot schools. The provision of print educational materials would be managed by the CDU.
The project would support the direct costs associated with the procurement of the materials and
their distribution as well as administrative costs incurred at the CDU and technical assistance for
the program.
5. Community Secondary School Construction
To expand coverage in junior secondary education, about 10 community secondary day
schools would be built, each for about 70 year 7 and 8 students, 35 in each year. The school
would consist of two classrooms, each of 75 sq.m., constructed as one unit. A library and
electronic media provision will be part of one classroom, and a science laboratory provision, part
of the other. The school would be staffed by two teachers who will be jointly responsible for its
governance. The school would be located at the geographic center of a catchment area, which
may be on the site of the project primary school. Prototype building plans have been prepared.
The project would support the cost of construction, furnishing, equipping the school as well as
associated technical assistance (architectural design, construction supervision), and provision of
learning materials.
Project Component 2- US$1.40 million
Part B: Capacity Buildina for Replicatinc the Pilot
The proposed project would develop the ability of MEYS to replicate the pilot. This
capacity enhancement would be achieved largely through the provision of technical assistance to
the following key activities at the central level where educational impact is strategic.
1. Vernacular Language Development
(a) Technical guidance. To provide oversight to the project's vernacular education program,
a Committee on Vernacular Languages would be established. Among other things, the committee
would advise the project on matters of language research, educational materials development, and
training of teachers on effective teaching in the vernacular. The Chairman of the Committee
would be nominated by the Director General of MEYS and would include in its membership other
governmental organizations (the Vanuatu Cultural Center), institutions of higher learning
(Vanuatu Teachers College, University of the South Pacific, University of New Caledonia), and
NGOs (Summer Institute of Linguistics). The Vernacular Development Committee would have an
oversight and policy-setting role. Direct specific responsibility for each language would be
assigned to institutions or individuals, to facilitate the bridging between linguistic research and
education. A working papers series consisting of linguistic works which have direct educational
purposes would be published by the Vanuatu Cultural Center with project support.
(b) Language research & development of materials in vernacular. To mobilize the knowledge
and skills available in the field, educators and linguists affiliated with NGOs (e.g., SIL,
VRDTCA), other governmental agencies (e.g., Vanuatu Cultural Center), or academic institutions
(e.g., the University of the South Pacific, University of New Caledonia) would be encouraged to
conduct research on transforming technical research on vernacular languages into simplified
materials for teachers' school use. Among the materials needed are reading books ("big books"
and shell books), translations of selected year I materials, dictionaries and grammars for each
- 37 -



language, and materials on general secular topics. The latter would demonstrate to teachers and
children that their vernacular has practical usefulness. While curriculum development would
remain the responsibility of the Curriculum Development Unit (CDU) of MEYS, qualified
individuals either directly or through NGOs would be contracted to provide the needed expertise.
(See curriculum development, below.) The project would support the costs associated with the
provision of technical assistance, printing of materials, and incremental operational cost (travel,
subsistence) incurred by the Committee on Vemacular Languages.
2. Curriculum Development
To achieve educational efficiency, the current school curriculum would be modified to
reflect the following innovations in the pilot schools: (i) use of the vernacular as principal
language of instruction at the initial levels of formal education; (ii) use of Bislama orthography at
the junior secondary level. Curriculum improvement would be undertaken in the grade level and
subject area indicated:
(a) Preschool years 1-2. The preschool curriculum, currently used in preschools operated by
the Preschool Association of Vanuatu for children aged 4 and 5, reviewed and adopted by the
National Commission on Education in late 2000, would be used in project preschools. Because of
the critical importance of language transition in bilingual education, during the first year of
implementation of the project, curriculum issues and options in language transition would be
identified through the project's monitoring system. This would allow for the adoption of
appropriate policy and other measures in time for the official introduction of vernacular
instruction during the second year of implementation.
(b) Primary school years 1-6. The curriculum for year I would be modified as needed for
instruction in the vernacular. The present mathematics books in English or French may be used as
material in class although instruction would be in the vernacular. Using those materials would
provide the needed early exposure of the children to the written and spoken forms of those
metropolitan languages, experience critical for children's later "bridging" or "transiting" to those
languages of wider communication. Science and social science, for which there are workbooks,
not textbooks, would be taught in the vernacular. The teachers guides in these subjects, provided
in English or French under PASEP (the Primary and Secondary Education Project financed by
Credit 1964-VAN), would be the teachers' primary resource.
(c) Community secondary years 7-8. The development of community secondary day schools,
an important innovation of the project, is eagerly awaited by communities. In this regard, the
specific objective of the project is to provide a program of study developed especially to meet the
needs of children who would spend their adult lives as subsistence fanners, the way of life of 70%
of all ni-Vanuatu, outside of the urban centers of Port Vila and Luganville, outside of the
developing centers on Malakula and Tanna. The expected curricula and the teaching-leaming
materials in all subjects that would proceed from them would be expected to provide a more
relevant, more practical education.
The curricula to be developed would include language, mathematics, science, and social
science. A technology curriculum would bring together fields of experience previously classified
as woodwork and home economics, to develop a sense among students of the value of nonformal,
lifelong learning. A separate curriculum for the teaching of an orthographically and grammatically
- 38 -



correct Bislama would also be developed.
A project task team would be organized in the Curriculum Development Unit to lead in
undertaking the curriculum task. The Vanuatu Rural Development Training Centers Association,
(VRDTCA), an NGO offering a similar nonformal program for adolescents who have not been
selected to the years 7-10 Junior Secondary Schools, would be contracted to collaborate in
developing the needed curricula. The project envisions that completers from the community
secondary day school who need to continue their education could do so at one of the rural
training centers (RTC) for which VRDTCA is the umbrella organization.
Curriculum work would be undertaken either by local and regional educators, individually
or in teams, to be organized at the CDU at Malapoa or by NGOs, including religious
denominations, civic associations, and institutions of higher learning, which would be contracted
by the project for the purpose. Curriculum materials produced by the project would be subject to
review and approval of the National Curriculum Commission. The project would support the cost
of the curriculum development contracts, attendant operating costs at the CDU (supplies and
materials) for the duration of the contracts, and local and regional expert services under the
technical assistance progran.
3. Teacher Training
The teacher training program would improve language and communication skills of
teachers, in the vernacular; enhance their mastery of subject content; and irnprove pedagogical
skills. Appropriate training would be provided to the following groups of teachers: (i) preschool
teachers recruited by the Preschool Association of Vanuatu (from the community but usually
untrained), in preparation for reading (prereading) and instruction in the vernacular; (ii) teachers
of primary year 1 who would teach in the vernacular; (iii) teachers of primary school years 2-6, in
the subject areas of science and social science in the vernacular; and (iv) teachers assigned to
years 7 and 8 of the new community secondary day schools, in science and social science in the
vernacular, the use of standard Bislama orthography, and in the content of and pedagogy for the
other subject areas of junior secondary education taught in English or French. Teaching
assigrrnents and selection of teachers for training would be determined by nomination of school
heads (or by the preschool association) to the Provincial Education Officers (PEOs) who would
verify the qualifications of nominees. All nominations would be approved by the Director General.
All teachers in project schools would have gone through formal preservice training at
Vanuatu Teachers College (VTC) or elsewhere. Under the project, extended inservice courses
during the long vacation would be provided to meet project requirements for the following: (i)
primary year I teachers; (ii) the teachers of science and social science in years 2-6; and (iii) the
teachers assigned to years 7-8 of the community secondary day schools. The training courses
would be developed and taught at VTC. Such additional professional expertise as may be required
would be recruited as individual short term technical assistance. Preschool teachers would also
have received training through the Vanuatu Preschool Association prior to joining the project.
They would also be sent to training courses over the long vacation, to equip them with the new
skills required for the project. The courses would be provided through the association. The
project would support the cost of developing the training programs; and the cost of sending
teachers to the training programs.
- 39 -



4. Project & Sector Management
A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be organized and attached to the MEYS Policy
& Planning Service of the whose director would be designated Project Director. The PMU would
be staffed with MEYS personnel and supported by specialist-consultants from the project's
technical assistance program. Managing the project at the MEYS Policy & Planning Service
would provide that unit with the capacity to manage further pilots or expand the benefits of the
pilot to more language communities in other provinces. The termns of reference of key staff of the
PMU have been prepared.
(a) Policy and program studies. To refine the provisions of the Education Master Plan drafted
with IDA assistance in 1998-99, an overall education investment program would be prepared and
a framework agreement for the sector would be developed. These adjustments to the master plan
would be discussed with the international donor community and submitted for approval of the
Government. Enrollment and other education statistics would also be compiled and education
growth scenarios would be built using appropriate software including that developed by
UNESCO. The information on education demand (enrollment projections) and supply
(prospective investment by the development partners) would be used to update the information in
the master plan, review the relevance of the plan's recommendations, and prepare the follow-on
education project. The principal investigators of the above studies are expected to be ni-Vanuatu
or regionally based social scientists contracted through the project's technical assistance program
and working with key staff of, and in order to build capacity in, the MEYS Policy & Planning
Service. Where necessary, staff would be provided with training for managing the above study
tasks. The project would support the cost of technical assistance and staff training for the studies.
(b) School mapping. Preschool locations would be mapped, redundant primary schools (i.e.,
schools with overlapping catchment areas and therefore low enrollments) would be identified for
possible consolidation, and locations serving the greatest number of primary schools for expansion
into years 7-8 would be determined. The goal would be to achieve efficiencies in the
preschool-primary-secondary feeder school system. This microplanning exercise would also reveal
if a second project in the same language areas as the first project schools could be implemented
without further language development work and thereby realize some savings for the
Government. The activity would be undertaken by the MEYS Policy & Planning Service using as
baseline the data gathered in earlier surveys, notably the MEYS primary and secondary school
study of 1999. The project would support the materials, travel, and subsistence cost of the staff
on trips to the outer islands for the mapping.
- 40 -



(c) Site, facility, resource surveys. Prior to any construction or renovation, a physical
facilities survey would be undertaken, to: (i) inventory the state of repair of buildings of each pilot
school; (ii) deternine the scope of work to bring the facilities to the level that would enable the
project's education quality measures to proceed; (iii) verify land ownership; and (iv) identify
suitable sites for construction. The survey would be contracted to architectural or engineering
individuals or firms. Simple architectural plans with easy-to-follow construction details would be
provided to the communities building preschools or renovating primary school classrooms.
Architectural plans would be provided for the construction of junior secondary classrooms. The
project would support contract costs associated with the survey and related technical assistance.
(d) Monitoring and evaluation. The indicators of project performance would be reviewed and
adapted for the proposed project. Based on information to be gathered periodically from the pilot
schools of the project, calculations would be made of the following: (i) the cost of providing a
secondary school place under PASEP (Credit No. 1964-VAN) compared with the cost of such a
place in the project's proposed expansion into years 7-8 in community secondary day schools; (ii)
increment or percentage that the places provided through the comrnunity secondary day schools
would add to the national coverage provided through the existing junior secondary schools
offering grades 7-10; (iii) the magnitude of reduction in public costs (no boarding) and in private
costs (no travel) the pilot would achieve; (iv) recurrent costs, especially teachers salaries and
school operating expenses; (v) comparison of education outputs between children in project
schools and children in nonproject schools. Further, periodic evaluative studies would be
undertaken of the project's vemacular education program, curriculum development, and teacher
training. The monitoring and evaluation tasks would be the responsibility of the MEYS Policy &
Planning Service which would be supported by technical assistance.
(e) Office for Policy & Planning Service. To provide suitable accommodation, immediately for
the management and operation of the project, and over the longer term, for the new tasks to be
assumed by the Policy & Planning Service, a small office building would be built on the MEYS
campus and provided with furniture, computers, and other office equipment.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Local        Foreign         Tota     :
0:j:0:M:jec (iost B:y Componentl                       US $rn0IJiUgion    US t0$milfliori :US lJ:$milliori
Component 1: Access & Quality in Pilot                          0.88            1.22          2.10
Component 2: Capacity Building                                  0.52           0.73           1.25
Total Baseline Cost                                              1.40           1.95          3.35
Physical Contingencies                                         0.12           0.16           0.28
Price Contingencies                                            0.05           0.07           0.12
Total Project Costs                  1.57           2.18          3.75
Total Financing Required                   1.57           2.18           3.75
I             Foreign        Total
:Pr oj:ct i  Cost :y Ca*tgor   :::  0 i:LV 00::: ::: ?US million    USSmiltion    US A "$miion
(1) Works                                                         0.65            0.25           0.90
(2) Goods                                                         0.17            0.88           1.05
(3) Services --Consultants                                        0.19            0.93           1.12
(4) Training                                                      0.25            0.02           0.27
(5) Grants                                                        0.27            0.10           0.37
(6) Maintenance & Operation                                       0.04            0.00           0.04
Total Project Costs        1.57            2.18           3.75
Total Financing Rquired          1.57            2.18           3.75
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 3.75 (UJS$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 93.33% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 42 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.    The main innovation to be tested under the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit is whether: (i)
a new system using indigenous languages in preschool (two years) and year 1 can be introduced
successfully in Vanuatu's school system; and (ii) the pilot would be a workable approach for the gradual
expansion of capacity at secondary years 7 and 8.
2.     The proposed Learning and Innovation Credit will last four years, of which the first year will be
devoted to planning and preparation. In the second year of the Learning and Innovation Credit, a first
cohort will enter and complete the first year of kindergarten in the project's selected schools. In the third
year of the project, this cohort will enter and complete the second year of kindergarten. In the fourth and
final year of the project, the cohort will enter and complete year 1. Therefore, at the end of the project, it
would theoretically be possible to compare year 1 graduates who have been learning primarily in their
native indigenous language to other children of similar background who have been learning in English or
French. To evaluate the effectiveness of using indigenous languages in basic education, however, it will be
necessary to compare a cohort which has completed basic education under the new system with a control
group who has completed basic education under the existing system. In particular, a comparison will need
to be made between the two groups in terms of learning outcomes (as measured by scores in mathematics
and English or French in the year 6 examination) and internal efficiency (repetition and drop-out rates).
Although a comparison could be made after year 1, no widely used evaluation mechanism presently exists
in Vanuatu for comparisons at this level, and a meaningful comparison will require at least six years of
basic education. It is therefore outside the scope of the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit to
compare the benefits and costs of using indigenous languages in basic education. It is proposed, however,
that monitoring and evaluation mechanisms and procedures be developed under the Learning and
Innovation Credit which can be used to compare, over the longer term, the learning outcomes and efficiency
rates of schoolchildren in the new system with the learning outcomes and efficiency rates of schoolchildren
in the existing system.
3.    At present, Vanuatu's education system aspires to provide basic education of six years to all
children of the relevant age group. At the end of year 6, an examination is administered which selects
which children (approximately 40% of the students completing year 6) are able to fill the limited number of
spaces available in year 7. The Government wishes to expand enrollments in years 7 and 8 in conjunction
with the innovation (use of indigenous languages) being introduced at the beginning of basic education,
with the goal of gradually enlarging the definition of "basic education" to mean provision of years 1-8
(instead of the present definition, which is years 1-6).
4.    At present, years 7 and 8 are offered at boarding institutions in different parts of the country,
located relatively far away from most children's homes. These institutions, called Junior Secondary
Schools, offer years 7 through 10. They are of a more sophisticated construction standard than are the
primary schools (years I through 6) located relatively close to most children's homes. The provision of
years 7 through 10 is expensive for both the Government and for parents. The Government builds the
schools and thus incurs the capital cost as well as paying teachers' salaries and other recurrent costs.
Parents pay tuition and boarding fees as well as travel costs between home and school at the beginning and
end of each term.
5.    The Government proposes to use a more cost-effective way of expanding enrollments in years 7
and 8. Although Junior Secondary Schools will continue to exist, most students completing year 6 would
- 43 -



attend years 7 and 8 in new Community Secondary Day Schools built closer to most children's homes, for
the most part at the site of existing primary schools. The standard of construction would be closer to that
of the primary schools. No boarding facilities would be built. Grants would be provided to the
communities to build teachers' houses which normally are built by the Government at Junior Secondary
Schools.
6.    Although a small country in terms of both area and population, Vanuatu is extremely diverse in
terms of ethnic groups and languages. It is hard for children (and adults) traveling to a different part of the
country to find lodging, since commercial provision of lodging is limited to the two larger towns and to
tourist resorts. Boarding facilities are thus necessary for all students who travel very far from home. On
the other hand, children (and adults) who stay close to home can usually find lodging with relatives or
friends of the same ethnic group. Schools built close to the students' homes therefore do not require
boarding facilities. The proposed new Community Secondary Day Schools will therefore require fewer
square meters of space per student than the traditional Junior Secondary Schools.
7.    The benefits in terms of learning outcomes of the two types of schools, Junior Secondary Schools
and Community Secondary Day Schools, are not known, since no Community Secondary Day Schools yet
exist. Under the Innovation and Learning Credit, evaluation mechanisms and procedures, including a year
8 completion examination, would be developed which will allow the respective learning outcomes to be
measured and compared. It is believed that the benefits will be similar. In fact, in a nearby country with
similar racial and ethnic makeup (Papua New Guinea), learning outcomes of students at Papua New
Guinea's equivalent of the Secondary Day Schools are superior to those of students at Papua New Guinea's
equivalent of the Junior Secondary Schools. The reason is not known, but local observers believe that the
improved learning achievements derive from the fact that youth who are still relatively young remain closer
to home and their parents and are learning in an environment which requires fewer adjustments than does
moving to a location where the culture and language are quite different and where they seldom see their
parents.
8.    An earlier World Bank-supported education project in Vanuatu provided additional places,
including boarding, in years 7 and 8 (as well as in year 9 and 10) in new Junior Secondary Schools of the
traditional model. Information on capital costs, total and per student, is available for Rensarie Junior
Secondary School, built in 1992 on the island of Malakula. Once adjusted for inflation, these costs can be
compared to estimated capital costs for places in years 7 and 8 in the proposed Community Secondary Day
Schools. A local architect who was Project Manager for the earlier project has calculated that construction
costs in year (Vanuatu's currency) have increased and will increase by 50% over the period 1992-2001.
9.    The costs of providing places in years 7 and 8 at Community Secondary Day Schools are estimated
at Vt 13,500,000 per school, as follows:
(a) 150 square meters of student space at Vt 65,000 per square meter equals Vt 9,750,000;
(b) a grant to the community of Vt 500,000 for the construction of two staff houses, each of 50 sq.m.;
(c) provision of furniture and equipment at Vt 15,000/sq.m. times 150 sq.m. equals Vt 2,250,000; and
(d) 8% for supervision (an additional Vt 780,000 for government construction, Vt 40,000 for
community construction, and Vt 180,000 for friniture and equipment, totaling Vt 1,000,000).
- 44 -



10.   Comparative data are shown in the following table:
Rensarie Junior Secondary    Community
Costs                         School, Malakula              Secondary Day
(vatu)                        (Actual 1992)                 School
(Estimate 2001)
Construction cost             277,000,000                   11,070,000
Furniture and equipment       28,000,000                    2,430,000
Total                         305,000,000                   13,500,000
Adjusted Rensarie costs: 50%  457,500,000
estimated increase in costs
1992/2001
Total building area (sq.m.)   3,644                         250
Cost per sq.m.                125,549                       54,000
No. of students               280                           70
Sq.m. per student             13                            3.57
Capital cost per student      1,633,929                     192,857
11.   A Community Secondary Day School will therefore be able to provide a place to a student in year
7 or 8 about 8.5 times as efficiently as was done under the previous World-Bank-assisted education project
in Vanuatu (1,633,929/192,856 = 8.5).
12.   It is estimated that recurrent costs to parents will also be substantially less when their children in
years 7 and 8 attend the proposed new Community Secondary Day Schools instead of the existing Junior
Secondary Schools. The tuition fee, Vt 15,000, will be the same in both types of school, but there will be
differences in boarding and travel costs.
13.   Students attending Junior Secondary Schools pay Vt 30,000 in boarding fees. The Community
Secondary Day Schools will be built without boarding facilities. Investigation to date indicates that
approximately one third of Community Secondary Day School students will live at home and two thirds,
from somewhat further away, will board with relatives or friends. Those boarding with relatives or friends
will be expected to contribute in cash or kind to the cost of their upkeep; this contribution is estimated to be
Vt 10,000.
14.   Travel costs for students attending Junior Secondary Schools are variable, ranging from Vt 5,000
to Vt 50,000. Local officials estimate that a hypothetical average is about Vt 25,000. Travel costs for
students attending Community Secondary Day Schools, however, will be low: zero for those who live at
home, and about Vt 5,000 for those who board with relatives or friends.
- 45 -



15.    Comparative costs in 2001 vatu are shown in the following table:
Projected          Junior Secondary School    Community Secondary
Annual                                              Day School
Costs
Tuition fee                  15,000                      15,000
Boarding                     30,000                      10,000
Total                        45,000                     25,000
Travel                       25,000                      5,000
Total including              70,000                     30,000
travel
16.    Out-of-pocket costs to parents to send their children to years 7 and 8 in Community Secondary
Day Schools are thus estimated to be less than half than the costs of sending their children to Junior
Secondary Schools. Put another way, a family could afford to send two children to a Community
Secondary Day School for the present cost of sending one child to a Junior Secondary School. An uncosted
benefit is the emotional satisfaction and peace of mind in knowing that their children are close to home and
living with relatives or friends in a family situation, rather than farther away and living in boarding
facilities.
:; 00-D - ;f;: :Prese:t Va':ue of ;lw                           :,'sca Impac
Project Costs
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of altemative
project designs or intemational standards.
- 46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Not applicable to this LIL.)
- 47 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement
1.    Procurement assessment summary. An assessment of the general and project procurement
enviromnent carried out during project preparation found that laws, rules, and regulations as well as
current practices in procurement were basically satisfactory. However, regulations, documents, contracts,
and procedures consistent with IDA's guidelines were lacking, and capacity to carry out detailed
procurement compliant with IDA standards was low. Heretofore, experience in procurement among the
groups indicated below has been as follows:
(a) Officials. Most of technical work, including procurement, is carried out by foreign consultants,
usually following guidelines and documents prescribed by donor agencies. With Government
officials having only minimum exposure to the procurement exercise, the country's dependence on
foreign consultants has become an unavoidable risk.
(b) Civil servants. Although civil service salaries are roughly half of those in the private sector for the
equivalent qualifications and positions and no additional allowance is provided to project staff who
are civil servants, these factors at present do not negatively impact on staff commitment to public
service in general or project work in particular, including the carrying out procurement activities.
(c) Private sector. The country's private sector is not yet well developed. Consequently, competition
among domestic bidders is not expected to yield satisfactory outcomes with respect to economy and
efficiency. On the other hand, the Government's investment policies attract foreign investors, and
donors' bidding rules attract foreign participants (through local representatives) to bidding
conducted for Government projects.
(d) Civil society. The comnmunity's exposure to procurement has been as provider of direct labor for
small civil works and maintenance of selected public facilities.
2.    Based on past procurement experience, lack of capacity of the staff of the implementing agency,
and the great dependence of the staff of the implementing agency on consultants in carrying out
procurement, the assessment has recommended prior-review thresholds (para. 21) that will enable adequate
monitoring of procurement activities.
3.    The assessment has determined only an average risk level. Nonetheless, IDA's annual supervision
is recommended, to cover at least ex post procurement review of at least 20% of contracts subject to post
review. The total contracts/expenditures to be reviewed under prior and post reviews should cover at least
60% of the total expenditures for that period of supervision.
4.     Guidelines. Procurement of works, goods, and contract services funded wholly or partly by the
IDA credit will comply with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Procurement
Guidelines), and the "Procurement Note on Shopping Method" agreed at negotiations (Attachment 6-1).
Employment of consultants and the format for consultant contracts will be based on the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
5.    Procurement plan, strategy & documents. The Procurement Plan in the form of Gantt charts
and electronic spreadsheet tables agreed at negotiations is incorporated into the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). The tables will be used for managing procurement processes during project implementation,
- 48 -



including monitoring complaints and delays. The procurement plan should be updated annually or at any
other time as necessary. Each update requires IDA's prior approval.
6.     The following IDA standard documents and their subsequent revisions will be used for all
international competitive bidding for goods, works, and consultant services:
Procurement of Goods, January 1995, revised March 2000 and January 2001
Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement of Goods or Works, April 1996
Procurement of Works, Smaller Contracts, January 1995
Standard Request for Proposals, Selection of Consultants, July 1997, revised April 1998 and July
1999
Sample Form of Evaluation Report, Selection of Consultants, July 1998.
7.    A standard request for quotation acceptable to the IDA will be used for shopping, and standard
individual consultant contracts acceptable to IDA will be used for all individual consultant assignments. In
addition, a standard request for quotation and contracts for procurement of small works acceptable to IDA
will be used. Specimens for these documents are appended to the PIP.
Procurement methods (Table A)
8.    Works (US$0.90 million equivalent). The civil works category consists of the following
construction activities: (i) office facilities for the MEYS Policy & Planning Service, and (ii) about 20
classrooms for the 10 community secondary day schools. The contract for the construction of the MEYS
Policy & Planning Service office (US$120,000 equivalent) will be awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
9.    Contracts for the construction of about 20 classrooms for the community secondary day schools
will be packaged into 10 small contracts, each with an estimated amount of US$78,000. Since the contracts
are small, the works dispersed in several islands which may not be attractive to foreign bidders, and there
are qualified domestic contractors, the contracting will be carried out in accordance with the procedures for
the procurement of small works. Under this procedure, fixed, lump-sum contracts will be awarded after
evaluating written offers obtained from at least three qualified contractors quoting from clear, written
technical specifications and drawings. Land for the community secondary day schools will be identified and
documented, and architectural plans and designs will be agreed with IDA not later than December 31,
2001.
10.   Goods (US$1.05 million equivalent). The purchase of equipment and furniture and fixtures,
including computers and peripherals for community secondary day schools up to a maximum amount of
US$300,000 equivalent will be carried out through ICB procedures.
11.   Educational materials and supplies, book flood and book barrel materials that will be procured by
PMU, including printed materials for the Vanuatu Cultural Center (VCC) as well as printing and printed
materials which will be procured by the Curriculum Development Unit (CDU), up to an aggregate amount
of US$500,000, may be procured in accordance with international shopping procedures. Written quotations
must be obtained from at least three reputable providers from at least two different countries on the basis of
detailed specifications, delivery dates, and destinations.
12.    Goods to support community participation grants (para. 18) will consist of local materials for the
construction of preschools, renovation of primary schools, and construction of teachers' housing. Up to an
- 49-



aggregate amount of US$250,000 equivalent, such goods will be procured using community participation
procedures for goods. Written quotations should be obtained from at least three reputable suppliers on the
basis of a detailed description and quantity of goods as well as the desired delivery time and place. The
procurement of these goods will be conducted by an engineering consultant (para. 14) of the Project
Management Unit (PMTU).
13.   Consultants' services (US$1.12 million equivalent). Quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS)
procedures will be used for contracting the consulting firms that will: (i) develop the whole-school quality
improvement initiatives in the project schools (packages 35-37 of the Procurement Plan); and (ii) conduct
the evaluation of those initiatives as well as of the vernacular and community day secondary programs
(packages 39, 41-42). These contracts are estimated to cost US$425,000 (Table C).
14.   Following procedures for the selection of individual consultants under time-based contracts,
qualified individuals will be contracted for: (i) architectural design, specification, and supervision of the
project's preschool construction, primary school renovation, community day secondary school and teacher
housing construction, and MEYS Policy & Planning Service office construction (packages 21-24, about
US$90,000); and (ii) project management and coordination, procurement, and financial management
(packages 43-45, about US$350,000). Procurement assistance to community groups constructing
preschools, renovating primary classrooms, and constructing teachers' houses will also be provided by the
above civil works consultants. Based on the findings of the site, facility and resource surveys undertaken in
Component 2 of the project, the consultants will provide detailed engineering drawings, purchase
construction materials, and assist the community with supervision of construction and training in preventive
maintenance.
15.   Single-source contracting will be carried out for the following activities and for the reasons
indicated:
(a) Development of preschools. The National Pre-School Association of Vanuatu, an NGO with a
unique position of long involvement with the Government in developing and extensive coverage of
preschool education, will be contracted by the PMU for curriculum development, organization,
and supervision of preschools, up to a maximum amount of US$12,000 equivalent (package 16).
(b) Development of vernacular languages. The Vanuatu Cultural Center, a chartered Government
unit, will be the home institution of the Committee on Vernacular Languages, responsible for the
development of vemaculars for use as languages of school instruction and publication and
dissemination of the vemacular materials. In support of the project's vemacular program, the
committee may contract language development research (package 38) up to a maximum cost of
US$65,000 with the Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL), an NGO already engaged in language
development and literacy in many parts of the country. Alternatively, the committee may hire
individual language researchers, following the selection of individual consultants under Part V of
the Consultant Guidelines. The termns of reference for the SIL or for individual consultants will
form part of annual proposals to be submitted by the committee to the PMU. The proposals will be
evaluated by a group organized for the purpose and approved by the Director of Policy & Planning
for the Director General. The assessment of readiness of languages to be used in school instruction,
to be conducted by peer reviewers (package 40, about US$10,000), will be also organized by the
committee for 2004.
(c) Revision of curricula. The Curriculum Development Unit (CDU), reporting to the Director,
School Education Programs, MEYS, responsible for the revision and development of the
curriculum for the preschool level through years 1-10, will be responsible for all curricula to be
- 50 -



revised and modified through the project (packages 17-20, about US$168,000). CDU may
contract the services required for the revision of the year 7 and 8 curricula with the Vanuatu Rural
Development Training Centers Association (VRDTCA), an NGO with long-standing involvement
and collaboration with the Government in education. Alternatively as more individual experts may
be required from time to time to enhance its capacity, CDU may hire individuals to assist in the
curriculum development, following selection of individual consultants under Part V of the
Consultant Guidelines. The terms of reference for VRDTCA or for individual consultants will form
part of annual proposals to be submitted by the committee to the PMU. The proposals will be
evaluated by a group organized for the purpose and approved by the Director of Policy & Planning
for the Director General.
16.   Training (US$0.27 million equivalent). The Vanuatu Teachers College (VTC), a sub agency of
MEYS, is the only provider of teacher training in the country. Training expenditures for consultants and
support to participants, in an amount not exceeding US$270,000 equivalent, will be carried out by the
college for the project. VTC will recruit individual trainors, following the selection of individual
consultants under Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. The terms of reference for the consultants will form
part of annual proposals to be submitted by VTC to the PMU. The proposals will be evaluated by a group
organized for the purpose and approved by the Director of Policy & Planning for the Director General. The
selection of teacher trainees at the levels of preschool, primary, and community secondary as well as those
staff for training in the use and preventive maintenance of school equipment including computers and solar
power systems will be in accordance with criteria and procedures acceptable to IDA. Support to
participants attending the project's training program (meals, per diems, transportation, materials) will be
provided in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to the IDA. A Memorandum of
Understanding with the VTC acceptable to IDA will govern the use of credit funds.
17.   Community participation grants (US$0.37 million equivalent). Under the project, the eligible
recipient of a grant on behalf of the community will be the School Committee or School Council officially
sanctioned by MEYS. The typical grant that may be allocated to a School Committee or School Council
may amount to Vt 10,000 (US$70 equivalent), up to a maximum of Vt 5,000,000 (US$35,000 equivalent).
Grants, totaling about US$70,000, may be awarded to support community-originated proposals which aim
to extend access to basic education at the community level (preschool, primary, and community secondary
education) to all children in respective age groups or to make basic education economical or sustainable.
Proposals for grant support will be reviewed by an evaluation committee organized at the PMU and
approved in writing by the Director of Policy & Planning Services for the Director General, based on
criteria acceptable to IDA. This written approval shall be attached to an Grant Agreement (GA) between
the local School Committee or School Council and the PMU, which will detail all procurement procedures
involved with the grants implementation, in the fornat agreed with the IDA.
18.   Grant funds will also cover community works of up to US$300,000 in aggregate, for very
small-scale, labor-intensive arrangements with members of the community for the following activities under
Component 1 of the project: (i) construction of one- or two-room preschools using local (bush) materials;
(ii) renovation of primary classrooms; and (iii) construction of teachers housing. The construction materials
for the above will be supplied separately by the project (para. 12).
19.   The architectural plans and designs for the above very small civil works are those
Government-approved plans and designs acceptable to IDA. The GA covering these works will include the
following: (i) specified lump-sum, fLxed price amount based on a written estimate of work to be rendered by
identified laborers from the community; and (ii) description in reasonable detail, including basic
specifications, required completion date, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The wages for
- 51 -



comtmunity labor will follow the rates for the location and type of labor established by the Ministry of
Public Works.
20.    Maintenance & operation (US$0.04 million equivalent). The project-generated recurrent costs
associated with regular administrative activities (office supplies, upkeep of building and grounds,
equipment maintenance, internal travel) will be provided by regular Govemment appropriations to MEYS,
in accordance with applicable public service laws, rules, and regulations, as agreed with IDA during
negotiations.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpenditWre Category            IcB              NCB          Other'        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                             0.12            0.00           0.78         0.00         0.90
(0.10)          (0.00)        (0.69)        (0.00)       (0.79)
2. Goods                             0.30            0.00           0.75         0.00         1.05
(0.30)          (0.00)        (0.65)        (0.00)       (0.95)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           1.12         0.00         1.12
Consultants                         (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.12)        (0.00)      (1.12)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00           0.27         0.00         0.27
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.27)       (0.00)       (0.27)
5. Community Participation           0.00            0.00           0.37         0.00         0.37
Grants                              (0.00)          (0.00Y         (0.37)        (0.00)      (0.37)
6. Maintenance & Operation           0.00            0.00           0.00         0.04         0.04
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                             0.42            0.00           3.29          0.04        3.75
(0.40)          (0.00)        (3.10)        (0.00)       (3.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 52 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
$election Method
Consultant Senrioes
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.-.F,  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.43
(0.43)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.43)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.69    0.00     0.69
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.69)  (0.00)   (0.69)
Total  0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.69    0.00      1.12
_  (0.43) , (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.69)  (0.00)   (1.12)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 53 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
21.   Procurement review by IDA. The prior-review thresholds for expenditures are set out in Table
B. It is expected that about 36% of total expenditures would be subject to prior review. The following prior
review thresholds were confirmed at negotiations:
Threshold
Works               US$100,000
Goods               US$ 50,000
Consultants, individuals US$ 50,000
Consultants, firms  US$100,000
22.   All terms of reference of consulting services are subject to the IDA's prior review. The contracts
subject to prior review are identified in the Procurement Plan, which should be updated annually and
approved by IDA.
23.   Procurement capacity development. The agreed Action Plan (Table D) is the outcome of IDA's
assessment of the implementing agency's procurement capacity. The assessment recommends specifically
the following:
(a) Procurement administration. Qualified procurement administrators should be designated to
maintain and enforce adherence to the procurement procedures set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Their responsibilities include managing and arranging specific procurement plans and schedules,
preparing and standardizing bidding documents, providing guidance on the selection of tender team
and committee membership, and certifying to compliance of all project procurement processes. At
the current load level, IDA recommends one procurement administrator to assist the Project
Director/Project Coordinator and another to assist the Tender Board on community procurement.
The terms of reference for procurement administrators are in Attachment 6-2.
(b) Training and capacity building in procurement should be arranged as scheduled in Table D.
Training sessions of about four days will be conducted by IDA procurement staff. The training will
cover all procedures applicable to this project, including preparation and updating of procurement
plans. The following should attend the training sessions: Project Director/Coordinator,
procurement administrators, MEYS intemal audit unit, Office of the Auditor General, and the
Tender Board. In addition, regular, twice yearly meetings on procurement should be called for all
members of the project management team as part of institutional capacity development.
- 54 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ equivalent)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                      100,000                NCB/PSW                    0.10
2. Goods                       50,000                  ICB/IS                   0.60
3. Services
(a) Individuals              50,000          Individual/Single Source         0.51
(b) Firms                   100,000                  QCBS                     0.43
4. Training                    50,000                Individual                 0.00
5. Grants                        0                                              0.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$1.64 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
24.   Flow of funds. In MEYS, the Director of Policy & Planning Service, in his capacity as Project
Manager as the head of the Project Management Unit (PMU), shall be responsible for authorizing
expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets. The Project Manager shall submit either General
payment Vouchers (GPV) or Local Purchase Orders (LPO) to MOF where they would be verified. MOF
shall issue payment orders to the central bank to credit the payee's account at the latter's bank and to debit
the project Special Account.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amouahnot in US$ri          L FinaningPercentage
(1) Works                                  0.70                         85%
(2) Goods                                  0.92           100% foreign expenditures; 100% local
expenditures ex factory; 80 local
expenditures procured locally
(3) Services -- Consultants                1.10                         100%
(4) Training                               0.27                         100%
(5) Grants                                 0.30                100% of amounts disbursed
(6) Unallocated                            0.21
Total Project Costs                        3.50
Total                                      3.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
25.   Disbursements shall be made against SOEs for the following: (a) works under contracts costing
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each;
(c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training;
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Special account:
26.   The Government would establish a Special Account (SA) at the Reserve Bank (the central bank of
Vanuatu), denominated in US dollars, with an authorized allocation of US$ 300,000, under the name of the
MOF, and with an initial authorized allocation of US$ 100,000.
27.   Replenishment of SA. Based on the SA bank statements, copies of General Payment Voucher
(GPV) or Local Purchase Orders (LPO), and other necessary supporting documents, the MOF would
prepare applications for replenishment on a monthly basis. With the preparation of satisfactory Project
Management Report (PMR), the replenishment of the SA may be based on quarterly PMRs.
Financial Manaaement
28.   Financial management assessment summary. An assessment of the financial management
- 56 -



capability and control environment of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MEYS) and Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development (MOF) was carried out before appraisal. Although the assessment
found financial management practices basically sound, it also found some weaknesses. An action plan
agreed with the Govermment to strengthen the financial management capacity is provided in Table D. The
objective of the action plan is to ensure that the project would develop a sound financial management
system prior to the project's effectiveness.
29.   The following are the financial management risks and how they are expected to be addressed:
(a) There is little capacity and understanding of roles and duties among project management staff. This
risk would be addressed by: (i) adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) which would
cover the procedures to be followed by everybody involved in the project; (ii) provision of training
on procurement and financial management for relevant staff of the PMU; and (iii) provision of on
going consultant assistance to the PMU in the implementation of the project.
(b) The role of the comnmunity and NGO participation in the implementation of the project may not be
adequately understood by the participants themselves. This risk will be addressed by providing
guidelines for both community and NGO on their respective roles as participants of the project.
The guidelines will be part of the PMM.
30.   The following summary assessment is provided as a background to the financial management
action plan (Table D) and financial management arrangements (below):
(a) Laws and regulations. The laws and regulations currently governing public procurement and
financial management are the following: (i) Public Finance and Economic Management Act no. 6
of 1998; (ii) Govermnent Contracts and Tenders Act no. 10 of 1998; (iii) Tenders Regulations
Order no. 4 of 1999; (iv) Financial Regulations of the Republic of Vanuatu; and (v) Expenditure
Review and Audit Act no. 3 of 1998.
(b) Budget process. The Government has (i) a recurrent budget and (ii) a development budget called
the Government In-vestment Program (GIP). The former budget covers civil servant salaries, office
supplies, transportation allowance, and other routine expenditures, including the Government's
contribution to projects funded by external donors. The GIP covers the expenditures funded by
donors. The fiscal year is from January to December. In May, governmental ministries propose
their budget for the coming year to the Department of Economic & Social Development of MOF.
The proposals are appraised by officers designated for each sector to ensure consistency with
country strategies and sector priorities. In September, the proposals are sent for government-wide
coordination to the Ministries Budget Committee (MBC) which prepares the Estimates of
Recurrent Revenue and Expenditure (ERRE). The MBC is chaired by MOF with members from
the MEYS, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Public Works. In October, the ERRE is presented
to the Parliament for discussion. The budget is presented to Parliament where it is examined in
detail and adopted, usually toward the end of the year, for implementation at the beginning of the
coming year.
(c) Procurement management. MEYS has prior experience with procurement, especially for projects
financed by international fmancial institutions (IFIs) including IDA (World Bank), ADB, and
AusAID. Most of the procurement procedures follow international competitive bidding (ICB).
(d) Disbursement process. An Accounting Officer is assigned to each departmental budget for
recurrent expenditures. For donor-financed projects, the preparation of accounts for payment is
carried out by the implementing agency concerned, usually by the project manager and then is sent
- 57 -



to MOF. (In the proposed project, the project manager is the Director, Policy & Planning Service,
MEYS.) Payments are made through a General Payment Voucher (GPV) or a Local Purchase
Orders (LPO). The Accounting Officer sends the GPV or LPO to MOF where it is verified, paid,
and recorded.
(c) Accounting and records management. International Accounting Standards (IAS) are the
generally accepted accounting principles for financial reporting in the country. The double-entry
cash basis accounting system is in use. Computerized record keeping is done only at the central
level at the MOF. The Director General of Finance ensures that all government accounts are
maintained in a form satisfactory to the Minister of Finance and that enables the prompt
completion of monthly and annual reports of accounts. Previous projects show evidence of
satisfactory record-keeping within MEYS and MOF. However, no documentation has been found
on the management of the record.
(d) Audit, support, and control. Audit is ccinducted centrally by the Office of the Auditor General,
with focus on compliance. Although there are regulations for internal audit, internal audit function
has not been established in MEYS or MOF. No specific procurement audit is conducted due to
lack of capacity at the auditing agency. Legal advice is provided by the Office of the Attorney
General.
(e) Staffing and capacity building. In the previous project (PASEP, Credit 1964-VAN), procurement
and financial management were carried out by a team of consultants working for MEYS, as are
current donor-financed projects in MEYS. Since no capacity has been built, the proposed project
would also require consultant involvement. This time, the consultant would also be responsible for
building the needed financial management capacity at MEYS.The career system and salary
structures are maintained by the Public Service Commission (PSC), which recruits and hires civil
service employees. The typical educational attainment in the public service is Year 10. A civil
servant may be seconded to a particular project, in which case his or her salary would be paid by
the project. Upon project completion, the civil servant returns to his or her original position and
salary. General training is provided by the PSC, usually using modules developed by the
Government Training Center.Through DFID (UK) assistance, a Financial Sector Training Unit
(FSTU) has been established for MOF at the National Technical Institute of Vanuatu (INTV). The
unit offers a four-month course on financial management and accountancy and has the capability to
design new training courses by bringing in specialists.
Financial management arrangements:
31.   Institutional arrangements. In general, the technical and the financial administration of the
project will be handled by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in MEYS, in coordination with the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The latter would have more responsibilities over financial administration
(recording of transactions, reviewing of payments, management of records). Although recording and record
management will also be done in the PMU, the primary recording and original documents keeping will be
MOF responsibilities.
32.   A PMU would be organized for the project. The Director of Policy & Planning Service, MEYS
would be Project Manager and head of the PMU responsible for the project implementation. A Project
Coordinator would be assigned to manage all of the consultant hiring for the project. Among the
consultants would be the Project Coordinator himself, some technical staff, procurement staff, and the
Accounting Officer responsible for financial management. Specifically, the Accounting Officer would: (i)
assist the Project Manager with the preparation of GPVs or LPOs for submission to MOF; (ii) record
- 58 -



project transactions, obtain and record statements from the Reserve Bank for records reconciliation; and
(iii) prepare PMR (financial report). The consultant will work closely with both MEYS and MOF on a
daily basis. The consultant would also have the responsibility for developing financial management skills at
the implementing agencies.
33.   Accounting and PMM. The general accounting system for the project would follow the
Government accounting system as prescribed in the Financial Regulations of the Republic of Vanuatu. The
flow of funds for the project is in Attachment 6.4. Accounting procedures specific to the project would be
included in a Project Management Manual (PMM). The PMM would document the system and procedures
to be followed by PMU, MEYS, and MOF staff (including consultants) who would be involved in the
project, to ensure that the financial management practice of the project are sound. The PMM would set out
internal controls, organizational structure and job descriptions, budgeting, procurement, disbursement,
accounting, reporting, and auditing arrangements for all project transactions, including arrangements for
the participation of the community and of NGOs. The PMM was drafted by a team of consultants who
assisted the Government in the preparation of the project. As part of the awareness, coordination and
capacity building for the project, training on the PMM would be conducted for staff involved in the project
upon project effectiveness.
34.   Project Management Report (PMR). A simplified format for the PMR was agreed during
appraisal. The PMR would include the financial reports, project progress reports, and procurement
management report. The quarterly PMR would be prepared by PMU in coordination with MOF and
submitted to IDA not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter. The traditional SOE method of
disbursement will be used. Within one year after effectiveness, a review will be conducted to determine the
feasibility of adopting PMR-based disbursement.
Auditing arrangements:
35.   Previous project audits. The audit for the successfully implemented IDA Primary and Secondary
Education Project (Credit 1964-VAN) was conducted by the Office of the Auditor General and accepted by
iDA.
36.   Audit of this project. The detailed TORs for the project audit is attached below. The project
audit shall be carried out by the Auditor General in accordance with the above-cited TORs. The Auditor
General has been chosen a project auditor on the basis of the following: (i) experience with the previous
project (Credit 1964-VAN); and (ii) unsatisfactory experiences of other donor-financed projects of the
MEYS which encountered problems with the appointment of private auditors. The annual project account
and special account shall be prepared by the Government, represented by both MEYS and MOF. The
annual audit shall be furnished to IDA not later than six months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year.
- 59 -



Table D: Action Plan for Procurement & Financial Management
Issue or Problem                  Remedial Action         Responsible    Due Date
A. Project Organization and Staffing
1. Establishment of PMU              1. Decree establishing PMU     MEYS          By Credit
2. Appointment of government staff to  2. Decree appointing staff to PMU  MEYS    effectiveness
PMU                                                                               (1, 2, 3)
3. Appointment of consultants (Project  3. Contract awarded to consultants MEYS
Manager, Financial Management
Specialist, Procurement Specialist for PMU
B. Project Management Manual
Manual documenting procedures to be   1. Draft Project Management   MEYS          By Appraisal
followed by PMU, covering job        Manual (PMM)
descriptions, procurement and financial    2. Issuance of final PMM  MEYS         By March 30,
management (FM) arrangements, records   acceptable to IDA, detailing (i)          2001
management, fixed assets and inventory    budget process, (ii) procurement
management, bookkeeping, reporting,  methods, and (iii) monitoring and
monitoring, evaluation of FM system,  reporting of procurement and
including community and NGO          financial management
participation, technical specifications.
C. Training
Training of Government staff of the PMU   FMS training              PMU for staff By December
and MOF and those who would be involved                             of MEYS and  31, 2001
in project implementation to acquire                                MOF
necessary skills to carry out their respective
duties as described in the Project
Management Manual.
- 60 -



Attachment 6-1
Procurement Note on Shopping Method
1.   General. This note gives guidance on the shopping procedures applicable to this project, as an
elaboration of paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines. Shopping is intended to be a simple and
rapid procurement method.
2.   Number and origin of quotations to be compared. Paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines require the
purchaser to obtain and compare at least three quotations to establish reasonableness of price. Under
international shopping, borrowers request quotations from suppliers from at least two different countries,
including the borrowers'. Quotations for foreign goods located in the borrower country and offered by a
firm located in the borrower country, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the
"two different countries" rule. This is applicable, to items such as computers, furniture, educational,
printing, and construction materials, etc., that are normally imported by dealers of the foreign
manufacturers who are also able to provide after-sales services.
3.   Firms to be invited. The borrower exercises due diligence to satisfy itself that the finns invited to
quote are reputable, well established, and are suppliers of the goods or services being purchased as part of
their normal business. In case the borrower receives unsolicited quotations, these may be accepted after
carrying out a similar due diligence exercise to verify the nature and reputation of the quoting firms.
4.   Form of requests. The purchaser requests quotations by letter, fax, telex, electronic messaging, etc.,
with proof of receipt for record keeping. The request includes the description and quantity of the goods as
well as the required delivery time and place for the goods or services, including installation requirements, if
any. The request indicates the date by which the quotations are needed. In extremely urgent cases, such as
restoration of vital services, quotations for civil works may be requested in the form of unit rate prices (if
work quantities are available with a reasonable degree of reliability), "cost plus fee" arrangements (when
quantities cannot be reasonably determined in advance), or lump sum based on cost estimates carried out
by the borrower, or if not possible, even by the prospective contractors themselves.
5.   Prices and currencies. Prices for goods supplied from within the country (including previously
imported items) are requested to be quoted EXW (ex works, ex factory, ex warehouse ex show room or
off-the-shelf, as applicable), including all customs duties and sales and other taxes already paid or payable
on raw materials and components. For goods offered from abroad (i.e., not previously imported), prices are
requested CIF or CIP. Prices for civil works are requested inclusive of all taxes and duties payable by the
contractor. Prices can be quoted in any of the currencies of Bank member countries.
6.   Submission of quotations. Quotations should be submitted in writing, i.e., by fax, telex, letter, or
electronic messaging, with copies to be kept for records. No bid or performnance securities are required.
There is no requirement for strict time and date for submission of quotations or for public opening, but
normally requests for quotes indicate the expected date of submission of quotes, typically within one or two
weeks of the initial request. In other cases, if the purchaser has not received at least three quotations within
the time set, it verifies with the missing suppliers whether they intend to do so and how soon. Unless there
is extreme urgency or there are already three or more quotations available, the client may give a reasonable
amount of additional time, say three more days, to get additional quotations. At this point the client may
proceed with the comparison of the proposals received.
7.   Comparison of quotations. Quotations are compared after adding to the quoted price for goods the
estimated cost of inland transportation and insurance, if any, to the final destination. For purposes of
- 61 -



comparison, prices are converted into local currency at the exchange rate on the day of invitation of the
quotes or the day of comparison. The lowest priced offer is selected. Purchasers may exercise discretion in
selecting a quotation that is not the lowest priced, if there is good justification. For example, a slightly
higher price may be justified by faster delivery or immediate availability in cases of extreme urgency, when
late delivery may result in heavy consequences for the purchaser. In such cases, the delivery requirement
should be clearly indicated in the request for quotation.
8.     Record of award. The client documents the award decision and its rationale and keeps it for
review and audit by the Bank. The record contains also the list of firms invited and the list and value of the
quotations received and documents clearly that the award is based on sound economic criteria.
9.     Currency of payment Purchase orders specify the currency of payment which is the currency of
the quote. The Bank accepts payments in any currency of the member countries.
- 62 -



Attachment 6-2
Terms of Reference for Procurement Administrator
1.  Qualifications and experience: (i) A graduate in either of the following: engineering, economics,
finance, or similar advanced degree from a recognized university; (ii) At least 10 years of experience in
procurement of which about 5 years should be in a management position held in an international or national
public or private sector organization, preferably in a developing country; (iii) Experience with World
Bank-funded projects would be an advantage; and (iv) Good computing skills.
2.  Reporting and counterparts. The Procurement Administrator (PA) reports directly to the Project
Director. The PA will have a Vanuatu counterpart, assigned by the Project Director.
3. Responsibilities. The PA will manage the procurement program for the project, provide to others the
needed technical support and guidance in all aspects of procurement in accordance with the project
guidelines as described in the project documents and Development Credit Agreement. The PA will be
expected to ensure high quality and transparent problem-solving of procurement issues and to facilitate
smooth and speedy implementation of the project. In addition, the PA will coordinate with the Financial
Manager in the PMU to ensure overall integration of plans and reports.
4.   Specifically, the PA will: (i) Update the procurement plan on a regular basis and monitor the
implementation of the procurement plans for works, goods, and consultants agreed with the Bank; (ii)
Work with technical specialists to review and update procurement schedules; (iii) Ensure compliance with
the World Bank Guidelines that apply to the project; (iv) Assist the Project Director in ensuring that
procurement arrangements are consistent with project implementation and development objectives and
discuss issues, options, and possible solutions with the Project Director; (v) Prepare requests for proposals,
invitations to bid (including specifications and selection criteria) and process bid evaluations; (vi) Prepare
the documents required to obtain clearance from the World Bank for awarding of contracts and follow-up
actions; (vii) Prepare the contracts with suppliers, contractors, or consultants and conduct follow up for
delivery of goods, works, or services according to schedule; (viii) Organize the receipt of goods at entry,
customs clearance, and delivery to the final destination; (ix) Maintain records of goods received, their
quality and quantity, compliance with contract specifications, and accounts for actual deliveries; (x) In
coordination with Project Management, handle warranty and insurance claims; (xi) Maintain a proper filing
system for all relevant procurement documents of the project and prepare needed reports and documents for
the World Bank review missions; (xii) Coordinate with the PMU Financial Officer on contractual
payments; (xiii) Train other parties concerned on procurement: other project staff, audit agencies and units,
members of tender board; and (xiv) Carry out other procurement-related tasks assigned by the Project
Director.
5.  Reports. The PA will prepare a quarterly progress report (physical and financial) and assist the
Project Director in the compilation of the quarterly project progress report.
-63 -



Attachment 6-3
Terms of Reference for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion on
the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system including internal
controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide project management with timely
information on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-up action; and (iii) to assess the
achievements of project objectives as measured by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e., covering all sources and application of funds by all
implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other agencies as
considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and with the
Audit Manual for World Bank Financed projects issued by East Asia and Pacific Region of the Bank (July
1998). It will include such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.
Specific areas of coverage of the audit will include the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with consistently applied International Accounting Standard (IAS) and give a true and fair view of the
operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of the fiscal
year. Any material deviations from IAS, and the impact of such departures on the project financial
statements as presented would be stated;
(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems, including internal
controls. This would include such aspects as the adequacy and effectiveness of accounting, financial and
operational controls, and anv needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies, plans and
procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying weak
controls or creating them where there are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity, controls,
security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any);
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of the financing agreement, especially those
relating to accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a) all external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the financing agreement,
with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which the financing
was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which
they were provided;
(c) the accounting and internal control systems are adequate to monitor expenditures and other
fuiancial transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed assets;
(d) expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly classified
in accordance writh the financing agreement;
- 64 -



(e) goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(f) the borrower and project implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation of all
relevant transactions;
(g) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the Project
Financial Statements;
(h) where a Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the financing agreement;
(i) the expenditures submitted to the Bank, including those submitted in PMRs, are eligible for
Bank financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures;
(j) the annual financial statements can be reconciled with the relevant year to date amounts
appearing in the PMR for the fourth quarter of the year;
(k) in the absence of PMR satisfactory to the Bank, statements of expenditures (SOE) shall be
used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications accurately reflect expenditures
and activities on the project;
(1) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled with the
amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the special account
are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from the IDA Credit.
(4) An assessment of the achievements of the planned results of the projects as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements
MEYS as the implementing agency (in this case represented by PMU) together with MOF shall
prepare the consolidated project accounts which should include (i) Annual Project Expenditures and
Financing; and (ii) Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing. Sources of funds would show IDA
and GOV counterpart funds separately. Project expenditures would be summarized by main project
components and disbursement categories both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated to
date. The consolidated project account shall also include the Financial Statements of the Special Account
covering: (i) deposits and replenishments received from the Association; (ii) withdrawals from the special
account; and (iii) the remaining balances at the end of the fiscal year
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Association's
procedures and the exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit should examine
the eligibility and integrity of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the
end of the period, the operation and use of the special account in accordance with the financing agreement,
and the adequacy of intemal financial controls.
Special Account. The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project
expenditures made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account. Reconciliation
should also be made with the amounts paid from the prefinancing account and direct payments (if any).
The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to the special account and
disbursed by the Association to the special account.
Project Management Reports. Disbursement on PMRs is a matter of specific concern to the
- 65 -



Bank. To provide the necessary degree of reassurance with respect to PMRs, the auditor should:
(a) examine the PMRs prepared during the year, the amounts disbursed on them and the
movements and the balances on the Special Accounts and project bank account during the year to
ascertain how well the system is working in general;
(b) assess the methods used to compile PMRs to ascertain that information given in PMRs
accurately reflects underlying records and documents;
(c) compare the format and content of PMRs prepared during the year, with those of the annual
financial statements for the year, verifying that the year to date figures in the final quarter PMR are
reconcilable with the annual statements;
(d) carry out tests to assess whether PMR based disbursement has been used only for expenditures
eligible for Bank funding and list departures which have occurred; and
(e) refer specifically in the audit opinion to the reliability of PMRs as a basis for disbursement and
the management of the Special Account.
Statements of Expenditures. In the absence of PMR satisfactory to the Bank, the auditor is also
required to audit all SOEs (paid from the special account and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the
submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should apply such tests and controls as the auditor
considers necessary under the circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully compared for project
eligibility with the relevant financing agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for
guidance when considered necessary. Ineligible expenditures identified as having been included in
withdrawal applications and reimbursed by the Association should be noted separately by the auditor. The
total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of Association
disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
statements, including aa opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph commenting on the
accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the PMR based disbursements or SOE procedures
and the extent to which the Association can rely on PMRs or SOEs respectively as a basis for loan
disbursement. The report should refer to the auditor's TOR. The auditor should submit the report to the
project executing agency who should then promptly forward one copy of the audited accounts and report to
the Association. It should be received by the Association no later than six months after the end of the
project's fiscal year.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the auditor
will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and intemal controls that
were examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of
weakness in systems and intemal controls and make recommendation for their improvement;
(b) give coniments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project;
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
- 66 -



agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a
significant impact on the implementation of the project, and
(f) any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also be
obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Association.
The auditor should be familiar with the Association's Audit Manualfor World Bank Financed
Projects issued by East Asia and Pacific Region which provide guidance to auditors conducting audits of
Association financed projects.
- 67 -



Attachment 6.4
Vanuatu Second Education Project
Flow of Funds
IDA
/                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Auditor
/           t                                ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~audt  General
/ ~~~~~~~PMR and/
/                          s  ~~~~~~~~~~aDd lfor reDienishment   
countersien n
GOV                                    M * OF           rcopies___PMU
Reserve Bank             transaction       M                transaction
(Spe cial Acct.)         records                            records
Debit to
Special Account                        POorGPV
funds
payment of transfer
Grant Proposal / A,reement
(only for the arant recipient)
|Grant Recipient
Grant Recipient Bank Account
I  Supol-er and Contractor
-68-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       15                           15
First Bank mission (identification)              11/15/99                     11/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                     01/26/2001                    01/26/2001
Negotiations                                    02/12/2001                    02/12/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2001
Prepared by:
Alfonso F. de Guzman and David A. Klaus
Preparation assistance:
Administrative Budget (US$)
. -.   :F9- -Y9R T-- al . .. FYOO  FY01      Total
.E it M8ster Plan 4aster Pla    projbct.    Pjet    Prcject
u~r                    ___ ____   ______                           Pwaation ~efarto
Bank Budget (BB)               72,000     44,300    116,300      31,500    177,400    208,900
Japan PHRD Grant (JGF)        160,400     90,600    251,000       4,100     26,000      30,100
Australia Trust Tunds          19,500     13,800      33,300     17,000      19,700     36,700
New Zealand Trust Fund              0          0          0      35,300     13,700      49,000
Total              251,900    148,700    400,600      87,900    236,800    324,700
- 69 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Task Team:
Alfonso F. de Guzman              Senior Education Specialist, task team leader
Novira K. Asra                    Financial Management Officer, financial management arrangements
Jacqueline Baptist                Economist, economic analyses
Carlos R. Escudero                Chief Counsel, development credit documents
David A. Klaus                    Lead Human Resource Specialist, economic and technical analyses
Parivash Mehrdadi                 Program Assistant, project documentation
Rosa Muleta                       Disbursement Officer, disbursement arrangements
Karin I. Nordlander               Senior Counsel, development credit documents
Rizal H. Rivai                    Procurement Specialist, procurement assessment, arrangements
Consultants:
Jean-Michel Charpentier           Linguist, language policy and vernacular education
Teny Crowley                      Linguist, linguistic mapping
Geoffrey H. Feast                 Architect, site and facilities surveys
Peter D. Gibbons                  Educator, project preparation
Anne Glover                       Educator, vernacular education planning
Andrew Ikupu                      Educator, vernacular education planning
Roger D. Jenkins                  Accountant, Accounting and auditing processes and documentation
Nigel Wakeharn                    Architect, school mapping and educational facilities planning
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Vanuatu, Republic of. Accounting and Financial Management System (January 2001). (Prepared by Roger
D. Jenkins) Port Vila, Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports. Spreadsheets. (Electronic file in
EASHD.)
- The Location and Distribution of the Primary and Secondary Schools of Vanuatu (August
1999). (Prepared by Doreen Leona and Peter D. Gibbons) Port Vila, Ministry of Education, Youth
& Sports. Typescript.
. Participation Readiness Status: An assessment of Sangalai School, LUliveo Island,
Maskelynes, and Uripiv School, Uripiv Island, Malampa Province (November 2000). (Prepared by
Helen Tamtam, Pierre Gambetta, and Peter D. Gibbons) Port Vila, Ministry of Education, Youth
& Sports. Typescript.
. Pilot Project Implementation Plan (draft, May 2000). Vernacular Education in Pre School
and Primary; Improvement of Quality in the Primary School; Extension of Access in Years 7 and
8. (Prepared by Peter D. Gibbons) + 18 updates (November 2000-January 2001). Typescript.
(Electronic file in EASHD.)
- Site Facility and Resource Survey: Vinamangwe & Ndui Ndui Primary Schools, N.W.
Ambae, Vanuatu (November 2000). (Prepared by James Ferrie & Partners, Architects) Port Vila,
Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Typescript.
- Vernaculars in Education in Vanuatu (January 2000). (Prepared by Terry Crowley) Port
Vila, Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports. Typescript.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Asra, Novira K. Review of Financial Management System (draft, December 20, 2000). Washington, DC,
The World Bank. Typescript. (Electronic file in EASHD.)
Charpentier, Jean-Michel. Report on Mission to Vanuatu, 27 September-l  October 2000. Washington,
DC, The World Bank. Typescript.
. Criticisms and Proposals concerning the "Master Plan" (November 1999). (Translated by
John Lynch). Washington, DC, The World Bank. Typescript.
Ikupu, Andrew, and Anne Glover. Vanuatu Vernacular Education Project (December 1998). Washington,
DC, The World Bank. Typescript.
Rivai, Rizal H. Procurement Assessment Report (draft, December 22, 2000). Washington, DC, The World
Bank. Typescript. (Electronic file in EASHD.)
Wakeham, Nigel. Vanuatu: Second Education Project, Implementation Specialist's Report (June 1999).
Washington, DC, The World Bank. Typescript.
C. Other
Vanuatu, Republic of. The Education Master Plan of the Republic of Vanuatu (draft of November 1999).
- 71 -



(Prepared by David A. Klaus) Executive summary + II technical annexes. Port Vila, Ministry of
Education, Youth & Sports. Typescript. (Electronic file in EASHD.)
. Revised Financial Projections to the Education Master Plan of the Republic of Vanuatu (May
2000). (Prepared by Roger D. Jenkins) P'ort Vila, Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports.
Typescript.
*Including electronic files
- 72 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    disbursements'
Project ID    FY  Purpose                              IBRD       IDA                     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P004820     1991 HOUSING                                   0.00     3.40                       1.95     0.00     1.82     1.82
P004814     1989 EDUCATION                                 0.00     8.00                       0.13     0.00    -0.57     0.00
Total:     0.00     11.40                      2.08      0.00     1.24     1.82
VANUATU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1996                 Le Meridien Port                   2.58      0.00     0,00      0.00     2.58      0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            2.58      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.58     0.00     0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
- 73 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
VANUATU: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &   middla-
Vanuatu    Paclflc   Income       Development diamond'
1 999
POeulation. mid-tyear (millions)                       0,19      1,837     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,170      1,000     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       0.22      1,833     2,513
Averaae annual growth, 1993.99
Population M%l                                           2.8       1.2        11r
Labor force (%)                                                    1,3       1.2      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year availoble, 1993-991                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of ootulation below national covertY- lino)
Urban pooulation (% of total population)                 20         34        43
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                         65         69        69
Infant mortalitv (Der 1,000 live births)                 36         35        33
Child malnutrition 1% of chi!dren under 5)                .         22        15                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of pODu/atlon)                   87         84        86
Illiteracy (% of population ape 15*)                                15        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age poputafion)              119       114        -     anuatu
Male                                                             121       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                           121       11e
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999               -
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ billions)                            012      0,14       0,24
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                          37.2                                           Trade
ExDorts of ooods and services/GOP                      37.3
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                              9.2
Gross national savinqs/GDP                             24.3
Current account balance/GOP                      -      -8.7      15.7                Domestic
Interest cavmentsfGOP                          0,3      0.5        0.2        *.    Savings                        Investment
Total debtiGDP                                 4.1      21.5      26.2
Total debt service/exDorts                       -      24         1.4
Present valuo of debtUGDP                                         15.2
Present value of debt/exports                                     29.4
Indebtedness
1979-19  1989-99    19o        1999   199S-03
(averaoe annual ropwthl
GDP                                   2.7      1 6      21        -2.0                          Vanualu
GNP per capita                       -0 8     -2 8      -09       -5.2                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of poods and services        -6 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
i979     1989      1998       1999      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Acriculture                                   22.0      19.2                   .
Industry                                               12.7
Manufacturinq                                 3.9      5.          .                2
Services                                         -.    68.1                           a      4-
Services                        681                            o     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94   95   96   97   98 \
Private consumption                                    60.9                          -2
General government consumption                         29.9                                    -     Go0           G9OP
Imports of qoods and services                          65. 3
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                    1,9      4.3
Industrv                                       1.2       1.9
Manufacturin                                15.1 
Services                                       3.3       0.2
Private consumDtion                            4.1
General aovernment consumption                -1.2
Gross domestic investment                      5.5
Imports of ooods and services                 -1.1
Gross national product                         1.7      -0.1       2.1      -2.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-orouD averaae. If data are missina, the diamond will
- 74 -



Vanuatu
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflaton
Domestic pnices                                                                      4nlto  %
(% change)                                                                           4
Consumer prices                                4.0       7.7       3.3               3
Implicit GDP deflator                                   4.2        3.1               2 2
Government flnance                                                                   1
(% of GDP, includes curren granotsj 
Current revenue                                                   27.8                      94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                             4.0                      -     GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -13.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                         1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                 30         -     120
Copra                                                             13
n.a.                                                                                9
Manufactures                                                                        s i
Total imports (cif)                                                109                60
Food                                                                                3.1
Fuel and energy y.
Capital goods                                                                      |.
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..93   94   g                                              s   97   so   99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..         .         ..               Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                            54        111                   _I
Imports of goods and services                            77        131                                                    99
Resource balance                                        -23        -20
Net income                                               -6        -31
Netcurrent transfers                                     17         13
Current account balance                                 -12        -38                12
Financing items (net)                                    20         37
Changes in net reserves                                  -8          1         .     1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   35        45
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              68.8    116.0      127.5    129.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS mi-lions)                                                                       Composition of total debt. 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             5       30         63       72
IBRD                                           0        0         0
IDA                                            0        3         14       14                   G: 9
Total debt service                               1        2          2        2
IBRD                                           0        0         0
IDA                                            0        0         0                    E: 1Q
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               15       16          7
Official creditors                             0        5         12
Private creditors                              0        0         0
Foreign direct investment                      0        9        27
Portfolio equity                               0        0         0                                      D: 30
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        8          0               A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disburnements                                  0        1          1               B- IDA    D - Other rmultlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0         0                C - IMF                       G - Short-terj
Net flows                                      0        1          1
Interest payments                              0        0         0
Net transfers                                  0        1          1
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                           919/00
- 75 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31505
ISLES 01670                           168                  169
TFGUA     TORRES             . VOr TANDE
TORRES
14ALO                      TORBA                           VANUATU
URfPARAPARA (3
P MOTA LAVA                  @    REGION CAPITALS
VANUA LAVA  >MOTA                                    NATIONAL CPTAL
14                           IQIeO    -fK                            REGION BOUNDARIES           14
ISLES BANKS
SANTA MARIA
SANMA
MA WO                                            15
ESPIRITU                                     PENAMA
SANTO?                                  PENAAML
S   Lugonvill;    AOBA         *
MALO<)          
dPENTECTE (PENTECOST)
MAL"PA            lp PAAMA                         OCEAN
MAt^^PA >-So                PAAM
/         MOruot~( TONGOA
170                              /pemAE                                                           170
SHEPHERD ISLANDS          Thi mw p          by
d.0 Ahe      o iatJif T6
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.                               boundorlos,
NGUNA ,   SHEFA                        any rsw idwOon A*"
S<~~~~~~~~~~~~g a of 8athe, ro=a
EFATE                                      te Vi Wany rrsmwo
0    2              0 1 O SV                   N                              to = n c   o f   su ch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18 [50 SI18
172
22-                22?
166'                    9                   i    6t    1t
Gom
PUURU FES.: ,,>SWAU    wocScOeERR  MANGO    _   A--O                    HUN_S.
PAIA~U   FEDERATE~TTSfILNS.h~Mk S
M.iCRONRSkITA US'
-,< .  ,,  ........ NURJ     .     htUSJNAlU$l9t"19
190
lYiv4MS,A [IAPOl                               .w. KIFAATI .r
TUVON                                    TAFEA
T1ANIWA
$AMOA
-*> p, N VANf { = +. TANNA
k    ~   ,         IogUFUTUNA ~
AUSTRALIA
JAZ~k                                   0           To Mafthew & Hunter Islands 200
?nt Qo               t                     20(See inset a6ov4I
.1,,, ,,,,, .  ,J C?  ,69U
JUNE 2001



