                                               Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                       Report No. 34767




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE



                                              VANUATU



                           LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
                                                 FOR A
                                SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT

                                         Credit No. 3543-VU


                                            January 6, 2006




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (December 2005)

            Currency Unit       =    Vatu
            US$1.00             =    Vatu 111.7

                 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

                          Metric System

                         FISCAL YEAR

                     January 1 to December 31




Acting Vice President:             Jeffrey Gutman, EAPVP
     Country Director:             Zhu Xian, EACNF
      Sector Manager:              Christopher Thomas, EASHD
Acting Sector Director:            Tamar Manuelyan Atinc, EASHD
   Task Team Leader:               Jerry Strudwick, EASHD




                                 2

                                PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                             VANUATU
                       SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 3543-VU)


A.      Introduction

1.      This is the Project Completion Note for the Vanuatu Second Education Project (the
Project) for which the Board approved Credit 3543-VU in the amount of US$3.75 million on
June 29, 2001. The Government of Vanuatu (GOV) failed to sign the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) within the usual 18 month signature deadline after Board Approval, and
hence the Project never became effective. In January 2003, subsequent to an International
Development Association (IDA) team visit to Vanuatu, GOV formally notified IDA of its
interest in reactivating the credit and requested a nine month extension of the signature deadline.
However, in April 2003 it was jointly decided by IDA management and GOV that the changes
needed to the Project design were substantial enough to require a re-design of the Project, and
that the granting of an extension would not be suitable. In this context, the decision was taken to
cancel the full Credit amount of US$3.75 million, with the view to begin the design of a new
project of similar financial scope that fully meets the requirements of the Government. In
accordance with OP 13.55, this note is in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report
reflecting the fact that cancellation of the Credit took place before meaningful project
implementation.

B.      Country Context and Background

2.        Independent since 1980 from joint British and French colonial administration,
Vanuatu's 190,000 people live in the South Pacific archipelago previously known as the New
Hebrides. The country derives most of its income from agriculture (both export and subsistence)
and tourism. Vanuatu has inherited a dual-lingual education system, which is directed mainly at
preparing young people for further education and formal employment. The system, however, has
become irrelevant to the needs of the country, where the people speak over 100 Melanesian
languages, and where, for the most part, the young are unable to find employment in the formal
sector.

3.        With IDA support, the Government developed a National Education Master Plan which
would reform the system to provide culturally relevant and fiscally affordable basic education to
all ni-Vanuatu children. GOV requested IDA's technical and financial assistance to refine and
further develop this Plan under the Second Education Project. IDA was also requested to assist
the Government address what were seen as the persisting weaknesses at the time in the education
system: (i) a shortage of student places after primary year 6; (ii) an inefficient and high cost
system, due to the high rates of repetition and dropout; (iii) equity issues due to widespread
regional, urban-rural and social differences in the provision of education; and (iv) an urban- and
formal-sector oriented education which was seen as being irrelevant, because many among the
educated could not find employment in the very small formal economy and hence most school
leavers needed to make their living in the rural areas--i.e., an environment for which it was
thought the school system was not preparing them. Moreover, there were perceptions that: (i)

the country's language policy in education needed to be changed; (ii) that new partnerships
needed to be forged to expand the resource base and improve delivery; and (iii) education
planning needed to be strengthened.


C.      Project Objectives

4.        The key objective of the Project was to identify an efficient, replicable, and sustainable
model for the provision of instruction in vernacular languages and in English and French, in rural
areas of Vanuatu. Specifically, the project was expected to pilot-test whether Vanuatu could
effectively deliver a package of innovations intended to help the country move towards its
objective of Education for All, defined as formal basic education of good quality through year 8.
The activities to be piloted under the project were the following: (i) increasing access; (ii)
making quality improvements; (iii) enhancing children's learning, thus making them better
prepared either to pursue further education or to continue learning informally throughout life;
(iv) providing education of greater relevance, particularly in respect to using indigenous
languages in preschool education for two years and in year 1, and the teaching of Bislama (the
national lingua franca) as a subject in years 7 and 8; (v) empowering people through the
conservation of their unique languages, cultures and identities; (vi) enhancing social cohesion
and increasing respect for diversity; and (vii) developing and enhancing partnerships among key
stakeholders, including the Government, the churches and other NGOs, parents, communities
and donors.

D.     Project Design

5.        The project consisted of two main components that were to be implemented over a four
year period: (A) access and quality component (US$2.35 million) to improve quality at the
school level, by providing small grants to support good practices in school, improve the physical
environment of the school, and provide adequate equipment and learning materials; and (B)
system reform and capacity building component (US$1.4 million) to strengthen education
management capacity at the central level (i.e., curriculum development, teacher training, sector
and project management etc.) -- this was with a longer term view to enable the Ministry of
Education to replicate the pilot in other communities.

E.     Project Effectiveness and Implementation

6.     There were two conditions for Effectiveness: (i) the Project Management Unit had to be
established, including the appointment of the Project Director, Procurement Specialist, and the
Financial Management Specialist; and (ii) the Project Management Manual had to be adopted by
Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports. As the Project never became Effective, these were no
longer relevant. No part of the Project was implemented.

F.     Credit Cancellation

7.     After Board approval, GOV was reluctant to sign the DCA, and the 18 month signature
deadline for effectiveness lapsed. In January 2003, subsequent to an IDA team visit to Vanuatu,
GOV notified IDA of its interest in reactivating the credit; a nine month extension of the



                                                  2

signature deadline was requested by GOV. The reasons stated by GOV for the deferral of the
signature deadline included: (i) concerns over the vernacular language issue as the Project's main
focus; (ii) the experimental nature of the Project design; (iii) the need for a more system-wide
approach for building on Vanuatu's Education for All agenda; (iv) the Government's capacity to
meet counterpart funding requirements; (v) uncertainty over the scale and scope of the Credit,
including that it might be the precursor to a much larger IDA involvement; and (vi) concern that
an unacceptably large proportion of funds were to meet the cost of international technical
assistance.

8.     In the months following, it was mutually agreed by GOV and IDA management that the
scope of proposed changes to the project were substantial, and that the best recourse would be to
cancel the Credit and design a new project that better reflected GOV's needs.

G.     Lessons Learned

9.     The following lessons seem to emerge from this experience:

   · Government ownership is critical. The primary lesson learned from this project
       experience is the critical importance of securing broad-based government ownership in
       the vital aspects of project preparation. In particular: (i) in reaching a shared
       understanding of perceived problems/sector issues that are to be addressed by the
       project; (ii) in identifying the possible/preferred approaches to address these
       problems/issues; and (iii) in developing a partnership in the project process to ensure
       ownership of the design of the project components and the planned implementation
       strategy.

       It became evident from subsequent IDA staff discussions with GOV, that the
       Government had not been convinced of the idea of introducing vernacular language as a
       medium of instruction in the education system. Ensuring genuine counterpart "buy-in" is
       essential ­ it clearly is not adequate to reach agreement on a document prepared in large
       part by "outsiders". Informal discussions, the building of trust-based partnerships and
       consistent counterpart participation in project preparation and documentation are critical
       tools.

   · Projects should fit into and reflect the Government's overall sector strategy. GOV
       did not feel that the Project was consistent with the priorities of the education sector as
       spelled out in their "Prioritized Action Agenda." The Government also felt that the
       Project was not in line with the World Bank's policy on "Education for All" which had
       been adopted by GOV. The failure to reach a genuine consensus with GOV on a project
       design and thus ensure `fit' with national goals, policies and strategies was a serious
       failing.

   · Importance of the overall macroeconomic framework. Finally, there seemed to have
       been inadequate dialogue with GOV regarding the country's overall macroeconomic
       situation, especially the problems related to the large budget deficit at the time of project
       preparation. In the existing macroeconomic context, the Government was reluctant to



                                                  3

       consider external borrowing for projects. Prior to engaging in detailed project design it is
       critical for project identification missions to gain and verify an understanding of the
       overall economic situation of the country in question, its financial priorities and the
       budgetary implications of the proposed project.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                    4

