Report No. PID7930
Project Name                     Vanuatu-Second Education Project@
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           EP - Primary Education;
ES - Secondary Education
Project ID                       VUPE4823
Borrower(s)                      Republic Of Vanuatu
Implementing Agency
Ministry Of Education,Youth And Sport
Address: P.O. Box 153, Port Vila, Vanuatu
Contact Person: Mr. George Andrews,
Director General
Tel: (678) 22309
Fax: (678) 22849
Email:andrews@vanuatu.com.vu
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 22, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 29, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Independent since 1980 from joint British and French colonial
administration, Vanuatu's 190,000 people live in the South Pacific
archipelago previously known as the New Hebrides. The country derives most
of its income from agriculture (both export and subsistence) and tourism.
An inherited dual-lingual education system directed mainly at preparing
young people for further education and formal employment has become
irrelevant to the needs of the people who speak over 100 Melanesian
languages, who cherish their traditional island way of life, and who will
be unable, for the most part, to find employment in the formal sector. The
inherited education system also promoted an education model which, as it
was expanded, proved an increasingly unsustainable burden on the
Government budget. With IDA support, the Government developed a National
Education Master Plan which would reform the system to provide culturally
relevant and fiscally affordable basic education to all ni-Vanuatu
children. This Plan would be refined and further developed under the
proposed project.Vanuatu places a high value on schooling, but certain
elements of the current education system are: (a) inadequate, because
there are not enough student places after primary year 6; (b) costly and
inefficient, because of high rates of repetition and dropout, because
children are not learning adequately for the costs incurred, and because
it takes 13-14 years to produce a student ready for higher education; (c)
inequitable, because there are widespread regional, urban-rural, and
social differences in education provision; and (d) urban- and
formal-sector oriented and therefore irrelevant, because many among the
educated cannot find employment in the very small formal economy and
therefore most school leavers need to makes their lives in their rural



villages, an environment for which the school system has not prepared them
and from which it has in fact alienated them. There are also widespread
perceptions that the country's language policy in education needs to be
changed, that new partnerships need to be forged to expand the resource
base and improve delivery, and that education planning needs to be
strengthened. The education system is being subjected to increasing
resource constraints at the same time as greater demands are being placed
on it.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed Learning and Innovation Credit (LIC) is to
identify an efficient, replicable, and sustainable model for the provision
of instruction in vernacular languages and in English and French, in rural
areas of Vanuatu. Specifically, the project would pilot-test whether
Vanuatu can effectively deliver a package of innovations intended to help
the country move toward its objective of Education for All, defined as
formal basic education of good quality through year 8. The innovations to
be piloted under the project are expected to: (i) increase access, (ii)
improve quality, (iii) enhance children's learning processes and therefore
make them better prepared either to pursue further education or to
continue learning informally throughout life, (iv) provide education of
greater relevance, (v) empower people through the conservation of their
unique languages, cultures, and identities, (vi) enhance social cohesion
and increase respect for diversity, and (vii) develop and enhance
partnerships among the key stakeholders, including the Government, the
churches and other nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), parents,
communities, and donors. Implemented successfully, the LIC is expected to
lead to a series of follow-on Adaptable Program Credits which would
generalize the successful innovations throughout the country.The key
innovations to be tested in pilot schools under the project would be: (i)
use of indigenous languages in preschool education of two years and in
year 1, (ii) teaching of science and social studies in indigenous
languages in years 2-6, (iii) provision of terminal lower junior secondary
education (years 7-8) in Community Secondary Day Schools for those unable
to attend Junior Secondary Schools (years 7-10), (iv) teaching of Bislama
(the national lingua franca) as a subject in years 7 and 8, (v) greater
parent and community involvement in provision of facilities, in decisions
concerning the school, and specific content of education, and (vi) greater
involvement of churches and other NGOs in the provision of education and
development of learning materials.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA Credit 1964-VAN provided assistance toward expanding access through
school construction, enhancing quality through curriculum development,
teacher training, and textbook production, and improving management
through the provision of equipment and technical assistance. The
Government requested further support to the education sector, for school
construction, development and provision of textbooks, teacher training,
and institutional strengthening. It sought IDA's advice on how its
existing education system might be modified and reformed to address the
sector's issues. IDA is viewed as the best donor for this operation
because of its ability to bring international expertise and experience to
bear on education issues, its objectivity, and its long experience working
with Vanuatu in the education sector.
- 2-



4. Description
The proposed project would pilot the cost-effectiveness of delivering
basic education through community participation (annual consultations,
community works) and partnerships with NGOs (preschool education, language
research and development of educational materials). Component 1: To enable
MEYS to replicate the pilot in other communities, the proposed project
would strengthen education and management capacity at the central level
(curriculum development, teacher training, sector and project management).
Component 2: To improve quality at the school level, the proposed project
would provide small grants to support good practices in school, improve
the physical environment of the school, and provide adequate equipment and
learning materials.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA 3.50
Total Project Cost 3.75
6. Implementation
Executing agencies. Technical project implementation will be handled by
Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports (MEYS), while financial
administration will be handled by the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOF). Policy management. The Ministry of Education, Youth &
Sports (MEYS) will be the responsible agency for project management.
Policy guidance to the project will be provided by a Project Steering
Committee chaired by the MEYS Director General with members from the
Department of Economic & Social Development (of the Ministry of Finance &
Economic Development) and the Department of Strategic Management (of the
Ministry of Infrastructure). Project management. In the Office of the
Director General, the project will be managed by the Director, Policy &
Planning Service who will be designated Project Director (PD). The PD will
be supported by a Project Coordinator (PC) responsible for day-to-day
administration. Operational guidance will be provided by a Project
Development Team chaired by the Director, Policy & Planning Service with
members from the Division of School Education Programs (MEYS), Division of
Administrative Services (MEYS), and the Directorate of Catholic Education
(NGO). Staff services will be provided by the Policy & Planning Service
(which successfully managed PASEP, the first primary and secondary
education project financed by IDA Credit 1964-VAN.)
7. Sustainability
(No discussion of sustainability is required of this learning and
innovation operation.)
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
From IDA's experience in Vanuatu and from other education lending in
Melanesia, notably in Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, lessons in
mounting systemic reform have shown that for such an operation to succeed,
the following must be achieved: (i) ownership by principal beneficiaries,
in this project, the village communities, including parents; (ii)
participation of key stakeholders in civil society, including traditional
village leaders, churches, and political parties; (iii) partnership
between the Government and the private sector, principally NGOs; (iv)
continuing dialogue and consensus-building among political leaders and
groups; and (v) coordinated donor support.
- 3-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         (Not applicable)
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alfonso F. de Guzman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)-473-2527
Fax: (202)-522-7108
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 7,2001
- 4 -



