Report No. 18114
India
Impact Evaluation Report
Comparative Review of Rural Water Systems Experience
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1046-IN)
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project (Credit 2234-IN)
Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project (Credit 2483-IN)
June 30, 1998
Operations Evaluation Department
S; 5' o. t.5a3Zg: e .



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
June 1980           US$1.00              Rs 8.40
March 1991          US$1.00              Rs 17.80
March 1993          US$1.00              RS 31.00
December 1977       US$1.00              Rs. 39.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ERR                 economic rate of return
FYDP                Five-year Development Plan
GNP                 gross national product
GOI                 Government of India
IDA                 International Development Association
IER                 Impact Evaluation Report
LGU                 Local government unit
MWSSB               Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board
MRD&PR              Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (Karnataka)
lcd                 liters per capita per day
NGO                 nongovernmental organization
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
O&M                 operation and maintenance
PHED                Public Health Engineering Department
RWS                 rural water supply
W&S                 water supply and sanitation
Director-General, Operations Evaluation            Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department         Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Acting Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group   Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                       Mr. Tauno Skytta



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1998
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUJTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Impact Evaluation Report on India
Comparative Review of Rural Water Systems Experience
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1046-IN)
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Project (Credit 2234-IN)
Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
(Credit 2483-IN)
More than 70 percent of India's 990 million people live in half a million rural villages where
water-borne diseases are a major health problem. To reduce this problem, over the past two decades
India has implemented major investment programs in rural water supply and sanitation (RWS). World
Bank lending for RWS in India grew from a total of approximately US$120 million in the 1980s to about
US$260 million in the 1990s. Three IDA-funded RWS projects have been completed and two are
ongoing. Two of the completed projects, Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage (Cr. 1046-IN) and
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply (Cr. 2234-IN), and one ongoing project, Kamataka Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation (Cr. 2483-IN), are the subjects of this Impact Evaluation Report (IER). The
OED study was done in partnership with the Center for Institutional Reform and the Informal Sector
(IRIS) at the University of Maryland. IRIS staff carried out the data analysis, contributed sections to the
report, and prepared a background paper on social capital.
The evaluation was conducted in two phases. During a pilot phase the study team reviewed
available background data, developed and field tested the data sheets and questionnaires, elaborated
household selection criteria, identified the appropriate sample size and composition, and conducted pilot
focus group and community interviews. In the second phase, the study fielded teams of local researchers
to administer questionnaires on the household and village levels (in two states, Karnataka and
Maharashtra), collect secondary data, and fill out technical data sheets on each district and village visited
and the operations of its water system. Data were collected from 60 Indian communities (50 project
villages and 10 control villages) through a survey of about 1,100 households. Villages were randomly
selected from among those that had been in operation a minimum of six months. In Karnataka and
Maharashtra the team also conducted a technical evaluation. In Rajasthan the study team only conducted
two simultaneous participatory workshops for stakeholders. In all three states the study team met with
state and district officials and visited facilities constructed by the projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
The evaluation shows that when pre-project social capital levels are high, communities generally
have better performing schemes. The economic benefit of time saved in collecting water is estimated to
produce a potential increase in household income of 30 percent. Finally, the impact on public health in
those communities with the best-performing schemes is stronger than in communities with the worst-
performing ones.
The evaluation also finds that Bank support for the rural water supply schemes in India is
significantly improving the quality of life in project villages. The rural water infrastructure is in place
and functioning, at a per capita cost that compares with cost indicators from other developing countries.
The achievements and impacts of the projects are considerable. Time required for water collection has
been reduced by an average of 85 percent, system operation has improved about 50 percent, and system
hours of operation have become much more regular, and the quality of water has improved. Over 80
percent of consumers in Karnataka and over 50 percent in Maharashtra rate the design of their new
systems satisfactory. Sanitary conditions have improved substantially.
While the various schemes are helping to reduce the deficit in rural water supply and increasing
water coverage, they have done little to foster local organizational capacity. The results of this study
show that involvement of users in the development, implementation, and O&M of water supply systems
has not yet been sufficient to achieve a desirable level of sustainability. Women, the primary water
collectors in most rural households, have the most interest in ensuring that the water and sanitation
service is designed to match their needs and performs well, and they need to be more involved than has
been the case to date.
The study finds that project designers need to adjust the approach to service delivery according
to existing levels of social capital. Special efforts may be necessary to motivate and mobilize community
members if water systems are to operate sustainably in weaker communities. Besides the general lessons
generated by the study (inter alia on the importance of adequate social mobilization, project rules, and
hygiene education; and the efficacy and effectiveness of the community-based approach), policy
recommendations include the advisability of respecting beneficiary aspirations for appropriate levels of
service. Factors such as participation in multiple community activities by water committee members,
participation in system design, participation in system construction, improved beneficiary health, and
satisfactory participation in the water group by women are all positively related to above-average system
performance and should therefore receive special attention during water and sanitation project design.



I
Contents
Preface .............................................................3
1.  Study Methodology and Project Context .............................................................5
The Impact Evaluation Study .............................................................5
Country Context .............................................................5
Rural Water Supply in India before the Project: One Safe Source per Village .............   5
State-specific Pre-project Conditions: Water and Sanitation ..........................................7
GOI Commitment to the Water Sector and Strategy ........................................................8
Study Methods ............................................................9
Questions Studied ............................................................                                         10
2.   Evolution of the Rural Water Paradigm  in India ............................................................  11
RWS in the India Portfolio ............................................................                                11
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project ............................................................    11
Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project ............................................................                13
The Kamataka and Maharashtra Projects ............................................................                     13
The Most Recent Project ............................................................                                   15
The Evolving Paradigm ............................................................                                     16
3.   Project Achievements ............................................................                                            16
Village Surveyed ...................                                                                                   17
Coverage Improvements ...................                                                                              18
Pre- and Post-Project Access ...................                                                                       18
Functioning of Schemes ..........................                                                                      19
Cost of Water Service ..............................                                                                   20
Tariffs and Cost Recovery ..............................                                                               22
Institutional Achievements ..............................                                                              22
Sustainability of Service ..............................                                                               25
Social Capital and Institutional Performance ..............................                                           25
4. Project Impacts .................................... 27
Health Impacts .................................... 28
Economic Impact ....................................                                                                  32
Social Impact ....................................                                                                     35
Institutional Impact ..................................36
This study was conducted under the supervision of Mr. Tauno Skytta, Task Manager. Mr. Ronald
Parker (Evaluation Officer) prepared the report. Ms. Reno Dewina and Mr. Gary Wu
(Consultants) provided research support. Ms. Satu Kahkonen and Mr. Jonathan Isham of the
Center for Institutional Reform and the Informnal Sector (IRIS) at the University of Maryland,
College Park carried out the data analysis, contributed sections to the report, and prepared a
background paper on social capital. The survey was carried out by ORG-MARG in India. Mr.
William Hurlbut edited the report, and Ms. Helen Watkins provided administrative support.



2
5. Findings, Conclusions and Recommendations .............        ............................ 37
Findings .........................................                               37
Conclusions .........................................                            38
Recommendations .........................................                        40
Annexes
1.     Objectives and Components of the Surveyed Projects .........................................   43
2.     Performance indicators: India .........................................          47
Text Tables
3.1  Status of Randomly Selected Schemes.                                                17
3.2  Improved Access to Service, Time Saving.                                            19
3.3  Most Common Scheme Problems .19
3.4    Improved Functioning of Schemes: Service Hours & User Satisfaction .20
3.5  System Components and Costs .21
3.6    Effectiveness of Village-level Institutions .22
3.7  Training and Capacity-Building Achievements .24
3.8  Village Participation Indicators .24
3.9    Selected Indicators of Social Capital in Maharashtra and Karnataka .26
3.10   Comparing Group Means for the Best and Worst Performing W&S Services             27
4.1    Diarrhea: Incidence, Treatment Sought and Mortality in Indian Project Sites      28
4.2  Improved Health and Current Water Source .30
4.3  Time Saving and Current Source of Water .34
Boxes
1.1  Problem Villages ...................                                                 6
2.1    Project Rules: Maharashtra .................                                      14
2.2 Project Rules: Kamataka .15
4.1    Water Supply Improvement Caused an increased Density of Rural Areas in Kerala   34
Figures
4. la   Improved Health and Previous Water Source: Karnataka .29
4. lb   Improved Health and previous Water Source: Maharashtra .29
4.2a   Increased Water Consumption and Previous Water Source: Kamataka .31
4.2b   Increased Water Consumption and Previous Water Source: Maharashtra .31
4.3    Average Reduction in Time a Household Spends Daily Collecting Water              32
4.4a   Time Savings and Previous Water Source: Kanataka .33
4.4b   Time Savings and previous Water Source: Maharashtra .33
4.5  Impact on Social Interaction in Communitim .35
4.6  Share of Women in Water Committees .36



3
Preface
This Impact Evaluation Report (IER) assesses the medium- and long-term impacts of the
rural water infrastructure constructed with the proceeds of three International Development
Association (IDA) credits. The purpose was to determine the impact of Bank lending for rural
water and sanitation in India, as well as to compare areas that had benefited from previous
interventions with areas yet to be served.
Basic Credit Data (actual)
US$     Board
Credit Number  Project Name                                 Million   Approval   Completion
1046        Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage                80.0   06/25/80    12/31188
2234         Maharashtra Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation  109.9   06/05/91    06/30/98
'24S3        Karnataka Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation  92.0    06/04/93    12/31/99
The Operations Evaluation Departnent (OED) study team visited India in November and
December 1997 and conducted on-site inspections in 32 villages (12 in Kamataka and 20 in
Maharashtra). The selected villages covered the entire implementation period (from 1981 to the
present). In each village researchers interviewed the local water users' group and administered
questionnaires to randomly selected households. The study mission also met with state and
district officials, visited facilities constructed by the projects, and conducted a technical
evaluation.
The study team extends its gratitude to Brian Grover (peer reviewer) for his helpful
comments on the work in progress. The survey was conducted by ORG/MARG India and was
supervised by the Center for Institutional Reform and the Informal Sector (IRIS) at the University
of Maryland, College Park. Research in the field was conducted over a period of about three
months. The study team particularly wishes to acknowledge the participation and facilitation
during the field work of the UNDP/World Bank Regional Water and Sanitation Group for South
Asia, Messrs. K. M. Minnatullah and A. K. Sengupta, and World Bank Task Managers Mr. G. V.
Abhyankar and Mr. S. Sarkar.
Copies of the draft IER were sent to the officials and agencies of the Government of India
for review and comment, but no comments were received.






5
1.  Study Methodology and Project Context
The Impact Evaluation Study
1.1    The main objectives of this impact evaluation are to examine the relevance and assess the
impacts of the Bank's assistance program on the performance of the rural water supply and
sanitation sector in India. The study focused its field research on two projects: the Maharashtra
Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project and the Kamataka Rural Water Supply
and Environmental Sanitation Project. It also selectively examined the experience of the
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project through limited field visits and a stakeholder
workshop. The results of a recent OED evaluation of the Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation
Project' also contributed to the study.
Country Context
1.2    With a GNP per capita of US$380 (iin 1996) and a third of its people living below the
official poverty line, India ranks among the world's poorest countries. Life expectancy is 62 years,
but infant mortality is 68 per 1,000 live births, one of the highest in the world. Half of the nation's
adults-including two thirds of the women--are illiterate; the adult labor force has an average of
2.4 years of schooling, even though India has one of the world's largest pools of internationally
qualified professionals, engineers, and scientists. More than 70 percent of the nation's 990 million
people live in half a million rural villages, where the poverty is worst and illiteracy and infant
mortality are highest. Improving the supply of water and sanitation services to those villages is
essential to bettering the health and well-being of India's rural population: water-borne diseases
are a major health problem and affect some 80 percent of infants and children nationwide.
Rural Water Supply in India Before the Projects: One Safe Source Per Village
1.3    Over the past two decades India has implemented major investment programs in rural
water supply and sanitation. By the early 1990s (when the Maharashtra and Karnataka projects
were under preparation), the Government of India (GOI) could confidently estimate that about 95
percent of all rural villages in India had access to at least one safe water source. A safe water
source, as defined by the GOI, provides potable water and is free of contaminants such as
excessive salinity, iron, fluorides, and guinea worm (this definition is used throughout this report).
Another criterion the GOI set for public investments was accessibility: to be considered for use
with a village system, a water source had to be no farther than 1.6 kilometers from the village.2
Villages not meeting these criteria, the so-called problem villages (Box 1.1), were given priority
for water supply development.
1. OED auditedthe Keralaproject(Cr. 1622-lN) in 1998.
2. In a piped water supply system, the govemment uses the following consumption standards in system design:
standpost yields of 40 liters per capita per day (lcd); house connections (or yard taps) should receive 70 lcd.



6
Box 1.1. Problem Villages
Nationally, problem villages are those meeting any of the following conditions: (1) there are no
wells; (2) wells are only seasonal; (3) wells produce water that does not meet drinking water standards; or
(4) the distance to an adequate water source (according to the central government definition) is more than
1.6 kilometers.
States differ slightly in the way they define problem villages. The responsible sector ministry in
each state establishes a definition based on the availability of water resources and the most common health
problems. For example, the criteria for the Government of Rajasthan are based on the incidence of diarrheal
disease plus the normal considerations (distance from water sources, salinity, presence of guinea wonn).
The Government of Maharashtra has set a maximum distance of 0.5 km between the farthest house and the
water source, excluding sources where the depth of water exceeds 15 meters and groundwater is
contaminated by salinity, iron, fluoride, and several other toxic elements. Furthermore, villages with
endemic cholera or guinea worm receive preference. T'he Government of Karnataka has reduced the
acceptable distance to source from 1.6 km to 1.0 km and reduced the elevation differential from 100 meters
elevation to 50 meters elevation for hilly areas.
1.4    During project preparation, Bank and GOI staff were aware that, despite important
improvements in water quality and availability, potential health benefits had been undermined by
maintenance problems, underutilization, and the occasional use of unsafe sources.3 In the early
1990s, infant mortality rates in rural areas were still some 70 percent higher than in urban areas.
This was due, in part, to low usage of water from the "one safe source." Low usage follows from
insufficient supply, distance, and social pressures, which sometimes inhibit lower-status groups
from sharing a water point used by the more privileged. Some studies indicate that the usage of
safe sources diminishes if the distance exceeds 150 meters and alternative sources (even unsafe
ones) are available.4
1.5    At project preparation, then, it was clear that the supply of water from "one safe source"
was inadequate to meet demand in most villages, even when their schemes were fully operational.
At any given time, though, about one fourth of the schemes was out of operation. Therefore, the
potential impact from higher service levels, improved sanitation, and hygiene/health education
was expected to be great.
1.6    Before the projects, several programs had been initiated to promote hygiene education
and appropriate sanitation in rural areas, but they proved ineffective because of supply
interruptions and shortfalls, as well as because the demand for improved sanitation facilities
remained unmet. Less than 3 percent of the rural population used sanitary latrines at the time of
project preparation. Improved drainage and solid waste disposal were not common.
3. These issues were identified in a Bank study "Strategy Paper, RuralWater Supply and Sanitation", February 1989.
The strategy paper (prepared with the assistance of the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program) established
the basis for formulation of objectives and the strategy for the next generation of rural water supply and sanitation
projects in Maharashtra and Karnataka.
4. Churchill, A., D. de Ferranti, R. Roche, C. Tager, AA. Walters, and A. Yazer. (1987) Time for a Change. World
Bank Discussion PaperNo. 18. Washington D.C.



7
State-specific Pre-project Conditions: Water and Sanitation
Rajasthan
1.7    Rajasthan has atotal population of 44 million (1991 census) , of which about 77 percent
live in rural areas. Within the rural population, 18 percent are scheduled castes and 15 percent are
scheduled tribes. Rajasthan's literacy rate of about 39 percent is the second lowest among all the
states in India and well below the all-India rate of about 52 percent.
1.8    By 1979 (when the Rajasthan projecl: was under preparation), about 3,800 villages
(almost all of them classified at project appraisal as problem villages), with a population of about
6.3 million, had been provided with piped water supplies, mainly through standposts. The state-
wide service coverage was about 24 percent iin 1979. The unserved population relied on shallow
wells, remote surface water sources, or rainwater collection. About 3 percent were served by water
supplied through public handpumps. The service levels were similar to those in other rural areas
throughout India.
1.9    Sanitary facilities were generally lacking in the rural areas, and no program had yet
evolved to improve the situation.
Karnataka
1.10   Karnataka has a total population of about 45 million (1991 census), about 31 million
(68.9 percent) of which live in rural areas. Scheduled castes make up about 16 percent of the rural
population, scheduled tribes about 4 percent. Karnataka was one of the first states in India to
provide at least one safe source for each village.
1.11   In the early 1980s, about 70 percent of the state's villages did not have water supplies
meeting the GOI criteria. By mid-1991, after implementation of a large-scale program all villages
had at least one safe water source. Per capita consumption levels were quite low, however, partly
because of long hauling distances, particularly during the dry seasons when many seasonal water
sources go dry. Later, when Karnataka reduced its distance criterion (see Box 1.1), in the schemes
constructed according to the old criterion, 100 percent safe source coverage was no longer the
norm.
1.12   Kamataka experienced three successive droughts in the 1980s, which increased the
competition for the limited available supply of water. Before the project, some 35 percent of the
27,000 villages were served entirely by handpumps drawing on either borewells or shallow wells;
65 percent were served by combined piped water supply and handpump well schemes (about a
fifth of these were mini-schemes consisting of a cistem with four taps). Knowledgeable people in
the sector estimate that about 40 percent of the rural population was consuming less than 20 liters
per capita per day (lcd) and that consumption levels rarely went beyond 30 lcd, even among the
villages served by better-functioning piped schemes.
1.13   At project preparation, about 2 percent of the rural population had access to a latrine that
met minimum sanitary conditions. Diarrheal diseases were among the main health problems,
making hygiene education and sanitation improvements high developmental priorities in
Kamataka.



8
Maharashtra
1.14   Maharashtra is the largest state in the country, and its literacy rate is about 10 percent
above the national average. The 1991 census estimated its population at about 79 million-with
61 percent living in rural areas. About 25 percent of the state's inhabitants are either scheduled
castes or tribes.
1.15   By about 1990, the rural water situation in Maharashtra was nearly the same as in
Kamataka. Public officials claimed that access to the one safe source was better than the all-India
average of 95 percent. There are no statistics in Maharashtra for consumption levels before the
project, but groundwater is less common in Maharashtra than in Kamataka. Hence the state has
more piped systems-which often are regional-conveying water from distant sources to (often)
multiple villages. The state has no water supply mini-schemes. Of those families that had some
water access, about 52 percent were served by handpump wells and 48 percent were served by
piped schemes. Only about one fourth of the families served by piped systems had house
connections; the rest were supplied at public standposts. Again, though, usage was low because of
the long distance to the source; and during the dry season many handpump wells went dry. About
5 percent relied solely on traditional (unsafe) sources, though a far greater percentage used them
sporadically.
1.16   Sanitation standards in the state were above the all-India average but still generally low.
Only about 5 percent of the rural population had access to sanitary latrines and there was a
consequent high incidence of diarrheal diseases.
Local Institutional Arrangements
1.17   Before the project, water systems in Kamataka were mainly operated by local village
governments with assistance from district government units (Zilla Panchayat)5 as necessary on
major technical repairs and equipment replacement. Maharashtra had a similar arrangement that
involved different types of local governments6 and the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage
Board (MWSSB). In Rajasthan, rural water and sanitation (RWS) was solely the responsibility of
PHED. In all states, funding came mostly from the central and state governments.
GOI Commitment to the Water Sector and Strategy
1.18   The GOI has normally spelled out its commitment to water supply and sanitation
priorities in a sector strategy paper updated during preparation of its five-year development plans
(FYDPs). The seventh FYDP (1985-90) particularly focused on RWS and identified the following
key issues and strategic objectives:
(a)    Community participation. Communities need to be given an opportunity to
participate in planning, implementation, and operation and maintenance (O&M)
of their water supply and sanitation systems through village committees.
5. Water systems were usually operated by Mandal Panchayat (local government units that manage 10 villages). Zilla
Panchayats operate under the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (MRD&PR).
6. Gram Panchayat, local governments that cover just one village.



9
(b)    O&Mof water and sanitation systems. Although greatly improved during the
1980s, the institutional and financial demands of O&M continue to be major
burdens as coverage and service levels increase.
(c)    House connections (yard taps). The GOI's policy in the past discouraged the
increase of house connections in the name of better service equity. As demand for
private connections has grown considerably, future schemes will need to
accommodate more such connections.
(d)    Cost recovery. Cost recovery-even generating funds to cover the O&M costs of
RWS schemes-has received little attention. Handing over O&M responsibilities
to rural villages is expected to improve this situation, but the capital costs of new
investments will continue to come from central and state funds for some time.
1.19   The eighth FYDP (1992-97) further emphasized the above strategies, and project designs
included specific actions to attain these strategic objectives. Particularly in the Kamataka project,
the design included testing the effectiveness of community participation. It did so through the
implementation of 12 pilot schemes (one in each district), encouraging private (house)
connections, and demanding that the local government (Mandal), together with water committees,
establish tariffs that would fully cover the O&M costs. The eighth FYDP also required that
sanitation be linked with water supply improvements and health and hygiene education activities
to create a greater demand for latrine construction.
1.20   The funding of water and sanitation sector investments by central and state sources has
dramatically increased over the past decade. By the early 1 990s, the total funding of the sector
investments was about 3 percent of the national budget. Of this, some 60 percent was allocated to
RWS investments. Although RWS is a state subject, central funding continues to increase and is
currently about 40 percent of all RWS investments.
Study Methods
1.21  In November 1997, OED began a series of activities in India that included fielding teams
of researchers to administer questionnaires at the household, village, and district levels; collecting
secondary data; and filling out technical data sheets on each district and village visited and the
operation of its water system. Data were collected from 60 Indian communities through a survey
of 1,100 households and 25 water committees in Karnataka and 25 local government units in
Maharashtra.
1.22 - The study started with a pilot phase during which researchers reviewed available
secondary data, tested data sheets and questionnaires, developed household selection criteria,
identified the appropriate sample size and composition, and conducted pilot focus group and
community interviews. The study team compiled lists of all villages that have had access to
potable water through the projects for about six months or more and selected survey villages at
random. Neighborhoods and households to be polled were selected randomly from voting lists of
all village adults. The household survey was conducted by carefully trained interviewers; during
the pilot testing, the interviewers were under constant supervision to ensure consistency in the
way the questionnaire was administered. The interviews were conducted at times convenient to
the villagers to ensure maximum participation by both women and men. Ten villages that never



10
benefited from a Bank-financed water project and have characteristics similar to served villages
were included as control villages.
1.23   To complement the data collected with the questionnaires, the study team met with local
water committees and beneficiary groups. Participants were asked about the quality of service,
problems with system design or social interaction, and factors that contribute to the success or
failure of rural water schemes. A workshop held in Rajasthan addressed similar questions and
provided useful qualitative information.
Questions Studied
1.24   The study addresses questions related to outcome and impact in three areas: project
preparation, project design, and implementation. The principal research questions are as follows:
Project Preparation
*   What has been the involvement of local institutions in the preparation process?
*   What are the characteristics of the project institutional framework? To what degree
was the project supply or demand driven? How are these factors associated with
success or failure?
*   What has been the participation of local stakeholders?
*   How was the water extraction technology chosen? Was the participation of local
stakeholders in technology selection adequate?
Project Design
-  What is the relationship between eligibility criteria, nature of village contributions,
the delegation of work and responsibility, cost recovery, and observed project
outcomes?
*   To what degree was post-project follow-up and technical support included in design?
Implementation
*   What have been the projects' achievements, and what have been their impact?
*   What are the key ingredients for a successful project or sustainable operation of a
water point?
*   How significant are project requirements for guiding field actions and
communication with beneficiaries?
*   What are the reasons for failure of rural water projects?



11
1.25   Pilot open-ended interviews were conducted with Bank staff early in the research process.
During the field research, the study team interviewed representatives of borrower agencies.
Bilateral agencies and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) working in India have also shared
their experiences with the researchers.
2. Evolution of the Rural Water Paradigm in India
RWS in the India Portfolio
2.1    Bank lending for rural water and sanitation in India has grown significantly during the
1990s, increasing from US$120 million in the 1980s to US$260 million in the 1990s. Three RWS
projects have been completed and two are ongoing. The completed projects are the Rajasthan
Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project, and the
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project. The Kamataka Water
Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project and the Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (Ln. 4056-IN) are ongoing. These projects show a clear line of progression
from a supply-driven, top-down development strategy to a more demand-driven, community-
based approach.
2.2    This chapter looks at the degree to which India's Bank-funded RWS projects have
characteristics of community-based water supply and sanitation and whether the projects were
intended to be old- or new-style undertakings. In a demand-responsive approach, project rules
tend to emphasize the provision of "appropriate" (low-cost) options to the community, assuming
that many communities could not afford higher levels of service such as house connections.
Community-based systems in rural areas7 are invariably characterized by beneficiary participation
in system administration and direct local responsibility for all or certain aspects of operation and
maintenance.
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project
2.3    The RWS component of the Rajasthan project, within what was largely an urban water
supply and sanitation (W&S) project, sought to improve water supply for about 2,000 villages.
The government, in this case the Rajasthan PHED, assessed the needs and made the technology
and cost decisions without consulting the beneficiaries, clearly an old-style exercise. The RWS
component consisted of handpump well schemes and motorized pumped schemes (often using
tubewells as a source), with storage tanks to provide service during hours when the pumps were
not in operation and to accommodate periods of high use and limited distribution mains. What
makes this project a first step toward the new paradigm is, for the first time, the project rules
emphasized consumer responsibility for covering all O&M costs.
2.4    After the infrastructure for the Rajasthan project was completed in 1988, without fully
enforcing the cost-recovery conditions, the Rajasthan PHED took responsibility for the O&M of
7. Community-based systems are also becoming common in peri-urban areas.



12
the new schemes. PHED has also gradually begun to expand and upgrade the schemes with grant
funding wherever the need has arisen.
2.5    An OED evaluation of the Rajasthan project in 1990 concluded that more than 4,200
villages were better served because the physical infrastructure was built. Further, the schemes
were largely operating as planned, except for the proposed tariffs, which were never imposed in
most rural villages. The evaluation went on to note that financial targets were never attained, so
the daily delivery of water was still being subsidized. Also, the institutional development had
been minimal as the implementation capacity of the various units was compromised by political
pressures; the design process had been inadequate because of its rigid approach and overly strict
adherence to prototype designs; and a policy on finance was left for future development.
2.6    As part of this study, OED organized The Impact Evaluation Workshop on the World
Bank-Assisted Rural Water Supply Project in Rajasthan in Jaipur on December 16, 1997.8 PHED
staff and other stakeholder groups that attended evaluated the project achievements and identified
factors that enhanced and constrained the achievement of desirable outcomes. During the
workshop, there was widespread agreement that the project's benefits fell in the following areas:
Greater Access andAvailability
-   Clean, safe water available for the first time
*   Twice-daily service has permitted new uses for clean water in the homes
*   Scheduled castes and tribes have adequate access for the first time
Health
* Certain diseases were eliminated, the prevalence of others was greatly reduced
*   Health is generally better, especially among children
*   Greater awareness of environmental hygiene issues
Social and Economic
*   Poor have access to clean water for the first time
*   Reduction in untouchability
*   Water takes a smaller share of household resources, including time
8. The participatory evaluation workshop was the first of its kind in India. PHED, in its report on the event, noted that
"the response was very enthusiastic and the ideas liberally flowed ... the views will be taken care of in future projects so
that the sentiment of the user group is accommodated and the future projects are more in tune with the expectation of
the user group."



13
2.7    The workshop participants noted new challenges facing project-funded systems. Among
these were rising levels of expectation in several areas. For example, people are now aware of
drainage problems, conflicts over wastage sometimes arise, and in the more urbanized rural areas
the increased supply of water turns the streets into mudholes. Additionally, many users are
demanding sanitation; parents particularly want improved water and sanitation services in the
local schools. The small contribution toward O&M has lead to strong demands for increased
community participation in a range of decisions affecting the operation of the water schemes.
These include demands for public consultation on decisions regarding the capacity of storage
tanks, commissioning of civil works, and major purchases; insistence on stiffer penalties for poor
performance by contractors; demands for increased participation of local government in system
operation; and numerous requests for the authorization of local water committees. This
conjunction of rising expectations and increased awareness bodes well for future community
involvement. Other common complaints included the lack of adequate participation in system
repair decisions, the inadequacy of water storage capacity, and the number of unresolved disputes
regarding location of key infrastructure components and land rights.
Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project
2.8    This project, like the one in Rajasthan, took a top-down approach. In this case the
implementer was the Kerala Water Authority, an agency the state government had created out of
its PHED.
2.9    Although this project also attempted a cost-recovery scheme, it was almost completely
dysfunctional. The tax levied to cover costs rarely reached KWA, which then had to cover costs
from its state-subsidized budget.
The Karnataka and Maharashtra Projects
2.10   Two more-recent projects (in Maharashtra and Karnataka) clearly attempted to
decentralize the responsibility of O&M, that is, to involve the beneficiaries of the new supply
facilities in their O&M and upkeep. In this undertaking, however, there were serious conflicts and
contradictions between the aims of the project and its design (rules, management structure,
budget). Although early Maharashtra project documents highlighted the importance of community
involvement and committed project staff to a participatory approach, in practice the communities'
roles and the functions they were expected to perform were inadequately detailed at the design
phase, and they received scant attention thereafter (see Box 2.1).



14
Box 2.1 Project Rules: Maharashtra
Funding
* Water supply facilities were to be financed through grant funds from state and central government
sources with no contribution anticipated from consumers.
* Envirommental sanitation facilities were to be funded jointly by the district government and state
government for drainage works (50 percent each).
*  Funding for household latrines was to come from the district and state govenunents (this involved a
direct subsidy of 50 to 75 percent) with the remaining 50 to 25 percent to come from beneficiary
contributions.9
Operation, Maintenance, and Tariffs
After completion of the schemes, the MSSWB was to transfer the schemes to the district
governments and local governments for O&M, as appropriate: District governments were to be responsible
for the O&M of all regional water supply schemes. Local governments were to be responsible for the O&M
of individual village-based water supply schemes, including handpurnps, as well as for O&M of sanitation
facilities.
The costs of O&M were to be covered as follows: District govemrnents were to transfer sufficient
funds to a separate "Fund for O&M of RWS Works," (including those funds generated from bulk water
charges) to cover the regional schemes' O&M costs. (The cost component for O&M up to the
boundaries of connected villages normally represents 20 percent of district governments' regular
income.) Local governments were to set and collect water tariffs to cover the O&M costs of those segment,
of the schemes that lie within the village boundaries, as well as the O&M of handpumps. In addition, this
tariff should cover bulk water charges in cases where the village is connected to a regional scheme.
Water and sanitation comnuittees were to be established in each village, but project documents fail
to specify their role in the O&M of the schemes. As envisaged, NGOs were to have a role in supporting the
PPMU in community mobilization, hygiene, and health education promotion; implementation of pilot
schemes with a special emphasis on promoting women's involvement; and training.
2.11   The Kamataka project, designed just two years after Maharashtra, was a major step
forward for community involvement. Its design included clearly defined attributions for local
water committees and basic rules that govemed the manner in which the communities are
expected discharge their duties (see Box 2.2).
9. In addition, the subsidy was limited by an upper ceiling which was increased to Rs 3,500 per unit in 1995, thus
making the sanitation programpractically free and supply driven.



15
Box 2.2 Project Rules: Karnataka
Funding
* Water supply facilities were to be financed through grant funds from state and central govermnent
sources with no contribution anticipated from consumers.
* Environmental sanitation facilities were to be funded as follows: For drainage works, communities
would fund 30 percent and state government would fund 70 percent. The state government would
provide subsidies for household latrine construction at Rs. 1,650 (69 percent) for low-income and Rs.
1,200 (33 percent) for higher-income groups, the remainder of the costs would be beneficiary
contributions.
Operation, Maintenance, and Tariffs
After completion of the schemes, the state government and project implement unit were to transfer
the schemes to beneficiary communities for O&M. The costs of O&M were to be covered fully by the
beneficiary communities, including bulk water charges (for villages that get their water from a regional
scheme). The Mandals, a local government unit that governs a cluster of 10 villages, set tariffs for the
various categories of households, charging one rate for families with house connections, and another
(lower) rate for those using standposts or handpumps. These tariffs typically include a connection fee
(ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 600) and a charge for water consumption to be set at a level sufficient to cover
the costs of O&M. In addition:
*   the costs of O&M for environmental sanitation facilities were to be covered by the communities (for
drainage works) through a maintenance charge;
*   households had to pay off the loans they took out for private latrines;
*   the state government was to issue regulations (Mandal bylaws) for establishment of VWSCs and,
through local governments, to empower the VWSCs to operate the schemes and levy charges to cover
operating costs; and
*   the state government was also to issue contracts with local NGOs to pay them for: (i) organizing
VWSCs, (ii) assisting authorities with village planning, (iii) monitoring the initial performance of
VWSCs, and (iv) promoting sanitation and health education.
The Most Recent Project
2.12   The ongoing RWS project in Uttar Pradesh (UP, approved in 1996) is the latest iteration
of community-based RWS and a significant milestone. The project design is based on the
experience of earlier Indian RWS projects as well as on the lessons learned in other countries with
similar RWS situation. Incorporation of these lessons in the project makes it the most demand-
responsive endeavor in the subsectorto date.'0
10. India has had many achievements in the RWS sector. These were accomplished for instance through an accelerated
RWS program financed and coordinated by the Rajiv Ghandi National Drinking Water Mission as well as through the
two latest projects reviewed by this study. The lessons from these achievements are documented in detail in the "Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Review", which was carried out jointly by the GOI and the World Bank in 1997.



16
The Evolving Paradigm
2.13   By world standards, the Indian projects reviewed by the study are still in transition from
one approach to the other. The earlier ones have certain demand-responsive characteristics
(primarily, emphasizing beneficiary participation in cost recovery) but include no mechanism that
will permit meaningful local involvement. Change is slow. Implementing agencies are staffed by
utility engineers long accustomed to making important decisionsfor the beneficiaries rather than
with them. OED evaluations of early water projects in the region showed clearly that a new
approach was needed for rural communities. The villagers, who know most aspects of their own
situation better than anyone else, choose the cost and level of service they need. Moreover, they
are more willing to repair systems that respond to their requirement, repairs can be accomplished
more quickly when local bodies (village institutions) handle them, and costs can be kept at
affordable levels.
2.14   During the seventh FYDP, the "top-down" orientation began evolving into a community-
based approach. The first attempt to design such a project in India was the Maharashtra project.
Looking at the India water portfolio in broad terms, projects slowly shifted toward the "new"
model and away from the "old" approaches over the 15-year period from Rajasthan to the present.
Stated differently, the more recent the project the more elements of the "bottom-up," demand-
based approach are likely to be present in the project's rules and approach (in general terms).
Water projects such as those in Kerala and Rajasthan can be classified as bureaucratic.
Government agencies made all the service level and design decisions, put the physical
infrastructure in place, O&M is handled by government agencies, and expansions need to be
covered with grant funding. The Rajasthan projects was implemented by PHED; Kerala was
designed by PHED but managed by a PHED spin-off. More recent projects, such as Maharashtra,
and Kamataka have a role for a local body (albeit governmental in the former), but local
involvement in design and O&M is weak, and not much attention has been given to finance. The
Kamataka project is the first to require establishment of a water committee that is responsible for
O&M, has a role in training, and must make a cash contribution for environmental sanitation
(latrines and drainage) to receive funding for water supply improvements from the central and
state governments.
2.15   As none of the projects visited by this study team can be categorized as full community-
based water supply and sanitation, we have tried to use each project as a separate window on the
transition process. One question the following chapters address is: as projects move along the
spectrum from no local participation toward full participation, is there a noticeable difference in
results that can be attributed to changes in the level of stakeholder involvement? To give a more
project-specific perspective, the achievements and impacts of those achievements will be
reviewed in detail for two projects, Karnataka and Maharashtra (Chapters 3 and 4).
3.   Project Achievements
3.1   The two projects subjected to in-depth review by the study were designed to improve
rural water supply and sanitation coverage in all districts in the two states (12 districts in
Kamataka, 10 districts in Maharashtra). The Karnataka project is still under implementation.
Work in the field has been under way for about four and a half years; the project is intended to be



17
completed by the end of 1999. The Maharashtra project was implemented over seven years
starting in 1991. See Annex 1 for a discussion of project objectives and components.
Villages Surveyed
3.2        Table 3.1 lists the surveyed villages (25 in each state)"1, dates each'scheme was
commissioned and handed over, and the period of operation from commissioning through the
time of the survey (December 1997). The range in operation times is between four months and 45
Table 3.1. Status of Randomly Selected Schemes
Karnataka                                                           Maharashtra
Village            Date of        Date of       Months in            Village           Date of        Date of       Months in
Commissioning   Handover        Operation                           Commissioning   Handover        Operation
Since                                                              Since
Commissioninga                                                     Conunissioninga
through 12/97                                                      through 12/97
AdahI                Aug-97            Aug-97              5           Asangaon                            Aug-97              5
Arkerab                                Oct-95              27          Bamanwadi         Aug-95            Jan-96             28
Bendigere                              Sep-97              4           Bhopala                             Aug-95             29
Bilgumba                               Aug-97              5           Bhose             Jan-95            Jan-96             36
Bylanarsapur                           Sep-97              3           Bhoyara                             Aug-95             29
Chandakavadi         Jul-97            nothanded           6           Chata                               Jul-96             18
over
Dagmakatta                             Feb-96             22           Dedale                              Aug-97              5
Garalgunji           Jul-97            Aug-97              5           Dimbe                               Apr-96             21
Hally                Aug-97            Sep-97              4           Eksal                               Apr-96             21
Hiremyageri          Sep-97            Sep-97              4           Gharod                              Mar-97             10
Hombadimandoddi    Jun-95              Mar-96             31           Khatwal           Jan-96            Apr-96             24
Kembliganahally                        Jan-96             24           Nimbori           Apr-97            Nov-96              S
Kemmale              Sep-97            Sep-97              4           Osarwadi                            Aug-97              5
Kinihal   -          Sep-97            Sep-97              4           Patgaon           Jan-95            Jan-96             36
Kudremani            Jul-97            Aug-97              5           Pimpalwadi        Mar-96            Aug-96             21
Kyathanahally        completed         not handed                      Rangaon           Apr-97            Apr-96              8
over
Madlur               Jan-95            Sep-95              36          Salgara           Jul-96            Oct-96             18
Manihal              Jan-97            Feb-97              11          Sawargaon                           Aug-95             29
Nagathihally                           May-95              32          Shahjahanpur      Mar-96            Jun-96             21
Saidapur             Aug-97            Aug-97              5           Sulewadi          Mar-96            Nov-96             21
Sathnurb             Aug-97            Sep-97              4           Taharpur                            Apr-96             21
Screedaragadda       Aug-97            Sep-97              4           Tarapur                             Apr-96             21
Thyamagondl          Apr-94            Jun-94             45           Waghivali                           Apr-96             21
Udigala              not commissioned                      -           Waksai                              Oct-97              I
Veerapum             Aug-97            Aug-97              4           Walipur           Mar-96            Mar-97             21
a. When commissioning date is not available, duration is calculated from hand over through December 1997.
b. No Water Committee.
months for Kamataka and between five months and 36 months for Maharashtra;12 the average
operational experience was about 13 months and 19 months, respectively. Although this
operational experience is substantial in technical terms, the length of time each water committee
11. The study also surveyed five control villages in each state, thus the total number of villages studied is 60.
12. In Kamataka one scheme had been in operation only three months at the time of the survey; in Maharashtra one
scheme had been in operation only one month.



18
or local body has had O&M responsibility is much shorter. The maximum is 43 months
(Thyamagondi in Karnataka), but many schemes have been operated by the responsible group
only for a couple of months.
Coverage Improvements
3.3    The Karnataka project is about 80 percent through its implementation cycle. In only 22
of the surveyed villages has the scheme been fully handed over to the water committee; in two
other villages, although the system has been handed over, there is no functioning committee yet.
3.4   Interviews with VWSCs in the villages where the survey was conducted indicate that, at
least in 65 percent of the surveyed villages, the entire population now has access to project water.
In the remainder, while the amount or quality of potable water has improved, full coverage has yet
to be obtained. The household survey shows that about 45 percent of the households in the newly
served villages get their service through house connections (including yard taps); another 42
percent get service from standposts. The remaining 13 percent of the population depend on
handpump wells for safe water. The survey also shows that less than 10 percent of the house
connection and standpost users rely on the new system exclusively. This means (and the survey
shows) that a large majority (90 percent) supplement the water supplied by the project
infrastructure with water from traditional sources-generally for laundry, bathing, and the care of
domestic animals.
3.5    The Maharashtra project is now completed and is assumed to have achieved its physical
objectives. In the surveyed villages, the systems have been handed over to the respective district
government or local government units.
3.6   In study interviews district chief executive officers indicated that the entire population of
the target villages should now have access to project-supplied water. Of the randomly selected
households, about 27 percent said that they have a house connection (or a yard tap), another 48
percent obtain their water from public standposts. The remaining population (25 percent) uses
handpump wells. The survey also shows that only about 17 percent of the households that have
house connections (or yard taps) use the new system as their exclusive source; over 80 percent of
the households still supplement their project supplied water from non-project sources.
Pre- and Post-project Access
3.7    While the study team was concerned that in some instances social rather than technical or
geographic reasons might impede access to water in the project area, this was not reflected in the
survey results. Nonetheless, the higher service levels were probably distributed as they were for
social as much as for economic reasons.
3.8    The survey indicates that the distance traveled to collect water has been reduced by nearly
90 percent (from 2.5 km to about 280 m after the project) in Kamataka. The time required for
water collection has also dropped dramatically: from about six hours to nearly one hour (a
decrease of over 80 percent). The survey of a group of households who are not users of the new
system reveals that the distance to collect water remains at about 3.5 km and the daily time spent
is nearly four hours (Table 3.2).



19
Table 3.2. Improved Access to Service, Time Saving
Indicator                                            Kamataka    Maharashtra
Reduction in time spent daily collectig water (minutes)  262           138
Reduction in distance to collect water (meters)         2,220         2,070
3.9    In Maharashtra, the project reduced the distance traveled to collect water by over 85
percent (from 2.4 km to about 330 meters). The time used daily for collecting water also dropped
dramatically from slightly over three hours to less than one hour a day, a reduction of about 70
percent. The distance and time indicators for non-users in Maharashtra remain at 2.7 km and
nearly three hours.
Functioning of Schemes
3.10   The survey and interviews collected information on various aspects of system functioning
such as prevalence of leakages, system failures, service problems at critical points, and quality of
water. Table 3.3 summarizes the results.
Table 3.3. Most Common Scheme Problems
Indicator                                                    Kamataka      Maharashtra
,._..... .................. ......................................................................................................................................................................................... ..............................
Leakage in network (% of communities)                          54.5            60
Leakage in standpipes or house connections (% of conmunities)   0.4            35.1
Frequent system failure (% of communities)                     25.0            57.1
Inadequate water at critical points (% of communities)         50.0           50.0
Poor quality of water:
- colored (% of communities)                                   14.3           11.8
- turbid (% of communities)                                    25.0           27.8
3.11   About 55 percent of Karnataka system users and 60 percent of Maharashtra users report
major system leakages. In contrast, less than 1 percent of users in Kamataka and 35 percent of
users in Maharashtra reported leakages at the yard tap and standpipe. This indicates that small
repairs are more likely to be carried out in a timely fashion than larger ones. While this is
understandable because small repairs are easier to do, leaving water mains carrying large volumes
of water unrepaired poses a serious threat to an adequate supply. Interviews with water
committees in Kamataka found that their water systems go completely out of service three to four
times a year; in Maharashtra, village local government units also report occasional system
breakdowns. The beneficiaries confirmed this: 25 percent in Kamataka and 57 percent in
Maharashtra reported frequent system failure. Major repairs, when they are carried out, tend to
take about a week (the average for all the cases about which the study has data). The longest
service interruptions lasted two weeks.
3.12   About 13 percent of users complained about excessive or unpleasant coloration of their
water, and about 26 percent complained about excessive turbidity. Opinions about the overall
water quality were mixed: almost half of the respondents felt that water quality had improved
after the project while the other half felt that it had stayed the same. Water quality testing was
initiated at the outset of the Karnataka project as a regular activity, but testing has become
sporadic in some villages and has been discontinued in others. In Maharashtra, water quality is
tested regularly only in about 40 percent of the villages. An additional 20 percent tested the



20
quality at the time of system installation; the remaining 40 percent report that the water quality
was never tested. Laboratory reports documenting serious water problems are not known to exist
in either state, nor did committees allege that any existed. However, the survey shows that
consumers suspect (rightly) that water may get contaminated due to system leakages. In water
mains-especially when there is a long time lapse during the repair of the leakages-
contaminants are more likely to infiltrate when systems are not under pressure due to intermittent
supply.
3.13    Table 3.4 presents improvements in water supply service measured by the number of
service hours and user satisfaction. The number of hours the service is available remains very low
in both states.
Table 3.4. Improved Functioning of Schemes: Service Hours and User Satisfaction
Indicator                                                  Karnataka       Maharashira
.................~~~~~~~~~~~...... ....................................................................................I............................................................I.....................................................
.Water availability during wet season (hours per day)         1.5              1.6
Water availability during dry season (hours per day)          1.5              1.5
Satisfaction with the design of the service (% of households)  81              53
3.14    Before the projects, water systems were operated at irregular hours for short periods in the
morning and evening for a total of about one hour a day. The survey found about a 50 percent
improvement over this baseline-although the current average is about 1.5 hours a day. Even in
the best-served villages the number of reported service hours is about three to four hours a day.
Despite this, the hours of operation and water quality (especially during the dry season) have at
least become more regular. In that sense, then, the reliability of water service has improved. To
put the before and after situation in perspective: over 80 percent of the consumers in Karnataka,
and over 50 percent in Maharashtra, express their satisfaction with the design of the new systems
by rating them "good" or higher. The survey also shows that the current consumption levels in
both schemes are quite low-between 10 and 17 lcd-well below official consumption standards
(see footnote 2 and para. 4.7).
Cost of Water Service
3.15    The capital costs of the water systems vary according to the complexity of the
infrastructure.'3 The schemes in Kamataka consist mostly of tubewell/piped systems; in
Maharashtra, most schemes are based on a supply of water from regional bulk supply schemes.
Table 3 .514 gives village-by-village capital costs for the new systems constructed so far in
Kamataka and Maharashtra.
13. Per the cost data available to the study, the most expensive system in Kamataka was a borewell/piped scheme in
Thyamagondlu costing nearly Rs. 3.5 million. The most expensive in Maharashtra was a regional scheme in
Pimpalwadi costing more than Rs. 2.8 million. The cheapest schemes were Rs. 0.6 million (Kembliganahalli in
Kamataka) and Rs. 0.9 million (Salgara in Maharashtra).
14. The table presents only the schemes where infonnation was determined to be reasonably complete and reliable.



21
Table 3.5. System Components and Costs
Location                           Type of System                                Cost
Shallow    Bore Wells/    Piped,       Total, Rs.   Cost Per Capita, Cost Per Capita,
Wells       Piped      Regionalb                       Rs.           US$,
.................................. ...............................................................
Karnataka
Kembliganahalli                                                  573,000          477.5           12.3
Bilagumba                                                       1,090,000         463.2           11.9
Kemmale                                                         1,098,000         784.3           20.2
Bylanararapura                                                  1,823,000         446.0           11.5
Sathnur                                                         3,272,000         673.3           17.3
Thyamagondlu                        x                           3,493,000         334.8            8.6
Ankanahalli                         x                           1,100,000         366.7            9.4
Chandakavadi                        x                           1,202,000         267.1            6.9
Udigala                             x                           1,574,000         276.1            7.1
Madlur                              x                           1,910,000         341.1            8.8
Maharashtra
Salgara                                          x               900,000          666.7           17.1
Bamanwadi                                        x               980,000         1068.7           27.5
Sulewadi                                         x              1,080,000        1384.6           35.6
Pimpalwadi                                       x              2,837,000        1773.1           45.6
Shahjahanpur            x                        x              1,607,000        1267.4           32.6
Walipur                                          x              2,122,400        4890.3          125.7
a. Only the villages with available information.
b. Applicable to Maharashra only.
c. US$ I = Rs. 38.9 as of January 1998.
3.16    The average per capita cost to date in Karnataka has been about US$11; in Maharashtra
the average cost has been about US$47, which compares favorably with cost indicators from other
developing countries. The large difference in per capita costs is because all Maharashtra schemes
in the table are regional systems that involve long transmission mains (which are relatively high
cost). The per capita costs of the Karnataka schemes are lower than is typical for this type of
schemes because many of them are simple tubewell systems with limited distribution networks;
some schemes, in fact, only expanded or rehabilitated existing facilities.
3.17    The project rules did not require any particular contribution by consumers toward the
capital cost of the schemes. The rules in Karnataka at the outset, though, required that consumers
finance on-site sanitation facilities and drainage (loans were subsidized) through their local water
committee .' Project staff considered village borrowing for sanitation an indicator of village
commitment to the water system and, more important, a commitment to accept the responsibility
for water system O&M. The requirement that beneficiaries invest in improved sanitation has
largely been met by all villages participating in the project. The rules in Maharashtra are
structured in principle in the same way, but the government subsidy for both sanitation and
drainage was higher than in Kamataka.
15. In order to foster increased local ownership, the project rules were changed after the mid-term review in 1996 so
that there was also a capital contribution for water. From that point onwards, villagers were required to pay 50 percent
of their contribution up-front as a prerequisite of participation in the project and prior to the award of any water supply
contract in their village. Thus, water supply was more clearly brought under the capital cost sharing rules and more
sensitive to real demand for improved services.



22
Tariffs and Cost Recovery
3.18   The collection of periodic water charges is not yet accepted practice, but initial steps are
being taken in some villages. The survey shows that (of those whose schemes are currently
charging) some 95 percent in Kamataka and about 70 percent in Maharashtra do pay something
for either water or sanitation or both. The study was unable to confirm this finding with
accounting data on the cost recovery performance of various water committees in Kamataka and
the local bodies in Maharashtra. The reason is that even where records are kept, bookkeeping
systems provide very little useful information. In some of the villages surveyed, consumers make
in-kind contributions (mostly labor) to system O&M. The survey indicates that, on average,
households contribute less than one day of labor a year. The tariff for water consumption is
generally a flat rate per month per household, ranging from Rs. 10-20 for standposts to (rarely)
more than Rs. 100-individual house connections almost invariably costing more.
3.19   The project rules require that water committees (Kamataka) and local bodies
(Maharashtra) become fully responsible for the O&M of the schemes. With locally generated
funds they are expected to cover the full O&M costs within the consumption area. Here again,
most villages did not have useful data. Of the few that were able to provide the needed
information, a small minority has achieved a positive revenue/expenditure ratio-most are still far
from achieving it. Accordingly, the collection ratios (as percentage of billing) are low; the highest
level observed was 60 percent (in one village in the Satara district of Maharashtra), and most
range between 10 and 30 percent. This low level of performance is discussed further in para. 3.29.
Institutional Achievements
Functioning of Village-level Groups
3.20   Government agents, in collaboration with local NGOs, have implemented the evaluated
projects. In addition, many committees formed for project purposes and other existing groups
gained the capacity to handle water-related activities. During the design, construction, and
management of water schemes and related services, these three groups were responsible for (or
trained to handle) a number of tasks. The degree to which these tasks were accomplished is
discussed below.
Table 3.6. Effectiveness of Village-level Institutions
Kamataka             Maharashtra
............................................................................................................ ..................... ..............   . ......G U..s.....................
Service operation and maintenance
O&M pardcipation (%)                         29.7                    1.5
O&M monitoring (%)                           31.7                    8.1
O&M sanctions ()                            29.5                   27.0
O&M dispute resolution (%)                   29.7                    1.5
Good water group indexr'                     5.66                   2.60
Female committee members (%)                  13.7                  20.3
Good committee attendance (%/o)              83.3                   55.0
a! See para 3.21.
3.21    The study team asked survey participants how effectively the operating body-water
committee or local government unit (LGU)-is handling the day-to-day challenges of scheme



23
operation (Table 3.6). There was likely to be a relationship between the exercise of administrative
control by scheme managers over member labor and material contributions and whether contributions
continued to be made. The study found that O&M participation was far superior in Kamataka and that
O & M monitoring was taking place in 32 percent of Kamataka schemes but only in 8 percent of those
in Maharashtra. The percentage of households that report sanctions are imposed on non-contributors to
O&M was nearly equal in the two states. Kamataka is far ahead on the percentage of households
reporting existence of a mechanism for resolving disputes among water users. Thgood water group
is an additive index based on the percentage of households that rated the functioning and
effectiveness of the community water group as "good" or better in terms of a series of questions
on management ability, system functioning, inclusiveness, and good committeeattendance. The
table shows that the functioning of Karnataka committees is rated more highly than the
functioning of organizations in Maharashtra.i6 The two water committee indicators, female
membership on the committee and whether more than 50 percent of all members attend meetings,
again indicate that Kamataka has achieved better performance, although female participation is
somewhat lower.'7
Training and Capacity-building by Local Government Units and NGOs
3.22   The performance of govemmental and NGO institutions can be evaluated by the degree to
which they built capacity in the villagers to make the best use of project-constructed
infrastructure. As Table 3.7 shows, respondents in Kamataka more often than respondents in
Maharashtra said they received administrative training. This finding is consistent with the
differences in institutional framework in the two states, as Karnataka has most of the fully
functioning committees and has had committees since the project began. Health benefits from
potable water depend heavily on beneficiaries receiving hygiene training: Maharashtra
respondents more often said they had received such training. Unfortunately, the household survey
question does not distinguish between training provided as part of the project and other hygiene
training (for example, from NGOs working in the area but not contracted to the project).
Furthermore, hygiene education began only recently in Kamataka and it is still ongoing.
3.23   The increase in the degree to which villagers have access to tools and spare parts is an
important institutional achievement. In Kamataka the percentage of service operators with access
to tools was much higher than in Maharashtra. This is probably because fewer tools were supplied
in the first place. In contrast, a higher percentage in Maharashtra noted that the village had
adequate access to spare parts; this may be because Maharashtra is ahead of Kamataka in the
implementation cycle.
16. After the mid-term review in 1996, the community development activities in Kamataka were begun in advance of
engineering planning and at least one year in advance of starting construction of water supply systems.
17. Since women are the primary water collectors in households surveyed, the participation of women indicates that the
primary users of the service are able to influence decisions about its operation and maintenance.



24
Table 3.7. Training and Capacity-building Achievements
Kamataka        Maharashtra
Administrative training (%)               41.7              5.0
Hygiene training (%/.)                    7.9              41.8
Access to tools (%/o)                     75.0             55.0
Access to spare parts (%)                 33.3             45.0
Beneficiary Participation
3.24   In Karnataka project staff and NGOs helped to establish a functioning water committee
in each community, ensuring that communities were consulted and able to make an informed
decision about the type of service they wanted and overseeing the quality of construction of the
service. So far the project has established functioning committees in the project villages quite
effectively. In 23 of the 25 villages surveyed, the committee was already functional as the
implementation of the water systems was nearing completion. Establishing the committee early,
allowing for significant participation in design, and providing ongoing technical assistance help to
make a committee strong and enhance a sense of ownership. Table 3.8 reviews indicators relevant
to participation and ownership. As noted earlier, no capital contribution toward the construction of
the water systems was expected or obtained from consumers.
3.25   In Maharashtra, other than minimal efforts in a few pilot endeavors, the whole attempt to
involve communities early in the project cycle failed. The project did establish a "task force" that
included representatives of local governments and selected (experienced) NGOs to work out the
details of how the communities were to participate in the planning and management of project
activities. After a slow start and a couple of years of work in these areas, the task force was
dissolved without resolving the issue. Later, some water committees were nominally established,
but on the whole the systems are operated and maintained by the local government units. As
pointed out in (Box 2.1), project rules are somewhat contradictory and unworkable in the sense
that they require a demand-driven approach within a top-down structure. O&M responsibility for
the state's projects remains with local government (per the project rules) but attempts are being
made to establish water committees. This community mobilization task has been complicated by
the fact that the committees' roles and responsibilities are not yet.fully defined.
Table 3.8. Village Participation Indicators
Karnataka     Maharashtra
..............................................................................I..........................................................................................................................................................
Participation in areas likely to enhance ownership
Early water committee (%)                            83.3            25.0
Technology choice (%)                                33.3            25.0
Service choice (%/o)                                 50.0            15.0
Cost choice (%)                                      50.0            15.0
Location choice (%/o)                                41.7            25.0
Design performance'                                  2.58            1.05
a! An additive index based on the previous five indicators.
3.26   Overall, the participation indicators are clearly better in Kamataka than in Maharashtra.
This finding is logical as the preparation of the Kamataka project followed the community-based
approach early and more systematically than was the case in Maharashtra; see also the discussion
in para 4.20 on institutional impact.



25
Sustainability of Service
3.27   The quality of the water service provided to the villages in the project states has certainly
improved in the short tern through the implementation of the two projects. Several positive
technical achievements discussed above-such as improved access to water, increased reliability
of service, and better quality of water (which, in many villages, is safe for the first time)-
contribute to a significant quality-of-life improvement for project beneficiaries. The question
remains, however: how well can this quality of service be sustained? The quality of construction
was generally viewed to be good in many communities-more respondents in Karnataka (75
percent) than in Maharashtra (30 percent) rated the quality of construction as "good".
3.28   However, the survey results reveal gaps and overlaps in important responsibilities. When
asked about who is responsible for the O&M of the scheme, 40 percent of Kamataka's water
committees responded that no one was. Further, in all communities both the household
respondents and the water committees said that critically needed major repairs have been
neglected. In Maharashtra the situation is even worse.
3.29   Lack of stakeholder commitment to sound financial principles is another cause for
concern. In the communities visited, the collection of fees and tariffs has been ad hoc."8 Only an
extremely small number of water committees and local bodies were able to provide solid
information on system operating costs and O&M cost recovery. When collection ratios and the
inability of scheme managers to access system financial performance data are juxtaposed with the
remaining or pending uncertainties about O&M responsibilities, and the generally abysmal
financial performance, serious doubt is cast on the long-term sustainability of the schemes in
Maharashtra and Kamataka. The same challenge is now being addressed in the UP project. A new
partnership seems to be coping more proactively with these and other problems (see para. 2.12),
and the results can be expected in the next couple of years.
Social Capital and Institutional Performance
3.30   Table 3.9 presents selected social capital indicators for Maharashtra and Karnataka.
Indicators of associational activity are based on questions households were asked about their
participation in groups and associations. Although the picture is mixed when comparing the
indicators for the two projects, interviews in project villages indicate that community
mobilization was more timely in Karnataka and it occurred on many fronts. Karnataka therefore
enjoys a slightly stronger level of social capital.
18. In some communities, users fees have not been collected because the scheme has not yet been officially handed
over to the community or LGU.



26
Table 3.9. Selected indicators of social capital
in Maharashtra and Karnataka
Kamataka                 Maharashtra
Association activity
Group membership (%/.)a                               14.4                       27.8
Number of groups per householdb                        0.2                       0.5
Group characteristics'                                 1.1                       1.9
Civic activityd
One community activity (/o)C                          36.9                      36.6
Two conmmunity activities (%)f                        12.4                       10.2
Road maintenance (%)g                                  6.9                       7.8
Households participated (%)h                          16.6                       11.7
Cooperative conununity (%o)i                          83.3                       70.0
a. A dichotomous variable for households that report being a member of a farmers' group, women's group, credit/finance group,
political group, youth group, religious group, Panchyat Raj, death donation society, or other community group.
b. The number of groups to which a household belongs excluding water users' groups.
c. An unweighted average of various characteristics of each household's most important group, including heterogeneity of members
by caste and religion, gender, and occupation; decisionmaking mechanisms; and effectiveness of group functioning.
d. Indicators of civic activity are based on questions to households and to water committees about community-wide activities to build
or maintain local public works (building schools, constructing roads, maintaining roads, constructing religious buildings).
e. Households reporting at least one such activity in their community in the previous year.
f. Households reporting at least two such activities in their community in the previous year.
g. Households reporting road maintenance in their community in the previous year.
h. Households reporting participation in any of these activities.
i. Water committees reporting that their community is characterized by cooperation and civic interaction.
3.31    Among the indicators that measure civic activity, the first two show that communities in
both states have similar (low) levels of community activities, including about the same amount of
community road maintenance. Small minorities in Karnataka and Maharashtra report being
involved in a community activity. Two of the water committees in Karnataka and six in
Maharashtra said that their community is not cooperative.
3.32    In the analytical work conducted by the Center for Institutional Reform and the Informal
Sector (IRIS), the communities surveyed were ranked according to the performance of W&S
services. In Table 3 .10, the top half of the table summarizes the results for the 16 best performers,
and the bottom half the 16 worst performers. The functioning of schemes was measured by an
index.19 For each category, the table reports selected significance-tested indicators of social
capital, governmental and NGO institutions, service-level institutions, performance, and impact.
3.33    The study shows that in those communities where the pre-existing social capital
(measured by association and civic activity) was high, as well as in the communities where social
capital increased through participation in the project, the schemes are performing better.
Governmental, NGOs and local institutions have performed better and produced better outcomes
in communities with the best groups than in communities with the worst ones. A comparison of
19. An additive 10 point index based equally on consumer satisfaction and lack of observed or reported technical
problems. The absence of the following factors were each assigned a seventh share of 5 points: leakage in the
network, leakage in the standpipes, frequent system failure, neglect of key repairs, excessive coloration, high turbidity,
and service problems at critical areas. The remaining (maximum of) 5 points were awarded according to the percentage
of households surveyed that expressed satisfaction with the technology choice they were given.



27
the Putnam index20 reveals that households in communities with the best performing services
belong to more groups, and that membership in these groups is also more heterogeneous regarding
religion, occupation, and gender. Because better organized communities were more informed
about their rights-and more insistent on being treated as they should be-government officials
and NGO representatives more often completed their assignments in these communities as
planned.
Table 3.10. Comparing Group Means for the Best and Worst Performing
W&S Services
___________________            ~~~Indicator                            Mean
Best Performers
Social Capital Indicators:              Number of groups                        0.55
Putnam index                           3.47
Two community activities               0.16
Indicators of Govemment Institutions:    Design performance                     1.81
Hygiene training                       0.25
Indicators of Service-level Institutions:  Design participation                 0.23
Satisfactory women participation       0.15
Construction participation (> 2 days)  0.04
Construction monitoring                0.29
O&M any payment                        0.59
Good water group                       3.82
Performance Indicator:                   Functioning index                      7.77
Impact Indicator:                        Inproved health                        0.56
Worst Performers
Social Capital Indicators:              Number of groups                        0.26
Putnam index                           1.76
Two community activities               0.10
Indicators of Govemment Institutions:    Design performance                     1.44
Hygiene training                       0.21
Indicators of Service-level Institutions:  Design participation                 0.15
Satisfactory women participation       0.05
Construction participation (> 2 days)  0.05
Construction monitoring                0.15
O&M any payment                        0.46
Good water group                       3.69
Performance Indicator:                   Functioning index                      3.63
Impact Indicator:                        Improved health                        0.40
3.34    Annex 2 presents additional performance indicators that are relevant to understanding the
achievements in institutional capacity building at the village level.
4.  Project Impacts
4.1     The project achievements reviewed in the previous chapter had important impacts on the
lives of beneficiaries, their communities, and the institutions that continue to provide them water
20. The Putnam index is an index of social capital that is the product of the number of groups a household is a member
of and the characteristics of the group. Unlike the results with two conmmunity activities, the difference between the
means of this measure of social capital is not statistically significant.



28
and sanitation services. Foremost among these consequences were health improvements. The
number of families reporting improvements, a comparison between the health status of users and
non-users, and the relationship between those whose health improved and the water source that
they previously used are discussed below. The economic impacts of the projects were primarily
time savings; few families launched new productive enterprises because of their improved access
to safe water. This chapter also reviews social and institutional impacts, analyzing interaction
patterns and how they changed with the introduction of water committees and systems. The
impact on the lives of women is also discussed.
Health Impacts
Self-reported Improvements in General Health
4.2     Study researchers interviewed more than 1,000 rural households (in the villages listed in
Table 3.1) about recent health problems .21 Slightly more than half (54 percent) ofthe households in
Kamataka using the new water schemes and 63 percent of them in Maharashtra reported that they
thought the health oftheir family had improved since the water scheme started to function. However,
health impacts vary greatly across communities. In some communities no households noted health
improvements, while in other communities all the households did.
4.3     The survey team sought detailed information only about the two-week period
immediately preceding the day of the interview because self-reported health data become
increasingly unreliable over longer periods of recall. The results show marked differences in the
incidence of water-bome diseases among the users and non-users of schemes. As Table 4.1 indicates, at
the time ofthe survey 5 percent of households using the new schemes in Karnataka and 15 percent in
Maharashtra had suffered from diarrhea in the past two weeks. During the same period, the incidence of
diarrhea among households not using the schemes was higher in both states. However, in Kamataka, a
larger share of users than non-users reported that a family member had been hospitalized or died due to
diarrhea in the past year.
4.4     Overall, the survey results indicate that the incidence of diarrhea and hospitalization and
mortality due to diarrhea are more common in Maharashtra than in Karnataka.
Table 4.1. Diarrhea: Incidence, Treatment Sought and Mortality in Indian Project Sites
Incidence of diarrhea in   Hospitalization due to diarrhea  Death in household due to
the past Iwo weeks       in the pastyear         diarrhea in the past year
(/ of households)    (%l of households with diarrhea)  (% of households)
..................................................................................................................................................... . ....................... 
Among Users
Kamnataka (n=240)              5.0                      5                          0.8
Maharashtra(n=438)             15.0                    10.3                        0.9
Among Non-users
Kamataka(n=180)                13.0                    1.1                          0
Maharashtra(n=151)             23.0                    16.6                        0.7
21. In Kamataka, 240 individuals in households with access to water systems, 180 in those without. In Maharashtra 438
individuals in households with access to water systems, 151 in those without



29
Relationship of Pre- and Post-project Water Source to Health Improvement
4.5    In Maharashtra, households whose previous source of water was a pond, wadi, river, or
stream reported health improvements most often.22 As Figures 4. la and 4. lb indicate, all
households that had relied on a pond or wadi and 72 percent of those households that previously
used a river or stream said that their health had improved. By contrast, in Kamataka, where
surface water is less common, households that had used either a tubewell with a hand pump or a
shallow well as a source of water noted most often that their health had improved. About 60
percent of previous users of tubewells with hand pumps or shallow wells thought the project has
had a positive impact on their health.
Figure 4.1a. Improved Health and Previous Water Source: Karnataka
100
:9       59.6               59.6
a)
0
240
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0
Tubwell  Tubewell  Shallow    Spring    Rher or   Pond or
w/Hand   w/Motor    Well             Stream    Wadi
Pump    Pump
Figure 4.1b. Improved Health and Previous Water Source: Maharashtra
100
100-
80 I72.2
60I
z40 I3.
20I
0-
Tubwell  Tubewell  Shallow    Spring    RNer or   Pond or
w/lHand   w/Motor    Well            Stream    Wadi
Pump    Pump
22. The small sample size of users of some sources makes some of the results statistically insignificant.



30
4.6    Further, the higher the level of service, the greater the self-reported improvement.
Especially in Maharashtra, households that currently receive water through private piped
connections reported health improvements most often (Table 4.2).
Table 4.2. Improved Health and Current Water Source
(% of households)
Private Piped          Shared Piped
Connections            Connections
Kamataka              54n=93                 53 ,n122
Maharashtra           66 ,-_06               60nfl3
Health and Water Consumption Levels
4.7    In areas where water is scarce, health improvements due to the introduction of safe water
are usually a function of increased availability leading to one or more new uses (it becomes
possible to use clean water for cooking, bathing, and/or laundry). In Kamataka about 70 percent
and in Maharashtra about 24 percent of households that reported improvement in their health had
increased the consumption of water since the new water schemes started functioning. The quantity
of water consumed per household and per capita is higher in Kamataka than in Maharashtra. On
average, a household using the project-supplied service consumes 78 liters of water per day in
Karmataka and 46 liters in Maharashtra. The per capita consumption in Kamataka ranges between
8 and 17 liters a day, the average being 11 liters. In Maharashtra, the average daily per capita
consumption of water is 8 liters.23
4.8    Increased usage can be expected to be highest where pre-project demand was most in
excess of supply. This proved to be true in Karnataka, where households whose previous source of
water was a spring most often increased their water usage. In fact, all households that previously
used water from springs in Kamataka have raised their water usage, as can be seen from Figures
4.2a and 4.2b. In Maharashtra households that had relied on a pond, wadi, river, or stream for
drinking water have most often raised their water consumption. Since surface water is more
plentiful in Maharashtra, increased usage might reflect the popular perception of these sources as
unsafe (and indeed it does, see following paragraph). In Maharashtra, all households interviewed
whose previous source of water was a pond and about 46 percent of households that had used
water from a river for drinking noted that they consume more water now than before the project.
23. Compared with experience from other RWS projects, although increased, these quantitities are very low and only
barely meet the need forpotable water. For other household necessities, water needs to be extracted from non-project
sources (see also paras. 3.4 and 3.6).



31
Figure 4.2a. Increased Water Consumption and Previous Water Source: Karnataka
100
100   6
#A    80  I 6.
n                          600
0
z40I
0                                                    2.
20I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tubwell  Tubewell  Shallow   Spring    River or  Pond or
w/Hand   w/Motor   Well            Stream    Wadi
Pump    Pump
Figure 4.2b. Increased Water Consumption and Previous Water Source: Maharashtra
100
100
U, 80
60
I  40   32.9      40               33.3       
0
2!20
0
Tubwell  Tubewell  Shallow   Spnng   River or  Pond or
w/Hand   w/Motor   Well            Stream    Wadi
Pump    Pump
4.9    The awareness of safe sources of water and practices of water handling partially influence
the health impact. Thus, the impacts of water systems are usually maximized by parallel health
education programs. A recent OED evaluation in Africa, for example, showed that the
introduction of handpumps did not lead to health improvements because the parallel effort in
health education and sanitation was too feeble and not sustained long enough.24 About 88 percent
of households that had obtained hygiene training as part of the project in Karnataka and 74
percent in Maharashtra considered water from a river or stream as unsafe. When households using
the water service were asked to classify different water sources as safe or unsafe, about 89 percent
in Karnataka and 68 percent of households in Maharashtra classified water from a river or a
stream as unsafe for drinking.
24. See OED Precis 154 "Sustaining Rural Water Systems: The Case of Mali." November 1997.



32
4.10   About 41 percent of households surveyed in Kamataka reported that they purify water
before drinking and about 68 percent of them reported the same in Maharashtra. About 35 percent
of households in Kamataka that claimed improved health also purify water before drinking. In
Maharashtra, 71 percent of households that reported improved health also stated that they purify
their water.
Economic Impact
4.11   As was noted above--and in addition to many health improvements that have economic
impacts--the main economic impacts of the water and sanitation projects in both states have been
time savings to individual households. The average time spent daily by a household collecting
water decreased by more than four hours in Karnataka and by more than two hours in Maharashtra
(Figure 4.3). Before the project, households in both states used to travel on average 2.5 km in a
day to haul water. The new water schemes reduced the average distance each household travels
daily to collect water to 279 meters in Kamataka and to 326 meters in Maharashtra.
Figure 4.3. Average Reduction in Time a Household
Spends Daily Collecting Water
300 --    262
250                         13
200 
150
0
Kamataka        Maharashtra
4.12  In Kamataka, the average daily water collection time dropped most for households whose
previous source of water was a spring, while in Maharashtra households that had used tubewells
with hand pumps experienced the biggest time savings. As Figures 4.4a and 4.4b indicate, the
average time spent daily collecting water dropped by about four hours on average for households
in Karnataka, and by nearly three hours for households that had relied on tubewells with hand
pumps in Maharashtra.



33
Figure 4.4a. Time Savings and Previous Water Source: Karnataka
(Average Reduction in Time Spent Collecting Water)
1000
800                  690
rn600
400
>  640oO  233                     208                       191
200                                           120
*0                                O
Tubw ell    Tubew ell    Shallow     River or     Pond or
w /Hand     w Ibtor       Wel         Stream       Wadi
Pump        Fump
Note: A few users of distant springs may have benefited even more.
Figure 4.4b. Time Savings and Previous Water Source: Maharashtra
(Average Reduction in Time Spent Collecting Water)
200 17
173
150 I            126
CD00n                                 93        95       90
'~100I
50I
0
Tubwell  Tubewell  Shallow    Spring    Riwr or   Pond or
w/Hand   w/Motor    Well              Stream    Wadi
Pump     Pump
4.13   Not surprisingly, households receiving private piped connections obtained the largest
time saving-on average 6.5 hours in Kamataka and 3 hours in Maharashtra (Table 4.3). The
benefits of these time savings primarily accrue to women, who are the main water collectors in
households surveyed in both states.



34
Table 4.3. Time Saving and Current Source of Water
Average Reduction in Time Spent Daily Collecting Water (minutes)
Private Piped Connections      Shared Pipe Connections
Karnataka                  395,,13                       184 ,i=22
Maharashtra                214  106                       95 fr253
4.14   The substantial time savings represent in atypical village some nine additional (10-hour)
working days a month. Using an average field work daily rate of Rs. 2025 as a basis, this
represents a potential increase in household income of over 30 percent; the economic rate of
return of such a gain is about 17 percent.
4.15   Only a fraction of households surveyed in the two states has initiated new income-
generating activities that use water. In Karnataka, 1.7 percent of households using the schemes
have put water to a new economic use; in Maharashtra 0.9 percent have done so. These activities
include silk processing and cultivation of flowers, and the production of refreshments. Another
example of an economic impact was observed in Kerala where OED has found that densification
may follow the introduction of potable water in rural areas (Box 4.1).
Box 4.1. Water Supply Improvement Caused An Increased Density of Rural Areas in Kerala
A recent OED study in the state of Kerala found that the introduction of potable water led to an
increased density of settlements because there was a strong pent-up demand for housing (due to lack of
available water). Site visits to project areas revealed that as water was being introduced into the various
local government wards, many more homes were built Land records were reviewed in two local
governments to confimn this perception. Average annual growth in the number of dwellings in wards for
which eight years of data exist was 35.3 percent in one area and 16.1 percent in the other. Population
growth in the communities that benefited from the water schemes was greater than in the surrounding
district.
Another significant project impact turned out to be that plots of land served by project water
schemes appreciated substantially in value. Under the project rules the plots had to be within easy walking
distance of standposts, and house connections were usually permitted (allowing the installation of sinks,
showers, and other improvements). In two Puthencruz communities focus group meetings with the local
government executive council members and other municipal employees sought information on the increase
in land values. In one community the average increase in price for one house plot was reported to be 185
percent, in the other the groups estimated 225 percent. It appears that families who lived in crowded
circumstances before there was water occupied additional dwellings when those could be served with safe
water. But relatives living where water was still scarce tended to move to join families that had a better
water supply because of the project. The impact on poverty of these windfall gains was minimal, however,
in that most families did not sell land, and so realized no actual income benefit other than an increase in net
worth.
25. Agricultural Wages in India, 1993-94. Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture.



35
Social Impact
4.16   About 67 percent of water committees interviewed in Karnataka and 35 percent in
Maharashtra said that social interaction in their community has increased since the project came to
the community. This difference between the two states demonstrates the effectiveness of
community promotion activities in Karnataka over those in Maharashtra. According to these water
committees, members are now socializing and participating in community activities more than
before the project.
Figure 4.5. Impact on Social Interaction in Communities
Karnataka                             Maharashtra
No                No
Change            Change
3hang             65%
Increased                                                     Increased
Social                                                        Social
Interaction                                                   Interaction
67%                                                           35%
Gender Impacts
4.17   Women in India are still not full participants in decisions about water and sanitation,
which affect them most of all. Water committee members are predominantly male in both states.
In Karnataka, on average only about 14 percent of water committee members are women. In
Maharashtra, the average is about 20 percent (Figure 4.6). This low participation by women in
water committees is consistent with the low share of women in community leadership positions.
In 92 percent of communities surveyed in Kamataka and in 95 percent in Maharashtra, all or most
of community leaders are men. The share of female members in water committees is high in those
few communities where the majority of community leaders are women and low in those where all
or most leaders are male. Respondents to the household survey were highly critical of the lack of
opportunities provided for women in the management of the water schemes: only 3 percent in
Kamataka and 14 percent in Maharashtra said that the current level of women's participation was
satisfactory.



36
Figure 4.6. Share of Women in Water Committees
25
20.3
20
tn 15        13.7
C.'
,,,  10     
5
o
Kamataka           Maharashtra
4.18   Women are in charge of providing water for home use, household cleanliness, and
sanitation-related maintenance. In focus groups held in the villages women noted that safe and
more convenient water supply has certainly improved their quality of life. It has also enhanced
the productivity of those rural women that use project-supplied water in their homes. They noted
that easier access to safe water (and an assured supply) allows them to provide a cleaner
environment in their homes with less effort. It is now easier and safer to wash their children.
Women wash their own and their children's hands more often, and healthier children allow the
mothers to be away from the house doing productive activities more days per year. Safe water close
to the home helps women to keep food preparation areas clean. Washing clothes and cooking are
simplified and less time consuming. Children's education is also greatly enhanced by good health
(and nutrition is improved by adequate hygiene). All the above can also lead to higher self-esteem.
4.19   Improved sanitation has impacts beyond eliminating the health impacts of open
defecation. The focus group interviews reveal, that in some villages, women were limited to
attending to their bodily functions during hours of darkness because it is not proper for them to be
seen doing so by day. Having a clean place to attend to personal hygiene is particularly welcome
during menstruation.
Institutional Impact
4.20   When the institutional impact of project interventions is positive, the expected outcomes
are that O&M of the system will be more effective than in the past, and that institutional
development has enhanced the systems' long-term sustainability in some way. As discussed in
Chapter 3, the gains in O&M effectiveness and community participation have clearly been better
in Karnataka than in Maharashtra. This is explained by the stronger pre-existing social capital
base, which has interacted with the social impact of the project and the way it was carried out in
Kamataka. It is also partly due to the early promotion of community involvement and more
deliberate preparation of water committees for their future role. Similarly, government and NGO
performance was stronger in Karnataka.



37
4.21   Village water committees have been set up, and based on their achievements so far (at
least in Karnataka) they can be considered a modest success. However, to go beyond the creation
of new local organizations-which require careful follow-up support if they are to have an
impact-and to achieve longer-term sustainability, the focus of project staff and their NGO
partners should be on scheme administration. Committees and local government units need
stronger financial management, more and better training of operational staff, and more women's
participation. In Maharashtra any future project should move.away from local government-run
O&M and encourage the formation of committees using the lessons already leamed and still to be
learned from Karnataka. It is probable that as income levels rise there will be decreasing returns to
increased participation. In the future, villagers may prefer to get water without having to attend
regular meetings and doing maintenance work on their village water system.
4.22 The Karnataka and Maharashtra projects provide evidence that, given current conditions
in rural India, the level of community participation and demand-responsiveness of a project does
affect results, and that increasing local involvement in planning, technology selection, and scheme
operation leads to improved service. In 1996 a new project was launched in Uttar Pradesh. Its new
approach to expanded government, NGO, and community partnership-which stretches over to
full responsibility by the NGO and community even in project implementation-sets new targets
for demand-responsiveness and community participation. The Uttar Pradesh project undoubtedly
will provide further lessons about the advisability of broader participation, and will set new
standards for subsequent projects in the subsector.
5.  Findings, Conclusions and Recommendations
Findings
5.1    Although the hours of water supply have increased only slightly, the access to water is
much better than before the projects and the supply is now more regular. Bank support for the
rural water subsector in India generally has been relevant and is making a meaningful difference
in the quality of village life. The rural water infrastructure is in place and functioning. The various
schemes are helping to reduce the deficit in mral water supply, and increasing water coverage; in
the best villages coverage has reached 100 percent. Sanitation in the project areas has improved
substantially because of better water availability, and use of pour-flush latrines has greatly
increased.26
5.2    One question needs to be asked, however. Did the differing degree of demand-
responsiveness of the projects enhance or constrain their operations and the longer-term
sustainability of the service delivery? The p:reponderance of the evidence is that the more
community-based and demand-responsive the project (or even project village), the better it did in
a full range of activities.
26. Although the sanitation program is still underway, much of the demand for improved sanitation is already met in the
surveyed villages.



38
5.3   The Rajasthan project experience illustrates the severe difficulty of creating a sustainable
operation without community participation. In that project, a community contribution and O&M
cost recovery were explicitly called for during project design but neither materialized during
implementation. And the lack of real ownership demonstrated by the ultimate beneficiaries was
due to the fact that the systems cost them nothing, and they had neither control over any type of
resource nor influence on decision-making. Even now, the State PHED continues to handle the
O&M and finance system expansions. Thus, the continuity of service and post-project
expansions of coverage depend heavily on governmental budgetary allocations and subsidies. In
Kerala the ownership and sustainability situations were largely the same, the only community
contributions regularly made were repayments of loans for household sanitary infrastructure (local
governments are generally not passing along any funds collected from the rental value tax to the
Kerala Water Authority). And the autonomous Kerala Water Authority designs and finances
expansion without local input when government grants are made available.
5.4   In Maharashtra, an attempt was made to introduce more meaningful community
participation with substantial assistance from NGOs. The project was designed in such a top-
down exercise, however, that the respective roles of communities, NGOs and local government
were never actually defined-although in practice local governments were made responsible for
O&M. Since the role of village water committees was not clearly established during project
preparation and the top-down structure did not facilitate their subsequent empowerment, the
results were largely as expected: poor cost recovery, the project-provided opportunity for
community development was wasted (the social capital indicators are still quite low), and the
sustained operation of the systems is unlikely or uncertain at best. Consequently, the delivery of
water and sanitation services in Maharashtra was not very demand-responsive and village
participation in the ensuing implementation phases was not as active as originally anticipated.
5.5    Karnataka, the later of the two projects, was characterized by greater attention to
participation and scheme design was more demand-responsive. Communities were mobilized with
the help of NGOs, but the creation of opportunities for community members to participate began
only well into implementation. With hindsight, it is clear that faster progress and a greater
development impact could have been achieved had participatory activities commenced before and
not during system construction. Zilla Panchayats are still strongly in charge of implementation,
and (perhaps) some officials do not fully understand and appreciate a community-based way of
working together with villagers. In Karnataka the results seem to be better than in Maharashtra
(and the social capital indicators are generally higher) but cost recovery indicators are still low,
critical financial data are generally not available, political interference by local government is a
frequent complaint, and sustainability is far from ensured. The GOI in its most recent RWS
project (in Uttar Pradesh) is approaching these issues in a fundamentally different way, i.e., by
introducing direct capital contribution for the first time, and encouraging stronger community
involvement in decision-making through a more dynamic partnership between the community, the
NGOs, and the state project implementing unit.
Conclusions
5.6   The evolving RWS paradigm in India has not yet come to a point that many experts in the
sector would consider an effective demand-responsive model. Nevertheless, its experience with
ever more participatory approaches provides a rich basis for a detailed evaluation of social capital
(and other) factors that contribute to positive project results and the sustainability of services.
Now that community mobilization in Karnataka begins at least a year before system construction



39
(see footnote 15), it would be worth researching during the Implementation Completion Report
process (in 1999) whether the increased investment in organization is producing better results.
5.7    Responding to the priorities set out in the eighth FYDP (para. 1.19), the Maharashtra and
Karnataka projects are showing that health benefits are enhanced by integrating water, sanitation,
and hygiene education interventions (see para. 3.22); an approach typical of community-based
projects. While women's participation is not equal to men's in all areas, the study has shown that
women play a vital role in the local water users' groups, and the status and lives of women are better
than they were before the project owing to better access and more regular availability of water.
5.8    The study yields several important policy conclusions:
*   When beneficiaries make a regular and significant financial contribution to the
operation of a water scheme, they feel a sense of ownership and demand more of a
say in scheme operation. In communities where a substantial portion of O&M costs
is covered by users, the users become more concerned about those management
aspects involved with keeping costs low. This was also true in Rajasthan (during the
workshop, village representatives strongly insisted on greater participation in
decision-making) and, to a lesser degree, in Kerala as well.
*   Involve women in the design and management of the W&S service. The results of this
study provide strong evidence that involving users in all aspects of the development,
implementation, and O&M of water supply systems can improve sustainability.
Involving women makes particularly good sense; women's involvement in system
management is critical for performance: women are the primary water collectors in
most rural households and have the most interest in ensuring that the W&S service
matches their needs and performs well.27
-   Community-based W&S services are likely to perform well and have strong impacts
in communities with high levels of social capital.25 Project designers need to pay
close attention to existing levels of social capital in communities, and adjust the
approach to service delivery accordingly. The existence of social networks improves
group organization and service functioning, as community members are accustomed
to working together as a group. Also, social ties among community members deter
free-riding and encourage community members to meet their commitments.
Depending upon the way RWS projects are implemented, there are indications that
social interactions can increase, and social capital growth is possible (see Figure
4.5).Therefore, in the design of projects that finance community-based W&S
services-particularly in the design of social mobilization efforts-the existing
levels of social capital in communities need to be taken into account.
27. These results complement the results obtained by Sara and Katz (1998). They showed that demand-responsive
community-based W&S services are likely to have sustainable impacts on poverty alleviation and that sustatnability of
services was markedly higher in conmunities where households had made informed choices about whether to build a
water system and about the type and level of service.
28. This extends the previous results on social capital obtained by Narayan and Pritchett (1997). They found that
villages in Tanzania with high levels of social capital have better public services and more communal road construction
and maintenance activities than villages with low social capital.



40
The effectiveness of water committees influences the performance of the W&S
service. Committees provide users with incentives to contribute the required inputs
to the design, construction, and O&M of water and sanitation services-and,
together with other project partners, they develop rules. Rules need to be clear and
well understood and accepted by all stakeholders, especially those rules that govem
the use, operation, and maintenance of W&S services by the water users. Whether
such rules exist-and whether they are properly implemented and enforced-
depends on the social mobilization efforts of the project implementers. For example,
whether women participate in service design and management, and whether
households contribute to construction and pay for water (as agreed), depends on
whether committees feel they own the project rules.
Recommendations
5.9    The Key recommendations resulting from the study are as follows:
-   The Karnataka implementation completion report (ICR) due next year should
be combined with the UP mid-term review (scheduled for 1999). Combining
these two exercises will provide a marvelous opportunity to further improve the
RWS program's modus operandi as well as inform the basic framework and rules for
future investments.
*   The project implementer's role, the communities' role, and the functions of local
committees and other groups (and the rules that govern their behavior) need to
be specified clearly and designed early in the project cycle to facilitate broad
participation in all aspects of project development. A dialog in which all groups
participate during planning stages facilitates active community participation in the
implementation stage. Government and NGO participation is also governed by
project rules. Whether implementing agencies and NGOs cany out their tasks as
planned and provide accurate and helpful information to community members about
technology and service options, and teach community members about better hygiene
practices, critically affects the delivery of decentralized W&S services.
*   In project design, aim at a high recovery level for O&M costs. Full recovery of
O&M costs is the sine qua non of longer-term sustainability. Because O&M
eventually becomes the responsibility of the users' groups, factors such as
participation in multiple community activities by user group members, adequate
participation in system design and construction, improved beneficiary health, and
satisfactory participation in the water group by women are important indicators-
they are all related to above-average cost recovery. Consequently, during project
design, special attention needs to be given to these and related areas.
*  Design for full coverage and equitable distribution. Many systems have difficulty
providing adequate service to critical areas, such as hilltops and futhest reaches of
the system. A common pattern is that systems are designed for only the original
number of users that express interest and pay their quota. Once the rest of the
community sees that a system was really built, however, they begin applying
pressure on the water committee to include more families. Systems usually expand



41
until the quality of service approaches the intolerable. For that reason, it is better to
design for full coverage and to levy a significant surcharge for each system
expansion (to include those who turned down the opportunity to join once before).
* Pay close attention to existing levels of social capital in target communities.
Adjusting the approach to service delivery according to existing levels of social
capital should prove beneficial. Community-based W&S services are likely to
perform better and have stronger impacts in communities with high levels of social
capital. The existence of social networks improves group organization and service
functioning. In communities with low levels of social capital, special efforts, and
perhaps more time, are necessary to motivate and mobilize community members.
Success in one community activity often leads a village to success in a subsequent
activity.






43
Annex 1
Objectives and Components of the Surveyed Projects
Project Objectives
Karnataka Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project. The main
objective of the project was to raise the standard of living in rural villages by improving peoples'
access to potable water and providing better environmental sanitation-thereby improving health
and productivity. A secondary objective was to develop replicable models for building rural water
systems, coordinating water distribution, promoting environmental sanitation and health, and
improving the communication of water and health-related programs with rural villagers.
Additionally, the project was to enhance village-level planning and strengthen local institutional
capacity. As noted in Chapter 2, the Karnataka project was clearly more detailed than the
Maharashtra project in terms of community participation: although participatory elements were
only considered when the project was quite far along in its development process, the design took
the role of the community more into account in project preparation and implementation,
especially regarding the responsibilities of the committees in facility O&M.
Maharashtra Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation Project. The main and
secondary objectives of the project were largely the same as those of the Karnataka project. The
design of the Maharashtra project was, however, quite vague in the area of communities' actions
on the local level and on their role in various aspects of the project cycle.
Project components
Karnataka
The project comprises the following components:
(1)   Rural Water Supply. Including construction of new and rehabilitation of existing water
supply schemes in about 1,200 villages, assistance for PHED's borewell program, leakage repair
works, a water quality monitoring program and measures for groundwater recharge;
(2)   Environmental Sanitation. Including construction of environmental sanitation facilities
in all the project villages based on demand, covering sullage drainage, pit latrines, washing
platforms, cattle troughs, bathing cubicles, street bins and biogas plants;
(3) Institution Building and Project Support. Including community development programs
for creation of village water supply and sanitation committees, comprehensive training programs
and strengthening of the project management, PHED and ZPs; and
(4)   Health communication. for creation of greater community awareness and demand for
improved hygiene and environmental sanitation



44
Maharashtra
The project includes the following components:
(1)   Rural Water Supply. The component is expected to include a total of about 75 regional
piped water supply schemes and about 170 small individual schemes. The piped schemes range in
size from one village serving a design population of 1,000-2,000 to large, regional schemes
covering up to 24 villages and serving a design population of over 85,000. Water sources for these
schemes are from percolation wells, minor irrigation dams, river intakes, Bombay and Pune
Municipal Corporation water mains, and municipal reservoirs. The hand pump program would
include drilling, installation of 1,700 new pumps, rejuvenation of existing wells through
hydrofracturing and the replacement of 1,300 India Mark II hand pumps which are beyond repair.
(2)   Environmental Sanitation. Combined with the health communications component, it
would have the objective of developing new strategies to increase demand and usage, and to
implement those strategies through innovative programs in a flexible manner to allow the
implementing agencies to adjust the program on the basis of lessons learned during
implementation. This component would include small scale surface drains for sullage, soak pits,
individual latrines and street bins:
- The construction of surface drains to carry sullage will be undertaken in all villages with design
populations over 10,000 and in selected villages with populations over 5,000 in which the soil
conditions or population congestion preclude the use of soak pits. The drainage systems would
include main line drains, branch lines in by-lanes, cross drains and disposal pits.
- The sanitation subcomponent would install on a demand basis low cost latrines in villages with
piped water supply schemes. First priority would go to villages with populations above 1,000
which are receiving piped water supply schemes under the project. Second priority would go to
other villages in the districts with populations over 1,000 which have existing piped water supply
schemes.
- Refuse bins for solid waste removal would be provided as an incentive program to the large
villages in which drainage schemes have been constructed and where 50% of the households have
adopted low cost latrines.
(3)   Health Communications Program. This component has four main objectives.
- Its first objective is to create greater community awareness and demand in the following areas:
(i) personal and family hygiene; (ii) promotion of latrine usage; (iii) consumer awareness of the
requirements and importance of O&M of water supply schemes; and (iv) community awareness of
their responsibility for and the importance of the maintenance of drains and soak pits.
- The second objective would be to redefine the job descriptions and responsibilities of District
Extension and Media Officer (DEMO), Block Extension Officer, Health (BEOH) and the
Multipurpose Worker, to give them a greater role in promoting environmental sanitation and
related to health education.
- The third objective would be to create greater awareness of water related and environmental
sanitation problems among health personnel through revised training curriculum.



45
- The fourth objective is to strengthen the water quality monitoring system in rural areas. This
would include the strengthening of the staff and facilities of the state, regional and district Public
Health Laboratories (PHL) in all 30 districts in the state.
(4)   Institutional Strengthening. This component consists of four main subcomponents:
- Project management; includes the employment of consultants to support the Project Planning
and Monitoring Unit (PPMU).
- Community participation; involves the hiring of NGOs to undertake implementation of aspects
of the environmental sanitation and health communication components.
- The strengthening of MWSSB and the Zilla Parishads would be through the provision of office
buildings, equipment and materials.
- Training; would cover personnel from MWSSB and Zilla Parishad Engineering Wings, village
mechanics, village masons, and NGOs' staff.






47                                  Annex 2
Table of Performance Indicators
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11    12   13
Karnataka
A. Negathihalli   0.47  3.59  0.53  3.00  0.12  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.59  0.71  4.00  7.89  0.65
Chandakavadi      0.12  0.73  0.35  2.00  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.17  0.74  3.00  7.22  0.46
Homad mandoddi   0.00  0.00  0.00  1.00  0.00  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.60  1.00  0.00  6.72  0.28
Madhur            0.28  2.12  0.08  5.00  0.04  0.08  0.00  0.00  0.46  0.96  6.67  10.60  0.76
Daginakatte       0.08  0.48  0.20  3.00  0.00  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.28  0.84  8.50  7.40  0.44
Bylanarsipura     0.08  0.48  0.12  4.00  0.08  0.00  0.04  0.11  0.44  0.79  0.00  6.20  0.32
Kembliganahalli    0.16  1.12  0.04  0.00  0.04  0.27  0.12  0.05  0.41  0.77  7.50  8.88  0.76
K. Ankanahalli    0.04  0.27  0.12  5.00  0.08  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.29  0.25  4.00  7.75  0.27
Thyamagondlu      0.24  1.76  0.08  3.00  0.00  0.00  0.04  0.00  0.43  0.86  17.75  3.48  0.12
Kemmale           0.10  0.48  0.00  1.00  0.10  0.08  0.00  0.00  0.33  0.33  4.00  6.74  0.52
Bendigere         0.52  4.16  0.08  3.00  0.12  0.24  0.08  0.06  0.63  0.88  7.00  6.44  0.20
Sreedaragadda     0.56  4.00  0.08  1.00  0.04. 0.47  0.04  0.00  0.93  0.87  5.60  5.92  0.08
Median       0.14  0.93  0.08  3.00  0.06  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.44  0.81  4.80  698  0.38
Mean        0.22  1.60  0.14  2.58  0.06  0.13  0.03  0.02  0.46  0.75  5.67  7.10  0.41
1 = Number of groups                 8 = Construction participation (> 2 days)
2 = Putnam index                     9 = Construction monitoring
3 = Two community activities         10 = O&M any payment
4 = Design performance               11 = Good water group
5 = Hygiene training                 12 = Functioning index
6 = Design participation             13 = Improved health
7 = Satisfactory women participation



48
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11    12   13
Maharashtra
Shahajahanpur     0.24  1.92  0.16  0.00  0.48  0.28  0.04  0.16  0.17  0.84  0.00  5.76  0.76
Pimpalwadi        0.16  1.32  0.00  0.00  0.28  0.00  0.00  0.12  0.00  0.24  5.00  6.72  0.32
Sawargaon         0.04  0.32  0.00  0.00  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.05  0.00  0.00  0.14  1.76  0.52
Bhopala           0.31  2.15  0.00  0.00  0.31  0.04  0.00  0.08  0.00  0.28  0.00  5.98  0.54
Bhoyara           0.17  1.29  0.13  0.00  0.13  0.18  0.04  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.85  0.54
Salgara           0.26  1.63  0.07  0.00  0.41  0.13  0.04  0.09  0.09  0.78  0.00  2.16  0.52
Chata             0.46  3.04  0.21  0.00  0.13  0.06  0.42  0.00  0.00  0.29  5.71  3.10  0.42
Asangaon          0.16  1.16  0.00  3.00  0.28  0.09  0.04  0.00  0.04  0.96  0.00  3.04  0.40
Eksal             0.87  4.60  0.13  1.00  0.33  0.38  0.07  0.08  0.08  0.00  11.83  0.20  0.27
Dedale            0.13  1.13  0.00  1.00  0.00  0.08  0.07  0.00  0.00  0.00  7.50  4.60  0.33
Tarapur           0.40  2.88  0.24  4.00  0.08  0.65  0.28  0.04  0.04  0.87  7.56  3.44  0.52
Waghivali         2.07  0.80  0.00  0.00  0.47  0.36  0.33  0.21  0.25  0.00  8.37  8.20  0.20
Dimbe             0.07  0.33  0.33  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.13  0.00  2.50  0.00  0.00
Waksai            1.12  6.96  0.08  0.00  0.40  0.29  0.28  0.05  0.10  0.19  3.05  7.92  0.84
Bamanwadi         0.60  3.67  0.13  4.00  0.67  0.67  0.47  0.00  0.08  0.93  0.00  10.20  0.80
Sulewadi          1.27  8.33  0.20  1.00  0.73  0.67  0.67  0.07  0.29  0.67  0.11  7.60  1.00
Bhose             1.88  1.44  0.72  1.00  0.44  0.52  0.40  0.05  0.24  0.92  0.00  6.64  0.88
Rangaon           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.33  0.07  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  7.40 .0.60
Nimboori          0.00  0.00  0.00  2.00  0.87  0.00  0.00  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.41  5.00  0.87
Gharod            0.16  1.44  0.00  4.00  0.16  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.75  0.00  4.00  0.12
Median       0.25  1.44  0.08  0.00  0.32  0.11  0.04  0.05  0.04  0.26  0.12  4.80  0.52
Mean        0.52  2.22  0.12  1.05  0.33  0.22  0.16  0.06  0.07  0.39  2.61  4.83  0.52
1 = Number of groups              8 = Construction participation (> 2 days)
2 = Putnam index                  9 = Construction monitoring
3 = Two community activities       10 = O&M any payment
4 = Design performance             II = Good water group
5 = Hygiene training               12 = Functioning index
6 = Design participation           13 = Improved health
7 = Satisfactory women participation



