Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-283 1-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDTA
FOR THE
RAJASTHAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 2, 1980
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their offichl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1          =    Paise 100
US$1          =    Rs 8.40
Rs 1               US$0.1190
Rs 1 million  =    US$119,047.61
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now floating,
the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. As of May 16,
1980 the exchange rate was Rs 7.943 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI    -   Government of India
GOR    -   Government of Rajasthan
PHED   -   Public Health Engineering Department
RWSSB  -   Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Management Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RAJASTHAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:       The Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Management Board
(RWSSB), the Public Health Engineering Department of
Rajasthan (PHED) and participating local authorities.
Amount:              US$80 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    India to the Government of Rajasthan (GOR):  As part
of Central assistance for State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Project
Description:       Water supply facilities would be improved and expanded in
four rapidly growing cities in the State of Rajasthan, and
the sewerage system extended in three of these cities. New
piped water supplies would also be provided to about 2,000
villages. These facilities would enable an additional 242
million liters of water per day (mld) to be supplied to the
2.4 million people in the four cities and provide about 1.7
million people in the 2,000 villages with improved water
supplies by 1985. The project would also develop RWSSB as
an institution capable of planning and implementing sectoral
development programs in Rajasthan. The needs of the urban
and rural poor would be met through water from standpipes
supplied at a modest charge. Credit would also be provided
on easy terms to facilitate sewer connections and basic
plumbing installation by the economically weaker sections
of society. The project faces risks of possible delays in
implementation, and possible revenue shortfalls in rural
areas on account of the untested cost recovery measures
proposed. These risks are expected to be minimized through
provision of consultant assistance, and a GOR undertaking
to make up any shortfalls in revenue collection in rural
areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                            (US$ millions)
Local Foreign Total
Rural Areas - Water Supply
Civil Works                       11.3      -      11.3
Equipment and Materials           18.9    7.0      25.9
Sub-total                    30.2    7.0      37.2
Urban Areas - Water Supply
Civil Works                       15.8      -      15.8
Equipment and Materials           20.7    7.6      28.3
Sub-total                    36.5    7.6      44.1
Urban Areas - Sewerage
Civil Works                        5.7      -       5.7
Equipment and Materials            3.6      -       3.6
Sub-total                     9.3     -        9.3
Engineering                       21.4             21.4
Consultant Services
and Training                     1.4    0.1       1.5
Physical Contingencies            10.8    2.0      12.8
Price Contingencies               32.4    5.3      37.7
Total Project Cost 1/       142.0   22.0    164.0
Financing Plan:                                           (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                      58.0      22.0      80.0
GOR Grant/Loans                 84.0       -        84.0
Total                     142.0     22.0      164.0
Estimated                                          (US$ Millions)
Disbursements:       IDA FY        FY81  FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual           5.7  10.8   12.4   26.0   22.4    2.7
Cumulative       5.7  16.5   28.9   54.9   77.3   80.0
Rate of Return:      About 6%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2865b-IN, dated May 19, 1980.
1/   Includes about US$5 million of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE RAJASTHAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
A          velopment credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$80 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a water supply and sewerage project in four cities
and about 2,000 villages in Rajasthan. The proceeds of the credit would be
channeled to the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) in accordance with the Govern-
ment of India's standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State
development projects. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Gov-
ernment of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate live-
lihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the land-
less or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71
prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share of
industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But this
process of industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing
labor force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that
has led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
in some other developing countries. The urban population was 18% of the total
in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture--
2.5% per annum over the same period--has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign
exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial valued-added has
grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but such a
growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as must be
expected if the overall growth and structural transformation of the economy is
to be accelerated. This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable
domestic saving and investment performance. Gross domestic saving more than



-2-
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed
a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much
lower levels.  ExternaL assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import subsitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the near-by Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the Spring and Summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4%
above that of the previous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the Summer
and Fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed close to the Government's
ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate sup-
plies of grain at stable prices through the public distribution system. The
substantial stocks of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale
drought relief employment program for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80.  Foodgrain production is estimated to have



- 3 -
declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in 1979/80.
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved - still the
fourth highest in Indian history - provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Tndian agriculture.
Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought
conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages which
inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in the use
of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions to the
area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares during the
five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional hectares a
year during the most recent three-year period.  Fertilizer consumption in
1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost 80% higher than
in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impeding resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured non-traditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic, and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major casual
factors.
9.        In constrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports - which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments - have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of exports now exceed
50%.



4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government: may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, and
the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All these are tradeable commodities.
Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate
the shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import - power and transportation -
the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there
is scope for improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization prograns as well as new capacity
are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the medium term.
The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of basic industrial
inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial outout leads to competing
claims on scarce resources which must be efficiently allocated among different
industries.



- 5--
13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to imnlement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
on the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80 rabi season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will -ecome much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be soaewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp decline in the reserve level is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's
reserves may provide a cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional
on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in
oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



-6-
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on thes framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid 1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family, planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a come back
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and non-farm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural



- 7 -
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targetted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA 1/
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively.  Of these amounts, US$1,055 million had
been repaid, and US$3,226 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31,
1980, totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about 44% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.5
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.6 million, US$31.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of March 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
1/   Part II of the Report is substantially the same as Part II of the
President's Report for the Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Report
No. P-2812-IN), dated May 14, 1980.



-8-
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have
recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power
and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changecl world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,516 million, of which US$556 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$960 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



- 9 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN RAJASTHAN
Background
26.       Although State Governments in India have primary responsibility for
the development of water supply and sewerage facilities, the Central Government,
through its five-year plans and/or special programs, has considerable influence
on sector development.  Funds are normally allocated by the Government of India
(GOI) in the form of grants and loans, which State Governments supplement with
local resources. The States execute their responsibilities through various
departments and agencies, which in turn may delegate part or all of their duties
to local authorities.
27.       Since the early 1950's State Governments have endeavored to meet the
increasing demand for services caused by rapidly expanding population and unpre-
cedented rates of urban growth. Competing demands for resources from other high
priority sectors, lack of management and planning skills, and shortages of key
material and equipment have resulted in only 1 to 2% of developmental expendi-
tures being invested in the water supply and sewerage sector.
28.       The present levels of water supply and sewerage services in India
reflect the history of relatively small investments against a background of
rising population and urbanization. In 1976, GOI estimated that only 148
million people or about 24% of India's total population of 618 million had
access to r2asonably safe drinking water and even fewer had acceptable means
of disposal of sewag.
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
29.       The State of Rajasthan, located in the northwestern part of India,
covers an area of about 342,000 km . The topography of the State is prin-
cipally desert or semi-desert. Rajasthan's population, reported as 25.8
million at the 1971 census, is estimated to have increased to about 32 mil-
lion by 1979, of which about 80% live in rural areas (33,305 villages), and
the balance in ab?ut 175 cities and towns. The population density averages
90 persons per kmi2, which is much lower than the overall average for India
of 200 persons/km .
30.       Rajasthan's economy is primarily based on agriculture from which
about 56% of its total income is derived.  The per capita income (1977/78)
in Rajasthan of Rs 925 (US$110) is about 20% below the all-India average.
There are no perennial rivers in the State's,western desert areas where the
main surface water source is the Rajasthan irrigation canal system. The
eastern districts are covered by river systems with highly variable dry-wet
season flows and include some minor lakes. The Rajasthan Groundwater Depart-
ment has comprehensively surveyed the State's geological formations and
reported that groundwater availability is scarce and its quality frequently
poor or unacceptable because of high salinity or excessive fluoride content.
The water supply situation is severe and remote water sources must be dev-
eloped to satisfy consumer needs for reasonable quality water.
31.       About 75% (19 million) of Rajasthan's rural population (26 million)
live in so-called "problem villages" where the water quality is a potential



- 10 -
health hazard or the source is located a great distance away from or is
inaccessible to consumers. By 1979, about 30% of the population of these
problem villages had been provided with piped water supplies, leaving about
14 million without any satisfactory source of water. All urban areas are
presently supplied with water with about 60% of ithe population served by piped
water through private connections and the remaining 40% by standposts or other
means. The supply is inadequate and generally intermittent, the pressure low,
and the distribution uneven.  There is need for further extension of supplies
to ensure a wider coverage of the population in both urban and rural areas.
32.       Sewerage systems in Rajasthan exist in two cities (Jaipur and
Jodhpur) and serve only about 5% of the total urban population. The bulk of
the population rely on a dry latrine conservancy system or have no sanitary
facilities at all. Sanitary conditions, particularly in congested urban
areas, are poor and steadily deteriorating.
33.       The provision of satisfactory water supplies in Rajasthan's rural
and urban areas, and sewerage systems in urban areas would require substantial
investments which cannot reasonably be met within the foreseeable future.
According to State priorities for this sector, the immediate objective is to
provide water supplies to the problem villages, and water supplies and sewerage
to the major cities. In order to achieve these objectives, sector investments
will have to be increased significantly, more appropriate cost recovery
systems introduced and project implementation and system operation capacity
further developed and strengthened.
Sector Organization and Development
34.       Since 1965, responsibility for the water supply and sewerage sector
has been concentrated in the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED).
The PHED undertook project planning and construction, as well as operation and
maintenance of urban and rural water supply systemns, while the operation of
sewerage systems remained with local authorities. In order to better cope
with the needs of the sector, the State Governmenlt has revised the existing
institutional arrangements to provide for greater operational flexibility.
Under a Government Order dated April 28, 1980, effective May 1, 1980 the
Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Management Board (RWSSB), working under
the guidance of a Committee of Direction made up of the State Ministers
responsible for PHED, Fiinance and Planning, has been given the overall res-
ponsibility for directing PHED's sectoral development efforts.
35.       RWSSB is responsible for all sector activities, including the opera-
tion and maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems. GOR does not ex-
clude the possibility of the ultimate development of a two-tier system by the
transfer of responsibility for operation and maintenance of water supply and
sewerage works from RWSSB to local authorities. Any such transfer would, how-
ever, not take place prior to April 1, 1986, and would be subject to the local
authority meeting specific criteria designed to ensure that sound financial
and operational practices are maintained (Section 2.19 of the Project Agreement).
The creation of RWSSB is a step forward in the development of the sector and
consultant assistance will be used for the preparation of proper managerial,
organizational, staffing and accounting procedures and systems which RWSSB
would install in PHED in accordance with an agreed timetable.



- 11 -
Sector Investment and Viability
36.       Investment in the State's water supply and sewerage program was
approximately Rs 1,392 million (US$166 million) during the period FY1950/51
through FY1979/80. Capital investments in the sector for FY1978/79 amounted
to Rs 186 million (US$22 million) and GOR's budgetary allocation for FY1979/80
is Rs 263 million (US$31 million). From FY1980/81 through FY1984/85, when the
proposed project would be implemented, GOR's annual investment in the water
supply and sewerage sector is projected to average about Rs 500 million (US$60
million).
37.       GOR funding of investments in the water supply and sewerage sector
was previously entirely on a grant basis. GOR proposes to continue to cover
capital investments by grants, but for urban water supply, and for the purpose
of maintaining commercial accounts for the proposed project, such investments
would be considered as though they were financed through loans. GOR has increased
its water supply tariffs for all user categories in urban areas effective April
1, 1979. As a result, revenues from urban water supply are expected to cover
operational costs and depreciation in FY1979/80. In rural areas, charges are
imposed for private connections only, and revenues are therefore inadequate to
cover total operating costs which are incurred primarily to provide standpost
water to most of the rural population. Resulting deficits have been met through
GOR budgetary allocations. The State Government objective is to make the sector
financially viable from FY1980/81 through further increases in tariff levels in
urban areas, levying charges for urban sewerage and standposts, and the intro-
duction of cost recovery measures in rural areas commensurate with the bene-
ficiaries' ability to pay (see paras 51-55).
Other Bank Group Activities in Rajasthan
38.       The first Bank Group projects in Rajasthan were a US$52 million loan
(Ln. 1011-IN of June 19, 1974) for the development of the Chambal Irrigation
Canal command area and a US$83 million credit (Cr. 502-IN of July 31, 1974)
for development in the Rajasthan Canal command area. These projects pioneered
the new agricultural extension and research systems in India with encouraging
results. Other components of these projects are also proceeding satisfactor-
ily. The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Credit 737-IN
of November 14, 1977) further extends the Bank Group's participation in the
development of extension and research systems to 17 of Rajasthan's 26 district
with good results in terms of increased crop yields. In addition, a Rajasthan
Dairy Development Project (Cr. 521-IN of December 18, 1974) is currently being
implemented with satisfactory results. The Bank Group is also assisting two
low-rainfall districts of northwestern Rajasthan under the Drought Prone Areas
Project (Cr. 526-IN of January 24, 1975). This project which is designed to
increase and stabilize production in selected districts, is proceeding satis-
factorily. Additional information on these projects is contained in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by PHED with assistance from Bank
Staff and consultants and was appraised in November/December 1979. The Staff



- 12 -
Appraisal Report (No. 2865b-IN, dated May 19, 1980) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1980, with Mr. B. S.
Lamba of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as co-
ordinator of the Indian delegation.
Project Description
40.        The proposed project would be implementecd over five years and covers
approximately 54% of the water supply and sewerage program to be implemented
by GOR through fiscal year 1984/85. The water supply component of the project
would provide for the treatment, transmission and distribution of an additional
242 million liters per day (mld) of piped water to four rapidly expanding
cities (Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner), and improve and extend the sewerage
system in three of these cities (Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bikaner). The project
would also provide new piped water to about 2,000 problem villages located in
ten districts. By 1985, the entire population of 2.4 million in the urban
areas and about 1.7 million people in the rural areas covered by the project
would receive a safe supply of water through private connections and public
standposts. The sewerage component would cover only the congested areas of
the project cities where the conservancy system is predominantly used.
41.        The proposed water supply works in the four cities include the
construction of tubewells, service reservoirs, transmission and distribution
mains, treatment works and about 95,000 connections. The sewerage component
would provide for laterals, interceptors, outfall mains, disposal works and
about 38,000 sewer ccinections. The project also includes consultant studies
for organization and 3taffing, accounting and project monitoring systems,
tariffs, detailed engineering, and health education.
Project Implementation
42.        Under the overall direction of RWSSB, PHE]D  will be responsible for
project implementation and system operation and maintenance of water supply
and sewerage in urban areas and water supply in rural areas. Sewerage systems,
presently the responsibility of local bodies, will be transferred to the State
Government by April 1, 1981 and placed under RWSSB (Section 2.16 of the Project
Agreement). However, for reasons of economy and in order to encourage local
involvement, simple rural water supply schemes will be operated by participat-
ing local bodies. RWSSB will, however, be responsible for providing facilities
through PHED to ensure that they maintain satisfactory operational standards.
43.        RWSSB is made up of a Chairman-cum-Administrator of the rank of
Secretary to the Government, a full-time Financial Adviser, four ex-officio
Secretaries to the State Government and the senior-most Chief Engineer of PHED
working full time as a Technical Member on the Board. The Technical Member
will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of PHED under the Board's
direction. PHED is staffed with adequately experienced personnel to carry out
general design and construction work.  PHED would be organized on a functional
basis with separate departments for project planning and design, construction,
operation, finance and administration. The departments would be organized
into circles, made up of five divisions/subdivisions to a circle. Since a
substantial increase in work is anticipated on account of the large number



- 13 -
of schemes being commissioned under the proposed project, the operations
department of PHED would be strengthened and expanded. RWSSB has engaged
consultants to undertake a study of the manpower and staffing requirements
of PHED in the context of the proposed project to assict it in the develop-
ment of a staff recruitment schedule to be implemented by April 1, 1981.
PHED engineering and operational staff are trained on the job after recruit-
ment or reassignment. Some training in design work by consultants was
undertaken during project preparation. Training in accounting and financial
management has been included in the terms of reference of the accounting
consultant already appointed. The terms of reference of the consultant
already appointed for establishing monitoring and reporting systems include
provision for the training of PHED's staff.  Additionally, a training consul-
tant has been appointed with specific responsibility for the preparation of
an overall training program for PHED. By April 1, 1981, an adequately staffed
training unit would be established within PHED to begin implementing the
training program (Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$164 million
equivalent, including about US$5 million of taxes and duties. The principal
components, net of contingencies, are rural water supplies (US$37.2 million),
urban water supplies (US$44.1 million); urban sewerage (US$9.3 million), engi-
neering costs (US$21.4 million) and consultant services and training (US$1.5
million). Physical contingencies (US$12.8 million) average about 10% for
rural areas and 15% for urban areas. For the raw water transmission main
for Jodhpur, 25% has been applied because of technical uncertainties. Price
contingencies of 8% for FY80, 10% for FY81, 7% for FY82-FY84 and 5% thereafter
have been applied and total about 23% of total project costs (US$37.7 million).
Approximately 900 man-months of consultant services would be needed for the
project, of which about 10 are expected to be for foreign consultants. The
average man-month cost including salary, costs, fees, international travel,
when appropriate, and subsistence is expected to be about US$10,000 for
foreign consultants and US$1,000 for local consultants. In addition to these
personnel costs, the contract cost would include the cost of vehicles, drill-
ing equipment, local transportation and local office operating expenses.
45.       The proposed credit of US$80 million equivalent would finance about
50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes. The credit would finance all
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs (about US$22 million) and US$58
million of local costs. The balance of the funding required for the project
(approximately US$84 million) will be made available by GOR. Retroactive
financing of up to US$500,000 is proposed to cover expenditures incurred in
hiring consultants after May 1, 1979 for the timely implementation of this
project (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Contracts for equipment and material, estimated at about US$65
million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement. A preference
margin of 15% or the current import duty, whichever is lower, would be granted



- 14 -
to local manufacturers in bid evaluation. Other contracts for equipment and
material would involve either small items (below US$150,000) which cannot
readily be grouped into larger bulk contracts and are more suitable for
decentralized procurement, or items unsuitable for ICB because of high trans-
portation costs and/or high risk of damage in transit (e.g., cencrete and
stoneware pipes). These contracts, estimated at about US$15 million, would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with
local bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
47.       The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$52 million, including contingencies. Because of the dispersed nature of
the project and the limited possibilities of grouping the contracts, there
would be about 400 civil works contracts involved in rural areas and about
80 in urban areas. Only one contract, involving the laying of a transmission
main to the city of Jodhplar would be large--of the order of US$26 million,
including contingencies--while the average size of the other contracts would
be about US$50,000 in rural areas, and US$300,000 in urban areas.  The
majority of the contracts would comprise labor-intensive pipe laying works.
The contract for the transmission main for Jodhpur would be awarded on the
basis of ICB, while the balance of civil works contracts would be awarded on
the basis of LCB, or in exceptional cases be executed by force account. A
margin of preference of 7.5% would be granted to local contractors in bid
evaluation under ICB.
48.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i) for equipment and material contracts, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) or 35% of Local expenditures for
locally procured goods; (ii) for civil works 100% oE foreign expenditures and
35% of local costs; and (iii) consultant services and staff training, 100% of
costs. Disbursements against civil works for one or more progress payments
not exceeding Rs 300,000 (about US$35,700) and for material and equipment
contracts for payments not exceeding Rs 150,000 (about US$17,900) would be on
the basis of statements of expenditures. The supporting documentation for
these expenditures would be subject to local audit and would be retained for
inspection by review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all
other items would be fully documented.
Financial Results and Accounts
49.       PHED presently maintains its accounts on a simple cash basis in
accordance with government practices. These cash records, however, do not
provide adequate financiaL data to evaluate performance. A restatement of
PHED's accounts in a commercial manner indicate that prior to FY1979/80,
revenues from water supply operations in urban and rural areas have been
inadequate to cover operating costs. The operating deficits on urban water
supply services in FY1977,/78 and FY1978/79 were Rs 25.7 million (US$3.1
million) and Rs 31.2 million (US$3.7 million), respectively. Corresponding
figures for rural water supply operations for the same years were Rs 29.5
million (US$3.5 million) and Rs 34.0 million (US$4.0 million).
50.       Under the project, consultants have been appointed to establish a
commercial accounting system to be implemented not 'Later than April 1, 1981
(Section 3.02(a) of the Project Agreement). The commercial accounting system



- 15 -
will be supplemental to the governments own accounting system and will provide
for billing and collection practices which will be designed to ensure that
commencing with fiscal year 1981/82 accounts receivable will not exceed the
value of three months' billings to customers in urban areas or four months
billings to the local bodies in the rural areas (Section 3.04 of the Project
Agreement).
Tariffs
51.       Until recently, tariff levels in urban areas were inadequate to
provide sufficient revenues to cover operational costs. Action already taken
by GOR on April 1, 1979, has resulted in increased tariffs per 1,000 liters
for urban water from Rs 0.60 (US$0.07) to Rs 0.80 (US$0.09) for domestic
consumers, from Rs 0.90 (US$0.11) to Rs 1.20 (US$0.14) for commercial users,
and from Rs 0.90 to Rs 1.60 (US$0.19) for industrial users. This increase is
expected to enable RWSSB to cover its running costs and depreciation in
FY1979/80.
52.       The project provides for a tariff study to assist the development
of a new structure and establish rates which will maximize income, minimize
waste and provide a reasonable level of service to the lower income groups at
a price they can afford. The study would also evaluate whether rates should
be applied uniformly to all urban areas or be adjusted to suit particular
local conditions. It is expected that the new tariff policy will be intro-
duced by April 1, 1981 based on the recommendations of the tariff study
(Section 2.15 of the Project Agreement).
53.       With the introduction of the new tariff policy, RWSSB should be
able to develop a sound financial position for its urban operations through-
out the project period. Its revenues should be adequate to cover its operat-
ing expenses, including depreciation or debt service, whichever is the greater,
for fiscal year 1981, and be adequate to produce a rate of return on net fixed
assets of at least 2% for fiscal year 1982, 3% for fiscal year 1983, 5% for
fiscal year 1984, and 8% for fiscal year 1985 and thereafter (Section 3.03
of the Project Agreement). These targets imply that RWSSB would have to
increase tariffs for domestic consumers in all urban areas from the existing
rate of Rs 0.80 per 1,000 liters to an average rate of Rs 1.15 (US$0.13) per
1,000 liters by fiscal year 1984/85. Corresponding increases for commercial
and industrial users would be Rs 1.71 (US$0.20) and Rs 2.30 (US$0.27), respec-
tively. In the city of Jodhpur, however, it will be necessary to substan-
tially increase the rate in 1985 to approximately double the average 1984/85
rate for other urban areas to justify the significant investment costs involved
in construction of the Jodhpur raw water transmission main. RWSSB also plans
to initiate a sewerage charge effective April 1, 1981, following the transfer
of responsibility for providing the sewerage service from the municipalities
to RWSSB (Section 2.16 (b) of the Project Agreement). This sewerage charge
is expected to be equivalent to about 40% of the current water rate and
would apply to all premises with a water connection and within a prescribed
distance from a sewer main (Section 2.15 (ii) of the Project Agreement).
54.       Standpost water supply in urban areas is presently provided free
of charge. Under the project, GOR will initiate a charge for standpost water
supply which would be borne by the appropriate local body and recovered



- 16 -
from users.  The charge is to be based on a rate of one rupee per month per
person being served by the facility. In the case of non-payment by the
local body, GOR will reimburse PHED for any shortfall in payments (Section
2.17 of the Project Agreement).
55.       In rural areas there is presently no charge levied for standpost
water supply and the charge for water connections is at a flat rate of Rs 8
(US$0.95) per month. RWSSB plans to meet the operating and maintenance costs
of its rural water supply system from fiscal year 1981 and would be required
to ensure that each participating local authority would contribute the equiva-
lent of 2.5% towards the capital costs of its schemes (Section 2.14(b) and (a)
of the Project Agreement).  In order to achieve this result, RWSSB would be
required to increase its rural water charges to an equivalent of a Rs 10
(US$1.19) per month for water connections and Rs 1 (US$0.12) per head per
month for water supplied through standposts. The local bodies would be
responsible for paying RWSSB for this service and for recovering the costs
involved. It is expected that charges for individual rural water supply
schemes would be based on the size of the population served, with procedures
for its collection adjusted to meet particular local conditions. This
approach is largely untested and some collection problems can be anticipated.
Consequently, GOR would be responsible for making up for any shortfall in the
collection of such charges (Section 2.14(c) of the Project Agreement).
Benefit-Cost Justification
56.       Th2 project wouLd increase the population served with water supply in
the four cities by 41' from about 1.7 million in 1979 to about 2.4 million in
1985. Consumption levels in these cities would rise by approximately 6 lcd
from its present level of 130 lcd during the same period. The population
provided with sewerage in the three project cities would increase by 130% from
about 283,000 (1979) to about 659,000 (1985). The 2,000 or so villages covered
by the project presently served with unsafe water drawn from wells and other
occasional sources will receive a constant supply of about 50 lcd of safe
piped water which would be adequate to meet domestic needs. The population
served in these villages will increase to about 1.7 million by 1985.
57.       The average costs for water supply and sewerage vary significantly
between the four cities but the recommended technical solutions (choice of
water source, network configuration, staging of construction, etc.) are based
on least-cost considerations, amounting to about US$38 per capita for rural
water supply, US$36 per capita for urban water supply and US$27 per capita
for sewerage calculated on, the basis of the population served in FY85. The
internal rate of return is about 4% for the four cities if labor is valued
at its full market price and about 6% if labor is valued at 75% of its market
price. These rates are reasonable, considering the fact that water is scarce
commodity in Rajasthan, with economic and social value considerably exceeding
its tariff. Furthermore, the present level of tariffs in Rajasthan is already
among the highest in India. In order to arrive at the foregoing financial
results, tariffs for domestic consumers would have to increase in the project
cities (except for Jodhpur) from the existing average rate of approximately
Rs 0.80 (US$0.09) to an average rate of Rs 1.15 (US$0.13) per 1,000 liters
for FY84/85. These rates would approximate to about 3-4% of average family



- 1 7 -
income which would still be within the consumer's ability to pay. In Jodhpur
the rates would amount to about 6% of average family income (see para 53).
58.       The project will enable all sections of the urban and rural com-
munity, including the urban and rural poor, to have access to piped supplies
of potable water. The provision of water supplies in rural areas would in
particular help to alleviate the hardship, drudgery and disease which result
from the present arrangements for water supply. The project would develop
RWSSB's capability in planning and executing programs through the provision
of additional training for technical and administrative personnel of PHED.
The project would also foster the practices and concepts of sound engineering,
cost recovery and efficiency pricing in the public sector.
59.       The total population to be served with piped water on completion of
the project would amount to 4.1 million, made up of 2.4 million in the urban
areas, and about 1.7 million in the rural communities, many of whom belong to
the lower income groups. Approximately, 5,000 standposts would be provided
in rural areas to serve the needs of the rural population. This would help to
reduce the daily waiting time for water and shorten walking distances. Apart
from a limited number of standpipes to serve the slum areas, the remaining
urban population would be served by metered connections. Also concessional
credit would be extended by RWSSB to the lower income groups of the community
to facilitate sewer connections and to meet basic plumbing installation costs
(Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement).
60.       Available health statistics do not record the incidence of water-
and sanitation-related diseases throughout the project area. However,
Rajasthan water sources have a long history of guinea worm infestation and
excessive fluoride. The proposed project would minimize the incidence of
disease resulting from water that has been so contaminated. The resulting
health benefits, which are expected to be significant, have not been quan-
tified.
61.       The risks involved in the project are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type. The GOR sector development plan
presently under execution is ambitious and a considerable effort is required
for its timely implementation; therefore, the possibilities for delays cannot
be excluded. With appropriate consultant assistance and adequate monitoring
to ensure the timeliness of financial and other resources, completion of the
project within the planned period would seem likely.
62.       The proposed cost recovery system in rural areas is untested and the
revenue collection from standpost users in both rural and urban areas might
not be realized as projected. However, arrangements have been made under the
project for GOR to meet any shortfalls in covering the operation and main-
tenance costs and to recover them from funds allocated to the defaulting local
authority.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Govern-
ment of Rajasthan and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 2, 1980



ANNEX I
IYDA - SOCUL INDICATORS DA TA S1                       Page  1 of 5
RUEERECE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A*AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EK.)                                            - MOST  CENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL          3287.6                                              54E         SAME    NEIT 8IG1E6
AGRICULTIRL    1818.3                              MST RECENT    GEOGRAPIC   INCOME         NCOME
1960 lb   1970 A ESTIMATE A        REGION L    GROUP d   GROUP
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                60.0       90.0    I80.0           191.1      209.6      467.5
ENERGY CONSUEPTTON P2R CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS O COAL EQ0IVALIT)    142.0      181.0    218.0            69.1       83.9      262.1
POPULATION AID VITAL STATISTICS
POPMTLTION, =-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9       547.6    631.7Lf
UN   POPUI.ATION (PERCIT Of TOL) 17.9         19.7     20.7.          13.2       16.2       24.6
POPLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YUR 2000 MILL0INS)                    973.0
STATIONARY POPLATION (MILLIONS)                    1643.0
TEAR STATIONXAY POPULATION IS EAUED                2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 4.                     132.0       167.0    192.0           86.6       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. 1U4. AGRICLTURL        247.0       30S.0    347.0          330.2      252.0      149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEST)
0-14 YnS.                       40.8       42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1       45.2
15-64 YnS.                       55.7       54.6      55.0           52.4      53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.5        2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PU1CEDST)
TOTAL                            1.9         2.3      2.1            2.4        2.4        2.7
tREAN                            2.SLa      3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6        4.3
CRUDE BIRTE RATE (PER TImUSD)    43.0        40.0      35.0           44.4       42.4       39.4
CRUDE DEATN RATE (PEuL TOUSAND)    21.0       17.0     14.0           16.4       15.9       11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2        2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9        2.7
'AMILY PLANTING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0    3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MAID WOMN)   ..           12.0     16.9            7.9       12.2       13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
SNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCaION
P2i CAPITA (1969-71-100)       100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4      98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT 0P
REQUIREMENTS)                 95.0        92.0     89.0           93.0       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        51.0       53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1       54.3
OF WIIICH ANIAL MMD PULSE     19.0        16.0     12.6           10.4       13.6       17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) N4XTALITY RATE    28.0      22.0      18.0           19.2       18.5       11.4
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SLRTH (TEYRS)   43.0      48.0      51.0           49.1      49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PU
THOUSAND)                            -      134.0       ..              ..      105.4       6S.1
ACCESS TO SAP! WATE (PEENT 0p
POPULATION)
MOTAL                             *        17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3       34.4
DREAN                             ..       60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                             ..        6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8       21.2
ACCESS TO EXCIEZTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             *-       18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0       40.8
URSAN                             ..       85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1       71.3
RURAL                             ..        1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5       27.7
OpULATIOnm PER PTSICcIN         5800.OLh   4S90.0   3135.0           7107.9   11396.4     6799.4
POPULATION PER NRING PFSON      9630.OA    5220.0   6320.0         12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         2590./i   2020.0   1231.0           Z738.4    1417.1       726.5
0RSAN                             ..         ..        ..             ..      197.3      272.7
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..             ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         ..        ..             ..       24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUStEOLD
-OTAL                            5.2         ..       5.2             *-       5.3         5.4
UIBAN                            5.2 *               4. 8                     4 4.9       5.1
RURAL                            5.2         ..       5.3             ..        '.4        5.5
AVERAGE UNNER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-OTAL                            2.6        2.S        ..
UR3AN                             ..         ..       ..
RL'RAL                            ..         ..        ..
ACCESS -0 -ILECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF WNE'LL:SGS)
,OtAL                             . .        ..       ..              .       22.5       2'.1
'SAN                              ..         ..        .5 ..                   17. a       5.1
RURAL                             ..         ..       ..              ..         .         9.3



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
INDLA                      - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SUi        SAME     NEXr HIGHER
MOST RECEN      GZOCRAIPIC    INCOME       INCOHE
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMTE /b       REGION Jc   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                 80.0        87.0       94.0            74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE               40.0        55.0       63.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        29.0       28.0            19.5       16.7         21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0       38.0            217.8      22.1         33.0
FEKALE               10.0        17.0       18.0            10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   8.0          6.0LJ      ..             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
aI}tARY                           29.0        40.0       42.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0         17.0       ..               ..       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0         33.0      36.0            25.5       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0        1.2             2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0       24.0            15 5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ,,         0.1        0.5              ,,        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0         16.0      16.0             6 2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL AITTNDANCE PER CAPrFA  4.0          6.3       3.8              .,         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   1118670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6       32.2            21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0        73.0       73.0            66.3       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       11.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION FATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8       36.9         37.1
HALE                                57.1         52.3      51.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2            15.7       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.1       1.1             1.3        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCKE
R ECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1       ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.971       ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.771      ..              ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.27;1     ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       83.0            86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       73.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0            50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       47.0            44.3       44.1         24.8
RULRAL                              ..          ..       52.0            52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
INor applicable.
SOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among :he
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to anv year between 1959 and .961; for 1970, becween 1969
and 1971; and Eor Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
c    South Asia;  'd  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle 'ncome (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1978 mid-gear population is estimated ac 640.4 milllon;   Li  1951-60;   :h  1962;
1953;       1967;   !k  1978 mid-year labor force 's estimated ac 261 million;   ,   1964-o5.
Most Recenct Estimate of CNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
SN-41TIO    O  SOCIAL InSIEATOPS                                                                     Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Slthoogh the dat. err dram   fete sore  ge.erIly judged the  -et sthsritative  sad reliable  It eheuld  Uls  be nted that they may set be inhere--
tiemmly  -oparable becaue of the itch ef etandrdise.d defiaitiosa sad escepte used by differet countries Ascolvta  the data. The data see, soethelesa,
usful to describe ordere of magitude, indicate trends, sad oh-rteriee crefais major difference  hetmecs cotrie..
Theedustd  roc eeresfor oso  iudio-to  ero Ppopsatio-seighted geometric men, selding the eutrem   vauos of the  oliot-r sad the most poplated
ocutr  issuh gou.  Tisto isc  of data, g-pa-rer .e  of all isdiustors fee Capital Surplus Oill  Eqrtero sad of icdi-stors of Access to Water sad Eoreta
Dispos-I, Hcieg, Iscoas Dihtrihutice sad P9soery for other ro-ty groups are ppulatioe-sightcd geomtric mea  cithout emo1uise of the estresi  vaussd
the mosttiPo.sslted coutry.  Sinc  theceeree  f osutriss s-9a the iadicater  dpseds us avilbsility  of data sad Is net u-if.r-. castihe  eut he enerlsd
:. .rlaie  avrages of  ec dedicatorto nte.These a-mrg.s see metly useful as apprsmmtoa   f"xpce"ouuaeanuaaieg the values of us
iadicator at stime ste    the cousin  and reference greps.
SAND AREA (thousadf,stAt.)                                                                     cest   uceaSsea  (percentf wpoppg4pj  htel urban  sad rr -
Total - Totalsrfa  arc -        mprisiog ladarsad  ialsssd eaters.                           Nmeofpeo I ttl,uban, eidrhiiITicresby seres  ipoa  as  
Agr-icultural -  moet r-eet esthate of sgi-cutur1 are  used temp-srrly                       per-etages of their resp-ti-n popslatices.  mrE-ta disposal  say isciude
or pormanetly for crops, pastures,mskt and hitobha gerdese or te                           the col11otios and disposal1, sith or sitheut treateect, of hue  e--reh
lIe fallo.                                                                                 and sushe-eater by eater-hors  syster  or tic us  of pit prides and  _.ilar
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP Pcr capita estimat.es  t ru-et maket prcs                           uualeecPyicis  - Ppulatics dirided by sunder of preesiciag physicians
calc-latrd by em   coeriesthed -  Weld B-k5 Ahtle (1976-78 basis);                           qaiidfe       eia   cola   nvriylvl
1960, 19Y70, and 1978 data.                                                                 pulatiuc Per peris  Persos - rPpultic  divided by somber of p-aticisp  -ml
tgENGY CONSUMsPT ION PiER CAPITA  A-.Asna vonsptios of  -smerial esegy                         and female grdumteus p.,-patical aures, eel  -istantsee.
(col sd lgnie,  etrle, stural gas sad  ydro -,         er  n  gee-Pplto   o    optlN   - total   ra_                                a      e   - Po9. pulaio  (sbi  urdc
thereal  electr.Icity) Is kilogram   of coal equiralct poe capits; 1960                      and  rurl)'  'divde  by their repT     ic   udrefhsiahdsalsies
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                         PubliIc sad prIvate gesena  and ePeoiliced h-siPita  and echsbilitatienvc-t-r
Soapotals arc establde`nets permanetly staffed by at least us  physIicia.
POPuLrATION ADil VITAL STATISICSC                                                              Istahi,ebmeete providing prisoipaly custodial earn ar  not ittl ded.  ural. 
Total Po,oltic..  Isid-Ysa  (silliuns) - Os of July 1; 1960, 1970, sad                       houpitals, h-evr, include health and medical.. cetr  sot peresnetly cItftid
1977 daa                                                                                   by a physicia  (bit by a medical assistant, nure, midwife, etc.)  h-h offer
linac Popp   atios (cercet of total) - Patio of urban to total popoisties;                   ispatient uom dtissd provide a limited renge of medical facil,ites.
4                    differest defiolticenof urban area  ey sffctt comprability of data                       Admissions  r- H-s  iatl Nd - Total sober of admissi.s. to or ddsi-hgee  feos
amoeg cutis  16,1970, and 1975 dt.                                                          hospitl  divide  by the somber of bedu.
Papulatio- Is y      2rio   - Corv-t populatioc projections ar  basedv                HOUSING
195ttlpplative by age and  no and their mortality and fertility               AVerag  lie   of Hous~ehld (personsh per househod) - tota.1  rban, and rurl 
rates. Projeocioc Parmtr  fc mortality rates ...spri_r of tbr_c                          A houshol  c-aists of a group of leIviul   b   hr   liy                   atr  o
levels snheeing life eup-etany at birth i......slog  ith coutry's                       their maesels   A boarder or ldgcr sey or s,s  sot is  ioloded is tbn
Per -pit. inom     -evl  sad fsaalc life  -op-etany stbilising at                        h_ushbsd for statistical purpo-e.
7.yer.The paaser   o  fortuity rate slut hare thre  leel                         veae  ete  o   croue r a-itetl. urban  and  Aial -Aeege vuib-O
eseog declides i  fertility s-ovoeng to   se   leve  ad past                         ofpesnsp            .rs  in all urban  and  rurl ocuid      -ovrsiocl d-elioiW-
fealY claniag performanc. Vendh cotunr  is thee assigned use of these                    rcsc -ti-ly.  DIhelisgt seclude co-p.-ehaet  trot-ue  sad u--v.p-e  farM>
ode  cobianisoof mortality and fertility trends foe projetion                    Ioes    Eolsteic'ty (Peruses ofidmelllsgs  - total,  min, and rurnl - . 
purposes.                                                         venh~~~~~~~~~~~.. i onal d-elig  with eletriity Inivisg quarters  as .prcetage
Stationry pcpuloti-o  - Is a stationary population inhcr. Is no growti                     total, urban, andrura  daeUiigm  r-po-tiVety.
mvtbc 'birthvasieqa  to tbe death rate, and als  the age
strutur  remituoetant. Thin iu sahiered  only after fertility rates                 EDUCATONi
decinst  h   epaeeilecc-i of unit set  prepeomtion rats, when                         Adjusted  nlescPto
Inhgsrto    f oe           IIelae   isc.if coutly.  The statioaypp-              Piary school - total   aesdfs               -r         onl   aeadfml   noi
Intit vie-e  estimated on the bmois ofthe projected charurteistice                         mes  of all ages at theprs          evel anpecntgs  frc,prtdv- Prisay
of the populetio  in the yea  2000, and the rate of decline of fertility                   school-age ppulatioss; sosaly leldes vhiloree aged i-il year  ho.
rate to  _plaveeeot level                                                                  adjusted for differen.t lcngths of priasry eduatioo; fo .. ...nrino viti
Y-artatissary  poplotion in reached - The year chin  statio...ry populetics                  uiversal e~duca..     er.....ts  snsd lid pertns  s-e soa  pupole
cIte ban  eeea_d.                                                                          are Ic.n  or soeb_ h  offioond`sho  age.            td         1-
D-oato  nsity                                                                         iSe2adary sool-itetl, mole adfeml    Cmuedn iM.c   vinir
Per og. bkn. - gd-yeur population  por squar  kilometer (iio hect-re) of                     educaIon reuie   ohlat four year  of approved primary dcrvi
'totl arsprovider general_ catl l  ortace  training  Cutooin.,frppl
Poet.  c  egrio-itural hand - Conputed us  bst- for agricultural land                        usually of 12 to 17 yersofag; crestpondest- Iources se  g--Illy
only.                                                                                       - ccldsd
e.Plation AelS-utt-    erv-ot  - Children  (i-l4 y-ar), needig-age                         Vocationa-so lcc           ...r..t of -ecoedry) - Vu-tsone-io hihuti.t--irlaoe
(153l6lj4iKT7 d r-tdrd  (65 yearn  ed over) as prceetages of mid-yea.rbrtl  industrial, or othe r pegrm- sto-h op-rts  iodpepdreolyor5
Poultion len  late    cres)-toa              -Anua  crest  rates of total mid-             P,pltshrrti      rmr,ad sodtr   - Total students  -uso1   iv
yapOpuaton   for  95-,107,ad 1970-77.                                                   Peisat=y  and scondry leel  diieIynir   . teacher   c tin  -oeen
Population Iroi   at  (percet) - urban-_Annual groth rates of urban                             poding  s-el..
popultion   fo  1950-mi, 1960-70, ned 1970-75.                                             Adelt litenop rate  (percet) - lit-to   adoltoI (ably ti rea  sod ordit)c
CrudeBirth dais (per thousad) - Annual lIce tirths por thousad of ao-a peroetags of total  dadut pspolatio  aged d5  -eroad over.
year populatiss; 1951, 1970., and 1977 data.
_rud  leash Pats (per thousad) - Anneal desthcpritioo Pct, -         1i ed-your          CONSNiCP(TON
population; 1960,R1970, sad 197  data.                                                    PoNsager C-r  per th-sod population) - Panoesgrr cars vopeise mtrir
Iro erducio  PteO  A- Ovrge  unh- of d-oght-saosc   ill ber                            seating Icec than eight person; secldes amb.ioec  hease  nd   uiar
is -r -oma  -prod-ctov- pero-d if ode v-peri-..ee          . prests a-                   veisil-s
specific  fertIity  nt-s; usualy flo-yea   -onrges  -diog do 1960,                     Paddy,1. P  icever  )psr thouad population) - All types of recever  toe radio
1970, and 1975.                                                                            broaeats in gS_eel public per thousad of popoltioc; secldes olive--r
easi,ly Plnig - Acce Ptors  Anua thousnds   -Annual euIc  of                                 -eevr   on  oontries and In years  h- registration of ralt  cvtoou_oI 
acetr   f btit-cotrel deeosond-e mepie  of national  family                          e~ffect; dsta for recet yearn ca  sot he vomprabIe si-  not  -oonei-
piansing progran.                                                   n~~~~~~~~~~~b.isihed lIcens ing.
tsniy Phning- lers (erceti ofmaried scne) -  o-ectage of csrid                    TV Peos1Iives1 (~pe  thuad poplntios) - TV recivers foe broaut-t ti  geocr..l
ossof child-hearingag  (15-hi  yas  who one  lrth-ountrs1 devices                      pulcpehuad popu.lato; secldes omilsensd TeVeinri --otri-
to  l,  -oried   een Is som  age group.                                                    and  n year  se  registrati-on   f TV set ssa  or. effect.
Neospaper Circulation (per theusand poultion) - ih-  the overge circulatio
PFOOD ANI) NUTRITION                                                                           of  daily generaliners  set-pper, defined as s p-riodi-1 pbli-httlo
I.dee of Pool -Prduetiot pee Capita (1969-71-dioo) - ffidec of Peer -pita                    deotedi primarily to recording gen.erl .e.. i.   t Is considerd so he "dully'
snMal prcduetio   o f al  food costditi-  Production secldes uned td                       if It 5ppear  st least fou  times a see.
f-l and          -1on -aed-r yea  basis.  Csmodiliet1ecee  prienry goods                Ciase  Annual Attnac  prCpta             -cPa  - AnsedI on  heyonde  of, tivsets
(..cffe   ndr   r   oldd.Aggregate pr-doctco  of eah coutry                             its..
Is tasd o   naioa        ..eg  psuee price uighta.
Pee capita soley of elre   (eren  of reqireets    Computed free                       BhORP PORCE
enrg   qui-alet if set food suppliesaviabe          Is outr  pe -cpit.            Total Lbor F-re (thnussed) - EIcon..ically active persona,. including arce
per day.  Available  opplien coprise doostie Pr-d-tso, deporsle                          force  are unemplyed bet -olodise htoo.esi-v, studnats,  stI. Isfisiti-
reports, sod  bhog-e Is stusk.  Net oupplis nuleIc. anisa  feed, seeds,                  ic vaious coonsris  are sot coparable.
quantities use;d ic food Procesig, ad  ios  sdibtriduin. Pequir-                      Pee~le .r.ent) - Peenlo Isr fort  as  per-eohgs ,pf sisa~l labor force.
sente were  oiated by PAO'binnd on pblsniolosgia  or-ds foe  ormal                               _.  pes~rc t    Labor force Is farmig, fsrestry, hunting and
.5.                         as~~~~~tivoty and health conidering cevie oneta  temp_rma-r, lody  eigha,                fishing us p.rerteage of total lab- force.
ag  an  sec distributio-  of populaio,rned1allesingt iiprcn  fee                     inluaI,tr  (pers...a) - Lete force is mining,  -ontrotlon,  -ssfanturog sod
easiest houssield leosi.                                         elec~~~~~~~~~trilty, mter an:d gas, anh pecetage oftta     or force.
P   ee npita supply of p-t-eo  (grat  per dyp) - Protein connet .ipe.Prtiolnietn Oat  (pret- oa,ml,ad f~Eiale-Irt~Icoa eo
capita  ot supply of fe.d per dy. Net supply of fond is deli-do  asativity rate  are competed astotal, male, and femal  labor foreaspr
adoRn  equirenests for all e-ute... -teblidhed by USDA provide foe a                     Iane  oftoal    -osad female paplelti-n of s   ag- repectively;
cinsai  alcoaceIf 60 grsn  of tonal protele per ds  sad 20 grat  of                 1960,1970, and  d975 ta.  Thes  are SILOpar -tIcopahi-  rates  rfl'tti
4                           a~~~~~nimal and pulse pr-tcoc, of ehivh 11 gras   hsuld he animal prnteis.                  I-et-Ietur  oftshe  poplation, sad long tine steal.  o fee voiente
The ersadarlo ar  lover than those of 75 gram  of totsl protein and                  arefrom  nationa I      _cre..
23 gras  of animal protein noa         -erge for the ourld, proposed by PAl           F-soleI      -teeny Rlatlo  - e Ptioof populet-c  eIne 15 and 65 and over to
~ethe Third World Peed lur..ey.                                                        theI lab or force fod  1 iage grop of1-hi year..
deivetfo   aimals adplse  ingrsspe  day                                           INCIME DISTRIBUTIOPV
Cul  ae   -)SraiyPt   prthousand     - Annoe  deaths Poe thousand                          Peresatage of Privute oons  Acidh isr -ah and khid) - Pe-ivd by- richest
in age group 1    er, is chi ldes  In this a!~ge -ode  foe mos t levl-                     5pretriohet Ipercent  Poorest20 pers...t, and poo..c.t 40 percet
opig  ousris dtaderIved fro  life table.o oshls
HALTHC                                                                                     POVERTY TARILT GROUIPS
Life Espect-ny as Birth(er) - Aergs sombr of years of life                                 Estimated Abeeluis Poverty Income I-e1 (uSI$ per vs pita) -  rban  -o ruralI
remining at birth;90  17,ad 1977. data                                                    Absolute poverty I-ct  leve  he that iscone 1r-1 he1m  uhih a sielma
Infant Murtali1ty Pate (e  iuad   - Anneal deaths of isfants under on                        notitic..sily adequate diet plus essential oon-foud reqoiresento  is cot
year of age Per thousand lice births,                                                      affordable.
Access to Safe Hater Isereet ofsplsie- total, urban,and  -sIre  -                          gotimatd Pelative Pety Isos eel(1  pee  -aita) - urban and rurl
Nubro  pe   total, urban, adrrl          drasebeacest                              oalrltv pRe_tyInome l4evel is one-third of averagSe P.e  -apina
safe water supply (includes treated surfsee eaters  -r untreated bet                       pereesal mueof the osutry. Orhanleve  Is len  ~d  f.o. tie  rural leve
uevostseinated eater ouch as that frcm protected berehles, sprlmas,                        tb  adjueternt for highrr vest of living do urban area.
and saitary sells) as percentages of their respective popu`atos. In                       stimated Pepulatiu- Belos Abselute Poverty inoeLvl)eee(-ubnad
an urban area apublic fountain or stndp.st lsoatsd as  mor  than                           rural _ Percent  ofpepultise (urban and rua)  h  areo  
2lo meers frsahouse as  is oesidered as being eithia'reassble
-Ivesa ef that hous,..       rura - "ea  rsaacble ar-a  eu1d imply
that tts h-_solf  ormebers of she hossehe1d do so"t hav  hepeed atooie and Social lass Di-osio
diepeuportio..ait  part of the Isy is Cstehing the faaily'e water needs                                                       Economic An-yis and Projections lepart-t
August 1979



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOM7C DEVELOPtMENT DTA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$ 180
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                              ANNUtAL RATE OF GROWTH (7%  constant prices)
USS Bln,        %                 1955/56-1959/60   1960161-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974175   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                  117.08      100.0                       3.7                3.6               3.7                 2.8                5.6
Gross Domestic Investment              28.28       24.2
Gross National Saving                  28.11       24.0
Current Acceunt Balance  d/             0.50        0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force              V.A. Per Worser
US$ Bln.             7.             Mil.          .            USS        7. of National Average
Agricult-re                         24.5              46.6             130.0       72.1            188                64
Industry                            11.8              22.3              20.2       11.2           582               199
Services                            16.3              31.-L             30.2       16.7            542              186
Total/average                       52.6             100.0             180.4      100.0            292              100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                               e/
General Gove-mnent                                             Central Government
Rn. Bn10            % o  GDP                                   Rs.Bln.              of GDP
1978179     1978/79  1974/75-1978/79                           19789    1978/79   1974/75-1978/79
Cucrent Receiptn                   183.65        19.1          18.3                               107.71       11.2          10.6
Current Expenditures               177.26        18.4          16.7                               108.99       11.3          10.1
Current Surplus/Defioit              6.41         0.7           1.6                               - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/            78.41         8.1           7.2                                57.34        6.0           5.1
External Assistance (net) hI         8.15         0.8           1.4                                 8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71      1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78     1978/79   September 1978   September 1979
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              121.4        198.4        220.3       254.7        308.9        370.4       445.6         398.5           473.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)    52.6          87.3         95.3       101.1        110.2       134.7        153.9         139.5           161.7
Bank Credit to Coenernial Sector   64.6         107.0        126.7       153.9        185.1       212.2        253.3         225.8           273.8
(Percentage or Index Nssbers)                                             January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Money ax X
of GDP                           30.1         33.5        31.5         34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
ahalesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0        139.7       174.9        173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annual percentage chanRge in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         20.2        25.2         - 1.1         2.1          5.2          -            0.4            20.9
Bank Credit to Government (net)    10.8          12.3          9.2         6.1          9.0        22.2         14.3          16.9            15.9
Bank Credit to Co.sercial Sector   19.4          22.6         18.4        21.5         20.3        14.6         19.4          15.6           21.3
oI  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices., caculated by the conversion technique used in the World bank Atlas, 1979.
All other converniens to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank extimaten; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third partiex have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENS                     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
USS Mln.       7
Exports of Goods                        5,753      6,315       6 976      7,800           Engineering Goods              671        11
Imports of Goods                       -5,928     -7,188      -8,488    -11,000           Tea                           420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175     -  873      -1,512     -3,200           Gems                          499          8
NFS (net)                                 379        692         882      1,050           Clothing                       378         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                          204      -181        - 630    -2,153                    Products               319         5
Jute Manufactures             251          4
Interest Payments (net) _/               -182      -  89         130        400           Iron Ore                       270         5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -          -                     -             Cotton Textiles                248         4
Net Transfers   j/                        695      1,077       1,000      1,000           Sugar                          224         4
-750         Others                       2,649        45
Balance on Current Account                717        807         500       -750
Total                       5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                       1,955       1,628       1,695      1,870           EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                          -560       -645        -702    -   687                                              US$ billion
Transactions with IF                     -337       -330        -158        -             Outstanding and Disbursed                 15.5
All Other Itens                          -200        616         199    - -183            Undisbursed                                5.2
Outstanding, including                   20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1.575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747      5,823       7,357      7,607                                           h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/             3,276      5,668       7,357      7,607           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                                USS million
of which: Petroleum                 1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                           IBRD            IDA
Exports                                    37         32          24        -             Outstanding and Disbursed       689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                     21         18        n.a.        -             Undisbursed                     614             2,621
Outstanding, including        1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
Rs 1.00 - US$0.122
End-December 1979                       : US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Rs 1.00 - US$0.126
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN      1972   India    Population                 --        21.2      .33
342-IN      1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.31
356-IN      1973   India    IDBI I                     --        25.0    8.44
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    3.19
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --           55.0    6.09
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.63
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0     .20
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CA) 52.0         --      21.99
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --        30.0   20.55
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --        83.0   34.24
520-IN      1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --        91.0      .24
521-IN     1974  ITdia    Rajasthan Dairy              --        27.7   15.60
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --             16.4    6.28
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas         --        35.0    9.95
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0      --      10.03
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6      --       3.88
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.27
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   12.98
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    6.40
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.46
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   22.02
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   54.05
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --          150.0   78.89



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.22
610-IN      1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    13.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    105.52
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                  40.0        --      23.72
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      24.00
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0          --      23.42
1335-IN      1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          --      10.12
680-IN      1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   27.82
682-IN      1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   94.18
685-IN      1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   15.15
687-IN      1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN      1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries         --          4.0      .98
1394-IN      1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.09
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.16
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN      1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      54.84
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   50.03
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.54
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   48.31
1475-IN      1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0      --      35.81
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   93.84
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   50.80
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &.
Research               --          8.0    7.48



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     24.72
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --     93.75
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   99.74
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  178.77
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.91
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   78.99
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.15
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.87
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     59.80
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  141.98
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  193.44
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   79.84
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.69
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   34.07
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.84
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   23.50
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   23.00
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  182.38
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  120.30
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.73
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.68



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India       ARDC III                 --      250.0      230.86
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer        250.0       --       250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                  20.0       20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid               995.3      59.8
Total now outstanding                  1,533.5  7,195.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,515.9  7,195.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           555.6  2,669.9
Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps; Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6        0.4        1.0
1964         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.3       13.1
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian E;plosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.2        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemica:Ls Corporation Ltd.            7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.0       11.5       72.5
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4         -        17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.5        9.1       40.6
Undisbursed                          10.5        1.7       12.2



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1980 totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about
44% over the same period last year.  The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,226
million as of March 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved.  Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date:  July 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultu-ral Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove thetm.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
millica credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, inc:Luding cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption 3f new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields.  In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. in West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying ithe new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitmenit to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding dlisbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding wel'. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating lJttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing datE.



ANNEX III
Page
INDIA
RAJASTHAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Three Years
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
The Public Health Engineering Department, Government
of Rajasthan
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of first mission to consider the project
December 1976; November 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 11, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 16, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) By April 1, 1981, an adequately staffed training
unit would be established within PHED to begin
implementing its training program (para 43);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) A new tariff policy will be introduced by April 1, 1981
based on the recommendations of the tariff study
(para 52);
(c) For urban areas, RWSSB would be required to cover its
operating expenses, including depreciation or debt
service, whichever is the greater, for fiscal year 1981,
and produce a rate of return on net fixed assets of 2%
for FY1982; 3% for FY1983; 5% for FY1984 and 8% for
FY1985 and thereafter (para 53);
(d) RWSSB will introduce a sewerage charge effective
April 1, 1981, which would be applicable to all
premises with a water connection andl within a pre-
scribed distance from a sewer main (para 53);
(e) Local authorities in rural areas would cover operation
and maintenance costs. Each local authority would be
required to contribute the equivalent of 2.5% towards
the construction costs of its scheme (para 55); and
(f)  Concessional credit would be extende!d by RWSSB to the
lower income groups of the community to facilitate
sewer conrnections and to meet basic plumbing installa-
tion costs (para 59).



_ r v  I>J ~~\-   r h,nc  1                                             ! ~N    D   i A \
4S- ". trNue1m-rrCis rv&^          RAJASTI,HAN  WATER SUMPa  AND  'c"E"WEVRAGE PROr;i                                                                  z
tfl l-ala > \t- 9--to1 ' ~~~~~~25  52'  /5 lC0  12' `5  '75 ' 
4            /donr,lvdeAR                        b~~~~~~~~ILOWT-ERZ~               ~                        
\  (   -30                              *  zrer                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~Pro;ect Towns  3t
Arab.n \  |                                            /      ;__  ____  _  r 35; >                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~iG  Othe- Towns
'.e \ vSst~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Domol<( l,c; Headquorters 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;,rc Bo, u\ -- c:                             esi
+            /,<   AzlN~~-    G  A  N A  G  A  R   <)sr_-Bb   re 
>   <eK  irq7D   R;'            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .nbe,Sr,at,o,,al Bounrdres-
,j t / Kf.st 2 f - \ ~~~~~~~~~~Moar Roods 
\   /        ,/?                  ,/  '                     V              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MGopr Rodrs3ds 
%   *            t                    f      .             ,-.    /\, =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Rtver, 
P   >                    gX   8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~/ A N E R          U           i-t JHUNJ' JHUNU" ,7 , / 
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s N   K  A   U ,:'k
\                                2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~J O D H P U R             l *J A 1 P U R                                       a> 
z   . ,--        -. . ,-S--. N       '          ,        -, ~~~~~A J- M. E R       <_       g23Ar  70PU   v'
~~~~_--  _2 YT__ 6'                                                                                                                                           2-
a  t             ~~~~~~~~~B  A  R  M  E _R    '    4 -                      -  .'                   s         z~dd3do
,.- -    >,P  A    ts   B H I L W  t R 4  ~~~~~~~~~B U N D 1i 
'          tE S-J-A  L 0 R"         \     t                       ql(S it2  
s x *1 5<DrchE \ ;\7 D ~~~~~~U D A   fl P U R,,   _JIAWRa
-24'                                                                               ^<f\   ~_ j24'-
DU    f7Av-cPUr iS~. rr                 Cj, 
DljNSVARATUR.....-(,7'~'
Th    s    nap    h   s   oe-o   prepf  r7d  bZ  #te  vs la Sast a sed/f 9X_:DSIWI. t0: tte convr 5, ce S - i ftB7 ) >~~~~~~~~78



