늬


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1046 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               , 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Rajasthan).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), on
the terms and ccnditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that Rajasthan
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Rajasthan shall carry out the Project through
RWSSB and PHED with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be p-.Lovided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist Rajasthan:
(i) in the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the
Project; and
(ii) in the carrying out of the studies included in Part
D of the Project;
Rajasthan shall, in accordance with a timetable agreed from time
to time between Rajasthan and the Association, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Rajasthan shall ensure that:
(a) RWSSB shall at all times have a full complement of its
members; and
(b) PHED shall be adequately staffed by July 1, 1981, in
accordance with an organizational structure satisfactory to
Rajasthan and the Association, and that thereafter any significant
alteration in the said organizational structure shall be made only
after consultation with the Association.
Section 2.05. Rajasthan shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project and, if requested by the Association, shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) Rajasthan undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a


﻿-3-
currency freely usable by Rajasthan to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Rajasthan
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Rajasthan shall through RWSSB furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Rajasthan: (i) shall through RWSSB maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(b) above, Rajasthan shall through RWSSB establish not later than
January 1, 1981, monitoring and reporting systems for the Project.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Rajasthan
and the Association, Rajasthan shall through RWSSB prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Rajasthan and the Association of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) Rajasthan shall through RWSSB, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) Rajasthan shall through RWSSB promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Rajasthan of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Rajasthan shall through RWSSB at all times
manage, operate and maintain its water supply and sewerage plants,
machinery, equipment and property, and promptly make all neces-
sary repairs -and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.10. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of
the Project, Rajasthan shall through RWSSB prepare and furnish to
the Association for its review, not later than March 1 of each
year, the proposed implementation program for the forthcoming
fiscal year.
Section 2.11. Rajasthan shall through RWSSB, with the
assistance of the consultant' referred to in Section 2.02 hereof,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments, a health
education program to achieve health benefits envisaged under the
Project.
Section 2.12. Rajasthan shall (i) through RWSSB prepare
a training program satisfactory to Rajasthan and the Association,
(ii) establish, not later than April 1, 1981, a training unit to
carry out said training program, and (iii) thereafter carry out
the training of PHED's staff in accordance with such program.
Section 2.13. Rajasthan shall, not later than April 1,
1981, prepare and thereafter implement through RWSSB a program
satisfactory to Rajasthan and the Association for financing the
costs of sewer connections, basic plumbing and installation
thereof for lower income groups.
Section 2.14. For the purposes of Part A of the Project,
Rajasthan shall:


﻿- 5 -
(a) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ensure
that each local authority will contribute the equivalent of 2.5%
of the construction costs of its scheme;
(b) introduce water charges sufficient to cover operation
and maintenance costs from April 1, 1981 and thereafter; and
(c) authorize the local authorities to collect standpost
water charges, and in the event of a shortfall in the collection
of such charges, it shall, not later than 120 days after billing,
make funds available to PHED to cover such shortfall.
Section 2.15. Rajasthan shall, not later than April 1, 1981
carry out, or cause to be carried out, a study in respect of its
urban areas, and after consultation with the Association, imple-
ment the findings of such study, on the following: (i) the intro-
duction of a block tariff structure and related tariff levels for
water supply; (ii) the introduction of   a sewerage charge as a
percentage of the water charge to apply to all premises with a
water connection and within a prescribed distance from a sewer
main; and (iii) the extent to which the tariff rates should be
uniform or differ to suit particular local costs and conditions.
Section 2.16. For purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project, Rajasthan shall, not later than April 1, 1981:
(a) ensure that the local authorities will transfer to
Rajasthan the responsibility for the operation of
sewerage and sewage disposal works and all assets
pertaining thereto; and
(b) introduce sewerage charges satisfactory to Rajasthan and
the Association.
Section 2.17. Rajasthan shall ensure that, (i) commencing in
January 1, 1981 and thereafter, local authorities in its urban
areas make timely payments to PHED for water supplied through
standposts, and (ii) in the event any such payments remain
outstanding for more than 120 days after billing, Rajasthan shall
pay such arrears on behalf of the local authority.
Section 2.18. Rajasthan shall ensure supply to RWSSB of an
adequate water allocation from the Jodhpur water supply canal
system (Hemawas-Jawai) for the purpose of enabling RWSSB to meet
its commitments in Jodhpur.


﻿-6-
Section 2.19. Rajasthan lindertakes that:
(a) until April 1, 1986, it shall not, without prior agree-
.uent with the Association, transfer to any local authority the
responsibility for the operation of its urban water supply and
sewerage systems and any assets pertaining thereto; and
(b) thereafter, it shall effect such transfer only under
arrangements designed to ensure sound financial and operational
practices.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Rajasthan shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of its departments and agencies responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Rajasthan shall cause RWSSB and PHED to
establish not later than April 1, 1981 and maintain thereafter
a supplementary commercial accounting system.
(b) Rajasthan shall cause RWSSB and PHED to, beginning with
fiscal year 1981: (i) have their supplementary commercial accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning said accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, Rajasthan shall, before the commencement of each fiscal
year, review and adjust, if necessary, its tariffs for urban water


﻿- 7 -
supply services to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient
to: (i) commencing with f±scal year 1981, meet RWSSB's operating
expenses and the greater of depreciation or debt service require-
ments; and (ii) produce an annual rate of return on the average
value of RWSSB's net fixed assets in operation of at least 2% in
fiscal year 1982, 3% in fiscal year 1983, 5% in fiscal year 1984
and 8% in fiscal year 1985 and thereafter;
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using, as the denominator, the value of the
net fixed assets in operation of RWSSB at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year in
question, and dividing the total by two and, as
the numerator, an amount equal to the net revenues
of RWSSB for that year;
(ii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion of RWSSB" means the gross value of the fixed
assets in operation less accumulated depreciation;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference
between the (A) operating revenues and (B) operat-
ing expenses together with depreciation;
(iv) the term "operating revenues    means all revenues
from the sale of water;
(v) the term "operating expenses    means all costs of
operation of RWSSB including adequate maintenance
and administrative costs but excluding deprecia-
tion; and
(vi) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by
Rajasthan on account of RWSSB, including the funds
to be made available to RWSSB for purposes of
Parts B and C of the Project as if under a loan
repayable over a period of 25 years including a
grace period of 5 years, and bearing interest at
the rate of 6.5% per annum on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding; and
(vii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges on such debt.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. Rajasthan shall through RWSSB and PHED take all
necessary steps to progressively increa3e its level of revenue
collection so as to ensure that, commencing with fiscal year 1982
and all times thereafter, its accounts receivable shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to: (i) with respect to the urban
areas, the billings rendered in 3 consecutive months in such
fiscal year; and (ii) with respect to the rural areas, the
billings rendered in 4 consecutive months in such fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Rajasthan hereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Rajasthan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given


﻿-9-
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, teley or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Rajasthan:
Secretary to the Government
of Rajasthan (PHED)
Sachivalaya
Jaipur, Rajasthan
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Jaipur
Section 5.0'. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may be taken or executed
by the Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department or such
other person or persons as Rajasthan shall designate in writing,
and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
for the Jodhpur raw water main shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Rajasthan shall prepare and for-
ward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Rajasthan shall provide the necessary informa-
tion to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to Ie procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 12 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any othe' goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties
and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar'taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if


﻿- 13 -
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selUzcted.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract
for civil works included under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, Rajasthan may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked to
provide, as part of the data for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by Rajasthan
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by RWSSC, respon-
sive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bid offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works other than those for the Jodphur
raw water main may be let on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided,
however, that civil works estimated to cost less than $30,000
equivalent may be carried out by force account.
2.   All contracts for concrete and stoneware pipes, and contracts
for other equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent
of $150,000 or less each may be let on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and all
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Rajasthan shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text, of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Rajasthan
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Rajasthan and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit


﻿- 15 -
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Rajasthan
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Rajasthan shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Rajasthan
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    A       day of
1980
FOR SECRETARY


