Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18998-KH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FORA
NORTHEAST VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Riel
Riel = US$ 0.00027
US$ 1 = 3700 Riel
FISCAL YEAR
January-December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
AFD           Agence francaise de developpement
APIP          Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project (World Bank/IFAD)
CAAEP         Cambodia-Australia Agricultural Extension Project (Ausaid)
CASD          Community Action for Social Development (UNICEF)
CARERE2    Cambodia Area Rehabilitation & Regeneration Programme (UNDP)
CDC           Commune Development Committee
CMAC          Cambodia Mine Action Centre
IAPSO         Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
LDP           Local Development Process
MAFF         Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MRD           Ministry of Rural Development
MWA          Ministry of Women's Affairs
NPM           National Project Manager
PDP          Provincial Development Programme (GTZ)
PDRD          Provincial Department of Rural Development
PFD           Partners for Development (NGO)
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPIU          Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PRASAC        Programme d'appui au secteur agricole au cambodge (EU)
PRDC          Provincial Rural Development Committee
PSC           Project Steering Committee
RRIP          Rural Roads & Infrastructure Proj ect (ADB)
STF           Seila Task Force
UNCDF        United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UXO           unexploded ordnance
VDC           Village Development Committee
WFP           World Food Programme
Vice President              .     Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Manager             :     Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager              :     Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader            :      Christopher Redfem, EASRD



Kingdom of Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicator .....................................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project .......................................................3
2. Main sector issues and the Government's strategy ........................................................3
3. Sector issues addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................3
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................4
1. Project components ............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................6
4. Characteristics of the Population in the Project Area ....................................................7
5. Development Constraints in the Project Area ............................................................ 8
6. NVDP Poverty Strategy ............................................................8
7. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................9
8. Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................................................                                   10
9. Bank Supervision Strategy ...........................................................                                   11
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                               11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................ 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................... 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................     14
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                       14
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                    14
2. Fiscal Impact ...........................................................                                               14
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                   14
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                               14
5. Social ...........................................................                                                      14
6. Environmental assessment ......................                                                                         15
7. Participatory approach ......................                                                                           15
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                             16
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                                    16
2. Critical risks ......................                                                                                    16
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                                    17



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                      17
2. Effectiveness Conditions .....................                                 17
3.- Financial covenant .....................                                      17
4. Disbursement condition .....................                                   17
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                              17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                             17
Annexes
Annex 1.       Design Summary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.      Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.       Government Counterpart Budget Contribution by Calendar Year
Annex 5.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6.       Documents in Project File
Annex 7.       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 8.       Country at a Glance
Annex 9.       Rural Development and Decentralization in Cambodia
Map            IBRD 27955



Kingdom of Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date:  April 27, 1999                               Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Christopher Redfem
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala       Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: KH-PE-58841  Sector: BD, TR, Al         Program Objective Category: Poverty
Lending Instrument: LIL                             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes  [   No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan       [x] Credit      [] Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDR): 3.6 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency      [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []  Standard Variable  [   Fixed            [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                0.3                 -               0.3
Cofinancier: Japan (PHRD Grant)                            -                 0.7              0.7
IDA                                                       3.0                2.0              5.0
Beneficiaries                                             0.3                 -               0.3
Total        3.6                2.7              6.3
Borrower: Kingdom of Cambodia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Rural Development (MRD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999       2000       2001    2002
Annual    0.5         1.5        2.0    1.0
Cumulative    0.5        2.0        4.0    5.0
Project implementation period: 30 months Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1999
Expected closing date: April 30, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).-
The NVDP's development objective is to introduce decentralized, participatory, poverty-oriented rural
development approaches in some of the poorest areas of Cambodia and to gain the experience in
managing such programs needed by the Government for formulating and carrying out a cohesive national
strategy for rural development in the post-2001 period.
Critical performance indicators would be: (a) as a result of the project, the Government would adopt more
decentralized, participatory and sustainable rural development strategies for its public investment and
administrative reform programs; (b) Government capacity to implement such strategies would improve;
and (c) the rural economy in the project target areas would improve.
By the end of the project (LIL) in October 2001, the capacity of the Provincial Departments of Rural
Development (PDRD) in the four provinces concerned would have been built up to the point where they
could help local communities to plan and manage small rural development sub-projects. They would have
developed effective working links with existing Provincial Rural Development Committees (PRDC) and
with Commune Development Committees (CDC), expected to take on an increased local government role
after communal elections planned for late- 1999. Working systems and trained personnel for participatory
rural appraisal (PRA) would have been put in place. The project would have made a start in providing
people in the area with community investments needed to improve their incomes; and, through their
participation in village development committees (VDC), the poorest households would have an
opportunity to make their needs known. Opportunities would be created for local NGO and contractors to
develop activities in the area. The project would help project staff to gain management experience and to
prepare a plan for a follow-up project in the Northeast.
B: Strategic Context
Project Rationale
Cambodia has had a number of rural development projects during the post-conflict reconciliation and
reconstruction period beginning in 1992, which have had a positive but still limited impact; and a top
priority of the national development strategy is to spread the benefits of development more widely to
rural areas, where 90% of Cambodia's poor households live.
To date, virtually all rural development projects in Cambodia have been designed, financed and
implemented by donors, international agencies or non-governmental organizations:l the Government of
Cambodia and its responsible line agencies has so far had very little on-the-ground experience of
planning, managing and coordinating a rural development project. Preparation of the NVDP has drawn
extensively on the experience of these other projects and in the process has helped the MRD to get a
better knowledge of them and of Bank procedures;2 implementing the NVDP will permit MRD and
Government staff in the provinces to acquire and internalize experience of project management and
evaluation. The project would include the hiring of international consultants to advise and train in key
areas where experience is lacking but Cambodian staff would throughout be responsible for managing the
project. Pre-project staff selection and training has commenced.
I   Section D lists some larger programs funded by donors and international agencies.
2   Especially through managing PHRD grant funds for project preparation.



Page 3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16255-KH   Date of latest CAS discussion: February 20, 1997
The central objective of the CAS for Cambodia is poverty reduction. The specific goals of the CAS
supported by the project are:
* Enhancing Rural Development and Natural Resource Management;
* Improving Human Resources and Reducing Poverty; and
*  Strengthening Institutional Capacity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
Reflecting the country's still-ongoing emergence from prolonged civil war and destruction of social
capital, the main challenge for Cambodia's economic and social reconstruction is poverty reduction - the
Government has not yet found the means to achieve a significant improvement of economic and social
well-being for the majority of the rural population, which has suffered great deprivation and remains
severely impoverished.
The Government's strategy for eliminating poverty is becoming more clearly formulated but suffers from
severe implementation constraints and human resource limitations. Approaches to rural development
have tended to be centralized and top-down, partly reflecting a persistence of attitudes from earlier
periods. Local government has been largely neglected in the reconstruction process and efforts to
establish a centralized public finance system have created an added constraint. In order to achieve better
results, the Government aims to decentralize responsibilities for rural development closer to the villages,
in order to secure their commitment and active involvement. Local government presently lacks the
resources to do much without assistance from NGOs and other development organizations.
After assuring basic security, the next major tasks are to improve communications, provide basic needs of
access to food, water and health services, and to demonstrate to villagers ways in which they can improve
their own livelihoods and connect them with potential sources of technical and financial assistance. The
IDA/IFAD Agriculture Productivity Improvement Project (APIP) and others such as the Ausaid-funded
agricultural extension project provide assistance for improvement of technical services for smallholder
farmers. Another important step is to prepare a realistic plan for the development of rural financial
services, which is being done with assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Agence
francaise de developpement (AFD).
Sectoral issues are discussed in the Bank's 1996 Cambodia country report and Agriculture Sector
Memorandum (May 1997), as well as in studies done by other agencies, some of which are referred to in
section D.3.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses the following sector issues:
(a) institutional: the project will help to demonstrate the feasibility of a significantly decentralized
approach to the management of rural development in some of the poorest and most isolated parts of
Cambodia; in so doing, it will also help to clarify and develop the role of the Ministry of Rifral
Development (MRD), more as a strategist and facilitator rather than a direct deliverer of rural



Page 4
development services. In the longer term, MRD could take on a larger responsibility for promoting the
development of local government in rural Cambodia;
(b) social: for a country which has undergone immeasurable damage to its social institutions from three
decades of civil conflict, there is a surprising dearth of recent sociological analysis of rural Cambodia.
The project would provide an important test of whether rural Cambodian communities are willing and
able to reorganize themselves to undertake development activities for communal purposes;
(c) economic: since most of the target villages and communes involved are geographically isolated and
very poor, and have received little or no development assistance for 30 years, there is a lack of systematic
knowledge of development constraints in the area. By supporting and monitoring a range of demand-
driven subprojects the project will obtain information needed to determine clearer priorities for future
investment in the economy of the area.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed discussion and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category     Cost incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$m)              (US$m)   financing
Participatory Planning and                       4.3       68 %      3.3       66 %
Investment
Institutional Strengthening and                  2.0       32 %       1.7      34 %
Project Management                                       I       I      _ I
Total         6.3       100 %     5.0       100 %
The NVDP's development objective is to introduce decentralized, participatory, poverty-oriented rural
development approaches in some of the poorest areas of Cambodia and to gain the experience in
managing such programs needed by the Government for formulating and carrying out a cohesive national
strategy for rural development in the post-2001 period.
Project Outputs. In line with the project's development objective, and learning and innovation format, the
project aims at producing two main outputs:
A.    Developing and testing a participatory system for identifying, financing, constructing and
maintaining investment subprojects aimed at raising the livelihoods of poor rural households, with the
Government role mainly as "strategist", and partner agencies (NGO, private contractors, local
associations) as principal direct service providers; and
B.    Improving the capacities of local institutions, from VDC in the target villages, to PRDC at the
provincial and MRD at the national levels, to play their parts in supporting participatory, decentralized
rural development programs.
Project Components. The proposed project has two main components, corresponding to the Project
Outputs described above:
* Participatory Planning and Investment (US$4.3 million); and
*  Institutional Strengthening and Project Management (US$2.0 million).



Page 5
(a) Participatory Planning and Investment. Project investment activities would be based on and support
development of a participatory planning system, starting at the village level with the formation ofVillage
Development Committees (VDC) and intended to reach progressively upward to correspond with
different levels of local government, referred to as the Local Development Process (LDP). To start the
LDP in the project area, the project would finance the costs of preparing and carrying out participatory
rural appraisals (PRA) in about 120 villages in 27 target communes, selected on the basis of criteria set
out in the PRA Implementation Guide (PRAIG) reviewed during appraisal. The LDP would inter alia
assist VDC to determine a community's development priorities and identify suitable subprojects for
financing under the project.
The project would provide financing on a grant basis to VDC in target communes in the project area for
the construction of investment subprojects (total cost US$3.0 million) aimed at generally raising the
livelihoods and well-being of the concerned communities and approved by the respective Provincial
Rural Development Committee (PRDC), on the basis of proposals screened and forwarded by the
Provincial Project Imp,lementation Unit (PPIU).
Investment subprojects would mostly be for rehabilitation or improvement of the physical infrastructure
directly supporting the economic activities of a community, such as a dike for irrigation and water
control, a bridge or track for easing farm-village-market transport constraints ', or digging of ponds and
wells for village water supply. Beneficiary communities would normally be expected to contribute about
20% 4 of estimated construction cost of subprojects, either in the form of labor, materials or financing,
and would sign an agreement providing for subproject operation and maintenance. The subproject menu
would deliberately be kept flexible in order to gain maximum valid information about local development
constraints and capacities to overcome them. Community asset subprojects, such as village training and
literacy centers, cultural heritage conservation and eco-tourism projects, could be considered. However,
social sector projects (health, education) would not normally be financed as these are provided through
other sources such as UNICEF and the Social Fund.
Details of the types of subproject eligible for financing will be included in a Project Operations Manualto
be submitted to IDA for approv  before disbursement of funds for subprojects can begin.
To assist the PIU in setting up the project's Local Development Process, training staff, establishing
systems for financing and monitoring of subprojects, and evaluating project results, the proposed Credit
would finance about 5 staff-years of TA (Institutional Development Advisor, Financial Advisor, and
short-term consultants, see Annex 4, Table Al), estimated cost US$0.7 million. The Institutional
Development Advisor would be the chief technical advisor for the Project, with the prime responsibility
of helping the Government to draw the appropriate institutional and other lessons from implementation of
this and other rural development projects for its future investment programs and national strategy for
rural development in the post-project period. Detailed terms of reference for all project advisory positions
are contained in the Borrower's PIP.
3The Project does not envisage the financing of tertiary road improvements, since the technical and financial
resources needed to address these needs in the area would greatly exceed those available under this project.
MRD is currently implementing a national program for Rural Roads and Infrastructure Improvement (RRIP)
with financial assistance from the ADB in conjunction with ILO.
4There will be flexibility to vary this percentage according to the type of project and specific circumstances; the
20% figure is an agreed overall guideline.



Page 6
To help set up and operate the four PPIU, a bilateral Grant from Japan of US$0.7 million would finance
approximately 8 staff-years of TA in the fields of: participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and community
development methods suitable for post-conflict situations; subproject preparation, appraisal, financing
and contracting; and small rural works design and construction, estimated cost US$0.7 million.
The terms of reference and contracts for individual consultant services would be approved by IDA.
(b) Institutional Strengthening and Project Management The Project would provide resources to help
strengthen the Borrower's institutions at national, provincial and lower (district/commune/village) levels,
sufficient to carry out the activities described above and more generally to achieve the Project's
development objective. Specifically, the Project would provide for:
(i) fixed-price contracts with consulting firms (estimated cost US$0.8 million, see Annex 4, Table
Al) to assist MRD in:
* establishing a management information system (MIS) for the project;
* conducting participatory evaluation studies of project performance and impact;
* preparing feasibility studies for a follow-on project;
* providing review where necessary of subproject design and supervision of construction;
* carrying out independent annual financial audits; and
* provision of training courses.
The terms of reference and contracts for consulting firm services would be approved by IDA.
(ii) rehabilitation of Government offices needed for implementing the Project (US$0.2 million);
(iii) purchase of vehicles, a diesel-powered boat and office/communications equipment needed for the
operation of the Project (US$0.7 million); and
(iv) incremental project operating expenditures (US$0.2 million) and salaries for local project staff
hired on contract (US$0.2 million). IDA funds would not be used for paying government staff
salaries, which are not included in the cost of the project.
Implementation Period. The project would be implemented starting in mid-1999 and completed by
October 31, 2001. Final disbursements would be made by April 30, 2002.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is designed to introduce decentralized and participatory approaches to the management of
rural development in the Northeast of Cambodia, to monitor and evaluate that experience, and thus to
assist in developing the roles and capacities of MRD, local government and civil society to promote
equitable and sustainable development in the project area. The project implementation plan is built up in
phases and provides for flexibility and mid-course adjustment, in the light of experience gained and the
findings of independent evaluations.
3. Benefits and target population:
The 12 selected districts currently have no major rural development program. The project would make
grant funds available to a sample of local communities for improving the social, economic and physical



Page 7
infrastructure needed to support an improvement in incomes. Most importantly, the project will help to
acquire local knowledge and institutional experience that could lead to a well-prepared follow-up project
having the following results:
Economic Benefits:
Improved economic conditions for poor rural households as a result of improved market access
and upgraded infrastructure for agricultural production (e.g. rehabilitation of village tracks, rural
roads, bridges and small scale irrigation works);
Social Benefits:
Through exposure to participatory approaches to rural development, people living in the project
area will gain confidence in the prospects for an improvement of their livelihoods;
Other Benefits:
Institution building and the promotion of public administration decentralization; the private sector
and NGOs may find increasing opportunities to develop activities in the area; and
4. Characteristics of the Population in the Project Area
The social assessment carried out during project preparation studied the provinces of Kompong Cham
(population 919,000), Kompong Thom (population 305,000), Kratie (population 198,000), and Stung
Treng (64,000). The total project area has a population of about 1.5 million people. The average
household is 5.6 persons, and the average number of households per village is 132, or about 740 persons.
The sex ratio of the population is 91.7, indicating that there are only 91.7 males per 100 females. These
indicators are generally consistent with national level. Female-headed households are as common as
elsewhere in Cambodia. About 20% of household heads in the project area are women.
The project area and population is characterized by diversity rather than homogeneity, by variation rather
than uniformity, both in livelihoods and in other ways of life. The SA classified the project area into five
ecozones: (i) Mekong Riverside, (ii) Other Riverside, (iii) Lowland Plains, (iv) Lowland-Upland
interface, and (v) Uplands. Patterns of livelihood were analyzed in the context of each ecozone.
Livelihood for households was operationally defined in terms of the resources from which they were
derived, viz: (i) farming, (ii) utilization of common property resources, (iii) wage labor, (iv) micro-
enterprise, and (v) loans from others. Variation by ecozone is significant:
*  Seasonal wage labor contributes significantly for between one-fourth to one-third of households in
most ecozones, except for the Mekong riverside, where wage labor is insignificant;
*  One fourth to one third of households in most ecozones are indebted to an amount representing more
that three months expenditures; and
*  Significant health variation exists between communes in all ecozones, for reasons not identified.
Over the four provinces, two-thirds of households are classified as 'poor' (10%) or 'very poor' (54%), on
the basis of nutrition, migration and indebtedness indicators. In Kratie, more than 40% of households are
'very poor', representing half of all very poor villages in the project area. In Kampong Cham, 57% of
households are 'poor' and landlessness was reported as a factor.



Page 8
5. Development Constraints in the Project Area
Some of the main economic development constraints of the area are considered to be:
a) lack of access to markets, information and public services: the area includes some 3000 km of rural
roads and tracks, and over 1000 bridges, most of which are not suitable for motor vehicles as they
have been destroyed in the war or simply not maintained for the past 30 years. About 80 percent of
the population in the area live close to the Mekong and other rivers, which assure passage through
much of the year for transport into and within the region;
b) lack of water in the dry season for human and livestock needs, irrigation of vegetable plots and for
fishing, and also frequent flooding in the wet season;
c) lack of know-how, inputs and credit for increasing agricultural production, including rice and other
annual crops, animal production and low-intensity fish rearing;
d) landmines/UXO: in certain localities in the area (e.g. Snoul) land cannot safely be accessed or
developed because of danger of landmines or unexploded ordnance, since the Northeast has not
generally been a top priority area for the Cambodia Mine Action Centre (CMAC) and other demining
agencies;
e) lack of know-how, inputs and credit for starting rural enterprises (e.g., building and construction,
transport, motorcycle repair shops, ox-cart manufacture, small sawmills and wood-based industry,
fishing gear manufacture/repair, battery charging, food preparation and retailing, other retail
services); and
f) weakness of institutions from provincial down to village levels to relate rural development initiatives
to local needs and opportunities and to secure local participation in the undertaking of community-
level investments.
6. NVDP Poverty Strategy
NVDP comprises a targeted poverty reduction strategy based upon multi-level prior screening, data
collection and consultation processes, viz:
*  Selection of four provinces in the Northeast as the project area, one of the poorest regions of the
country as a result of resource-endowment and historical factors;
*  Selection of 12 target Districts within the area, based upon consultations with locally-knowledgeable
persons and data reviews by the preparation team in order to obtain a cross-section of socio-economic
characteristics within an overall objective of favoring inclusion of poorer and unassisted districts; for
this reason,
*  Establishment of baseline data on socio-economic and demographic characteristics of all known
villages in the project area, permitting their classification into broad poverty bands and resource-
based (agro-ecological) livelihood categories;
*  Carrying out of commune-level profiles to permit selection of about 30 target communes and about
120 villages to serve as the primary focus of activity under the project through the LDP. These



Page 9
comprise villages categorized as well-off, poor and very poor; and within these villages there is
always a variation of household situations but generally not very wide.
NVDP will aim to target and monitor its poverty reduction impact at the level of the community, but not
to the individual household level. Few if any of the larger rural development programs in Cambodia have
announced more explicit poverty reduction strategies than this. Some smaller NGOs have had some
success in raising incomes of the very poorest households but this is difficult to replicate and scale up. In
general, experience in Cambodia shows that it is difficult to help the very poorest of the poor except
through food for work, emergency health and other direct relief measures. NVDP will probably be the
first larger scale rural development program in Cambodia to have developed a baseline data set and a
monitoring and evaluation system before disbursing funds for subprojects. This will significantly improve
the poverty impact of the project and enrich the knowledge base on effective rural poverty reduction
strategies.
7. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Management. Overall management of the Project will be under the responsibility of a five-person
Project Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the MRD State Secretary and supported by an Executive
Secretary. Staffing, policy matters, coordination with other Ministries and donors, receiving progress
reports and, above all, ensuring that the Project remains on course toward its overall objectives, will be
the main tasks of the PSC. For this reason, it will need to be a proactive not passive body. Preparation,
pretesting and coordination of the Local Development Process, monitoring of subprojects, will be the
responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established by MRD, headed by aNational
Project Manager (NPM) and situated in the project area's main town, Kompong Cham, about two hours
by road from Phnom Penh with adequate housing, banking and communication facilities. Forming and
training the LDP core team of facilitators and project promoters will be the first and main task of the PIU;
later, it will be the management and monitoring of the PPIUs and the growing portfolio of subprojects.
All PIll positions other than support staff will be filled on the basis of competitive selection and
contractual employment. Small Provincial Project Implementation Units (PPIUs), situated physically
within the PDRD but including staff drawn from outside the PDRD, will be established in each project
province, starting in PY2, under the authority of the existing Provincial Rural Development Committee,
chaired by the provincial Governor. The PPIUs would eventually take over the functions initially
assumed by the PIU: but it would be determined later on how soon this decentralization could and should
take place.
The PIU will be responsible for (i) project planning and coordination the central level and coordination of
activities being carried out by participating provinces; (ii) the production and updating of the project
operational manual and technical guidelines; (iii) all project-wide aspects of procurement and
disbursement, and the implementation of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iv) preparation of
implementation reports and annual/semi-annual workplans; and (v) design of training programs for MRD
and provincial staff.
The PPIUs will be responsible for the day to day implementation and oversight of the establishment of
Village and Commune Development Committees (VDC/CDC), PRA planning activities, subproject
development, and provincial training and monitoring activities. Sub-projects will mainly be implemented
by VDC/CDC with assistance from local government staff and project partners. The role to be played by
grassroots village leaders (formal and informal) in implementation will be important, and the support of
existing social organizations in the area, such as local NGOs and pagoda committees, will be enlistedby
the project



Page 10
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Financial records would be kept for all
project-related expenditures using generally accepted accounting principles. A Special Account would be
established under the project at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) and would be managed by MRD.
The project accounts established and maintained by MRD with assistance of a financial advisor would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and audit reports would be forwarded to IDA
within six months of the end of the financial year. The Project Steering Committee would be responsible
for ensuring that financial management, reporting and auditing were properly carried out by PIU and the
PPITUs.
The project's flow of funds system would be elaborated progressively, reflecting the types of activities
that the project will be undertaking and the capacities of the implementing agency as well as of the local
government authorities in the four provinces.
*  Under Phase 1 of NVDP (April-December 1999) where activities primarily involve the formation and
training of the LDP core team, the normal financial flow of funds would be adopted, with a Special
Account managed by the implementing entity (MRD). By the end of Phase 1, the financial system
would be reviewed with the help of the Financial Advisor and refined as necessary to permit
implementation of the next phase;
*  In Phase 2, which involves formation of project implementation units (PPIU) in the provinces and
initiation of subprojects, the financial system will be elaborated so as to permit a prudent delegation
of financial responsibilities to local government levels as part of the Local Development Process, and
to develop capacity of the PPIUs to provide necessary technical and financial support to the PRDC,
CDC and VDC.
* In Phase 3, implementation of subprojects would continue with further refinement of the
financial system and LDP process, in light of the evaluation carried out at end of Phase 2.
8. Monitoring and Evaluation.
Critical indicators of success would be:
(a) as a result of the project, the Government would adopt more decentralized, participatory and
sustainable rural development strategies for its public investment and administrative reform
programs;
(b Government capacity to implement such strategies would improve; and
(c) the rural economy in the project area would improve.
In line with its objectives, the outputs of the project essentially relate to strengthened institutions and
processes. The LIL aims to find out what kind of community development approaches and local planning
and investment processes will work well under the difficult initial conditions encountered in the northeast
of Cambodia. So, most of the relevant key indicators will be about how well these local institutions and
processes are working, from the point of view particularly of the participants. For example, how long it
takes from the time a VDC applies for a subproject to when it gets approved (or rejected); and indicators
of the performance and rectitude of the financial management system. However, any outcome indicators



Page 11
available during the implementation period about the quality of the project's physical outputs
(subprojects) and of their likely sustainability would also be used.
The project's monitoring system would established within the PIU, with the help of a short-term
consultant, during the project's start-up phase in 1999, before subprojects are approved for funding.
Some of its inputs would come from the financial management system also to be developed during Phase
1. The M&E consultant would be expected to return for short-term missions throughout the remainder of
the project to ensure that the monitoring system functioned satisfactorily and to assist in the analysis and
reporting of its results. These would be included in the project's quarterly progress reports.
Because of its piloting and learning objectives, the project would invest substantially in at least two
independent evaluations of its progress and results, toward the end of each of its first two implementation
phases, as described in the PIP, and a completion report toward the end of the third phase. These
evaluations would be carried out on contract by an independent organization but include MRD staff on
the team for learning and familiarization purposes. The evaluations would feed in turn into the project
completion report and the feasibility study for a follow-on project. Including the cost of independent
audits and consultant services for subproject design and contract supervision, the project would devote
about 10% of its total resources to monitoring and evaluation.
9. Bank Supervision Strategy
The learning, capacity-building and institutional objectives of the Project are important for developing
Cambodia's post-2001 rural development framework, and the Government will count on continuing
support for this from the Bank through its regular supervision missions and non-lending assistance. In
addition, the implementing agency lacks experience with Bank projects. Above-average intensity of
supervision is therefore recommended, particularly during the start-up period and at the time of mid-term
evaluation. The budget implications for the Bank's operational Units concerned should be taken into
account accordingly.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Consideration was given to adopting the CARERE/Seila Local Planning Process and extending it to the
Northeast but it was felt to be too demanding for the initial conditions of this area (where, unlike the
Northwest of Cambodia, there are very few IOs and NGOs operating) and too management-intensive for
MRD and the provincial services to handle immediately (a fuller analysis of this strategic choice is given
in Annex 9: Rural Development and Decentralization in Cambodia).
The project was originally envisaged as a much larger rural development program covering five northeast
provinces over a period of six years. Because of a lack of implementation capacity in the area and of
institutional experience in MRD in managing rural development programs, it was agreed with
Government in early 1998 that a LIL, which could prepare for a larger-scale rural development program
in the future, was a much better approach.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                     Emergency
Rehabilitation Project      S             MS
Agriculture Productivity    S              S
Improvement (APIP)
Social Fund (SFKC)         HS              S
Other development agencies        Cambodia Area
Rehabilitation and
Regeneration Program 2
(CARERE2) (UNDP)
PRASAC (EU);
CAAEP Agricultural
Extension Project
(Ausaid)
Rural Roads &
Infrastructure Project
(ADB)
Kompong Thom PDP
(GTZ);
Northeast Community
Development (Partners
for Development NGO);
Community and Social
Development Program
=_________________________        (UNICEF).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), MS (Marginally Satisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Significant lessons have been learned from in-country experience in project design and implementation.
Among the most salient are:
* delay in initial implementation reflecting unfamiliarity with project management and external
financing agency procedures is a risk but can be overcome by providing experienced short-term TA
to assist in project start-up;
*  without clear communication and up-front agreements for local participation in operation and
maintenance, subprojects may not be sustainable;
*  without explicit poverty, gender and participation strategies, rural development projects may lose
sight of initial goals for reaching the poor, women and other vulnerable groups;
*  since rural credit schemes have mainly benefited relatively richer communities and households, and it
is difficult to find ways to make the very poorest creditworthy, poverty-oriented projects generally
need to offer grant assistance, while helping stronger communities to become viable customers for
rural credit financing (MRD/CDRI studies);



Page 13
however, even in the poorest areas of Cambodia it has been found that a substantial beneficiary
contribution to construction and maintenance costs is feasible, so long as there is a sense of
ownership of the project. Some poverty-oriented NGOs find that as much as 50% beneficiary
contribution to cost of community infrastructure projects may be provided in some circumstances;
project preparation and review has benefited from close collaboration with the Bank's Post-Conflict
Unit, and with agencies such as CARERE2 working in Cambodia's post-conflict reconciliation areas,
with which operational partnerships have been developed, leading to recent approval of a PCF Grant
to CARERE for rural reconciliation activities in the Northwest of Cambodia. Design lessons from
LILs in other post-conflict countries such as Angola and Rwanda, such as the importance of
empowering local-level institutions in the planning and implementation of investment sub-projects,
have been taken account of and incorporated to the extent considered applicable to the Cambodian
situation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  Both at central level (Ministry of Economy & Finance (MEF) and MRD) and in the provinces
concerned, the Government has shown strong support for the project, because development activities
in the area are so far very limited and because this would be the first participatory rural development
project that the Government has directly managed itself;
-  a NGO project for village water, sanitation and hygiene improvement in the Northeast has
demonstrated the commitment on the part of local communities to a participatory approach, including
willingness to contribute to the cost of subproject construction and operation;
* the Government established in late 1997 an inter-Ministerial body known as the Seila Task Force
(STF), chaired by the MEF and comprising representatives of the Ministries of Interior, Planning,
Agriculture, Rural Development and Women's Affairs, to oversee the rural development
decentralization initiative in five provinces piloted by the Seila/CARERE2 program;
e the Government decided in January 1999 to simplify the Rural Development Structure first
introduced in 1995, dropping the District Development Committee layer of the structure and making
the PDRD the principal executive body serving the PDRC (as envisaged under the NVDP);
*  by decision of the Minister of Rural Development in January 1999, an Advisory Board for Rural
Development was created, to provide a regular forum for exchanges of experience between different
programs and approaches for rural development (as earlier recommended during NVDP preparation);
*  legislation approved in 1998 permits the establishment of provincial budgets and retention by
provinces of certain tax revenues for approved development and maintenance purposes; the national
budget for 1999 includes provision for notional block grants to support approved provincial budgets;
*  a Decree issued in January 1999 legally establishes a Rural Road Maintenance Fund;
*  the Government paper presented to the February 1999 Consultative Group gives renewed priority to
reducing rural poverty and improving food security for the poor; and
*  preparations are underway to hold, for the first time, commune authority elections in late-1999.
Elected government at this level should greatly facilitate local participation in development activities,
as well as more generally promote responsiveness and accountability in local government.



Page 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* The Bank brings wide experience in the design and financing of decentralized rural investment fund-
type projects, especially from Latin America and Africa, which has been used in the design of this
project;
* Government values the Bank's support for implementation and financial monitoring provided
through its regular supervision missions;
* Cambodia expects to require greatly increased multilateral loan financing for its rural development
programs in the future, once the current generation of grant-funded projects like CARERE2 (UNDP,
bilateral donors) and PRASAC (European Union) are completed: the NVDP is a logical way to
prepare for this expected growth in the program.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic:
Given the learning and evaluation objectives of the project, ex-ante economic analysis is not feasible but
the project MIS would acquire cost and benefit data from the implementation and evaluation of first
round investment subprojects, and use simplified methods of costibenefit or cost/effectiveness analysis to
evaluate subprojects expost.
2. Fiscal impact:
The incremental amount to be financed by Government is very small (US$0.3 million) during the
implementation period, and only about $0.2 million/year thereafter in recurrent costs. As a requirement
of project financing, each subproject proposal would include a plan for post-construction operation and
maintenance by the beneficiary community.
3. Technical:
Technical studies providing implementation guidelines for various types of potential subprojects have
been initiated and would be included in the Operations Manual, including:
* village water supply and sanitation;
* village tracks and small bridges;
* small-scale irrigation and water control;
* village literacy centers; etc.
4. Institutional:
A study has been carried out by EU on the institutional strengthening and training needs of MRD
generally, based partly on which a training plan has been prepared and some training assisted with
financing under the PHRD preparation grant.
5. Social:
During project preparation a Social Assessment (SA) was carried out using secondary data. The SA
provides a baseline against which to measure progress of the project in project villages. On the basis of a
variety of data sources, some of which5 used innovative approaches to data collection, the SA classifies
all 2,000 villages within the project area according to livelihood patterns and poverty levels and ranking.
5Such as the poverty mapping exercise carried out by the World Food Programme (WFP).



Page 15
These findings form the basis for the project strategy for poverty targeting and developing approaches for
improvement in the various livelihood patterns.
In many ways rural Cambodia has few village institutions of hereditary and traditional character, due to
the last decades of uprooting and turmoil. The traditional livelihood pattern along the Mekong River is
also characterized by a relative independence of individual households from one another, based as it is on
individual garden (chamcar) cultivation, rather than irrigation systems which require inter-household
cooperation. But there is nevertheless still generally a strong sense of belonging to a particular village, so
that VDC can be a viable instrument for deciding on investments and activities of a communal nature.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [ ] A   [ ] B    [x] C
The proposed project presents no environmental or resettlement issues falling under the Bank's policies
and is expected to contribute to improved environmental planning at local levels. Through its PRA and
community development approach the project will test methods for including environmental, natural
resource and simple land use planning at the community level. Village investments will involve small
scale subprojects aimed at improving the livelihoods of participating resource-poor communities.
Participatory village planning will take into account environmental aspects during the formulation of
community plans and proposals for subprojects. The subproject menu would deliberately be kept flexible
but would include rehabilitation of farm access tracks, small bridges, wells for village water supply, and
small scale irrigation and drainage works. Construction of village infrastructure will so far as possible
observe practices to minimize construction impacts. This will be reviewed periodically by the proposed
subproject monitoring system. In the event that any subproject involved involuntary resettlement, a
satisfactory resettlement action plan would need to be prepared and submitted for IDA's prior review.
The Project Operations Manual would need to include a statement of the Government's policy for the
compensation and rehabilitation of such affected persons.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
all villages participating in the project would first identify their livelihood constraints and
development priorities through a PRA, a critical step not carried out under some rural development
projects in Cambodia;
b. Other key stakeholders:
the support and active participation of central government, provincial governors, provincial line
agencies, local government and local NGO leaders, women's associations, staff of other
development projects, and village bodies such as abbots, monks and members of pagoda
committees has already been solicited through pre-project meetings and workshops held in the
project area.



Page 16
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the approaches to be tried under the LIL cannot be assured ex ante, but the LIL
format itself encourages sustainability by building in incentives for maximizing local involvement and for
learning from the results. The prospects for sustainability are greatly enhanced by agreed approaches to:
*  up-front participation of communities through the LDP;
*  required contribution of beneficiaries to sub-project construction cost;
*  beneficiaries' agreement to take care of sub-project operation and maintenance; and
*  intensive built-in monitoring and independent evaluations.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
1. Government does not demonstrate firm enough      M         Government policy statements and
commitment to participatory approach.                     actions indicate an increased
understanding and commitment.
2. Subprojects suffer excessively from deficient              Agreements required for all subprojects
operation and maintenance attention.             S        that VDC/CDC assumes full
responsibility for operation and
maintenance.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. PRA process is considered too complex and        M         Relevant PRA guidelines are prepared
project staff revert to top-down modes of                 and an intensive PRA training and
dealing with the local communities.                       pretesting program for LDP core team
is planned.
2. VDCs do not understand rationale for their       M         Project will develop a clear
expected contributions toward cost of                     communications and promotion
subprojects; so uptake of sub-projects is slower          strategy to inform, involve and advise
than expected.                                            VDCs through the LDP.
3. Subprojects not selected in accordance with      M         Project Operations Manual includes
sound technical and economic criteria.                    technical guidelines for selection of
subprojects and their implementation.
4. Subprojects designed or realized inefficiently.  M         Provision made for hiring professional
services if needed to strengthen
subproject design and supervise
contracts (especially of larger
subprojects).
Overall Risk Rating                                 M        I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects have surfaced to date but it is possible that once the project gets underway there
may be resistance from entrenched stakeholders (e.g. local government office-holders) to the idea of
giving up power of resource allocation to elected bodies such as commune authorities, after elections
planned for late-1999.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions: establishment of PSC and PIU; appointment of National Project Manager
with qualifications satisfactory to IDA; establishment of an adequate financial management and
accounting system; selection of auditors; and recruitment of a qualified Project Accounts Officer.
2. Financial covenant: to carry out an agreed, time-bound action plan for financial management of the
project;
3. Disbursement condition: prior to disbursement of the Credit against grants for investment subprojects
IDA would receive for comments and approve a draft Project Operations Manual which would include a
satisfactory financial management plan for disbursement of grants; establishment of PPIUJ and
appointrnent of PPM.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The revised Project Implementation Plan prepared by MRD has been appraised and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality. Copies are available on request.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Christophe idfere
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Countg   :Noziweala



Page 18
Annex 1
Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Sunmmary            Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Promote rural development and     Rural economy begins to improve,   1.  Govemment national   Government commitment to
poverty reduction, as key elements of  rural household incomes increase  income estimates    participatory rural
a national development strategy, and   and numbers living in absolute  (GDP/industrial       development programs
clarify the role of the Ministry of  poverty fall.                     origin)               results in significant
Rural Development.                                                 2.  National Socio-       reduction in poverty and
Economic Survey.     improvement in the national
economy.
Prepare a larger follow-on project  Government internalizes lessons
extending the lessons leamed under   learned from the LIL and prepares a
the LIL more widely in the Northeast  follow-on rural development project
and elsewhere.                    or program.
Project Development Objective                                                                (Dev. Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Introduce decentralized, participatory,  1.  Govemment transfers some  1.  National budget for  Successful implementation
poverty-oriented rural development    decision making and resource     provinces and         of project reinforces support
approaches in some of the poorest     allocation responsibilities to   communes              for participatory rural
areas of Cambodia and gain the        local govemments.            2.  Donor assistance for    development programs.
experience in managing such       2.  NVDP target communes and         decentralized activities
programs needed by the Govemment      villages selected according to   in provinces and
for formulating and carrying out a    agreed poverty criteria.         communes
cohesive national strategy for rural                               3.  NVDP baseline social
development in the post-2001 period.                                   assessment
Locally knowledgeable
persons (monks, teachers,
officials)
Project Outputs                                                                              (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1.  Develop and test a participatory   1.  PIU develops and pretests LDP   1.  PIU quarterly reports.   1.  Government maintains
system for identifying,          in selected villages and      2.  MRD evaluation            its commitment to
financing, constructing and       communes.                        reports.                  participatory approach.
maintaining productive rural  2.  PIU introduces decentralized    3.  Feedback reports on  2.  Government will
investment subprojects, with      procurement and financing        LDP process.              allocate sufficient
Government as strategist and      procedures for subprojects.  4.  Operations Manual on      budget resources for
partner agencies (NGOs, private  3.  Villages and communes in      procurement and           project maintenance.
contractors) as direct service    target districts use LDP for     financial procedures.
providers.                        planning and implementing
subprojects.
4.  Women participate in
VDC/CDC.



Page 19
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                      Risks
....................................................................... ..EF ~ i f i...................   .....................  . ....................................
2.  Develop the capacities of local    1.  Program for LDP training          1.  PIU training plan.
institutions, from VDC up to           workshops scheduled and          2.  PIU/PPIU quarterly
national MRD, to play their part       organized.                            reports.
in planning and managing rural    2.  VDC/CDC elected and               3.  Mid-term evaluation
development programs.                  recognized by PRDC..                  (external evaluation)
3.  VDC/CDC in target communes            reports.
meet for matters other than      4.  Maintenance plans and
NVDP subprojects.                     contracts for all
4.  PRDC formed and functioning           subprojects.
in all four target provinces.
5.  PPIU formed and managing the
LDP process in all four target
provinces..
6.  MRD coordinating and
evaluating the project.
Project Components                                                                                         (Components to Outputs)
I.   Participatory Planning and        1.  PRA process completed in 80%    1.  PIU/PPIU quarterly          I .  PRA guidelines are
Subproject Investments                 of project villages                   reports                       relevant to the situation
2.  Approved subprojects under        2.  Mid-term  evaluation          and accepted by the
implementation in 80% of              reports                       project staff and
target villages.                                                    villagers.
3.  Maintenance plans/contracts                                    2.  VDCs willing and
for all approved subprojects                                        capable of proposing
4.  Workshops with local                                                suitable subprojects.
development partners                                           3.  Subprojects selected in
completed, participation of                                        accordance with
local stakeholders improved.                                       technical, social and
5.  Beneficiary villages and                                            economic criteria, and
communes contribute to                                             realized efficiently.
subproject costs.
2.  Project Management and             6.  PIU prepares Operations           Operations Manual.
Institutional Strengthening            Manual and financial plan for
Ph.2.
7.  M & E system in place and         M & E reports.
producing reliable information.
8.  Training program carried out      Staff performance
and some results seen.           evaluation reports.



Page 20
Annex 2
Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Project Description
Development Goal of the NVDP Programme
The NVDP program aims to alleviate poverty by reducing the number of impoverished villages and the
number of people living in poverty. For this purpose, concerted efforts will be made to increase the economic
status of communities which combines capital accumulation and human resource development with creation of
vital infrastructures and will be achieved by strengthening the PDRD in the four provinces, who are able to assist
poor households in becoming more productive and self-reliant.
Immediate Objectives
In order to achieve the above development goal, activities under the NVDP (January 1999 to October
2001) will undertake the following:
Immediate Objective # I
Improve income generation opportunities and general productivity in the rural areas through support to
agricultural and rural enterprise development.
outputs
1.A    Improved rural economy and enhanced living standards of the people through increased agriculture
production, better live stocks, and dissemination of technical knowledge.
1.B.   Increased people's access to credit for farm and non-farm activities by providing appropriate technical
advice and information about potential sources of credit from specialized credit providers such as NGOs and other
projects.
Immediate Objective # 2
Improve the basic rural and community infrastructure necessary for economic growth.
Outputs
2.A.   Rehabilitate village tracks and small bridges to increase access to markets and ease delivery of social
services at the village level.
2.B.   Rehabilitate and improve potable drinking water supplies, small-scale irrigation systems, and flood control
measures.
Immediate Objective # 3
Reinforce and back up the capacity of local institutions to identify, plan, implement, monitor and manage rural
development activities in the target districts of four provinces.
Outputs
3.A.   Trained Provincial Project Implementation Units (PPIUs) in each of the four provinces.
3.B.   Documented guidelines for NVDP  sub-project design, appraisal, approval, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and financial management (including procurement of goods and services,
recourse to private sector, contracting out, and payments).



Page 21
3.C.   Installed and operationalized data-base in the four PPIUs/PIU covering socio-economic information,
sub-project details, priorities, resources etc.
3.D.   Facilitated decentralization of demand-driven planning, financing and implementation of rural
development.
3.E.   Developed co-ordination and co-operation among line departments and other national, international
and non-governmental agencies engaged in rural development, as well as the private sector.
Immediate Objective # 4
Complete documentation of the NVDP activities as learning experiences that will serve to develop the
long-term 5-year phase of the project.
Outputs
4.A.   Documented information and data gained through Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) exercises,
socio-economic and sector surveys, case studies, and monitoring reports in each of the four provinces
which assess development constraints and opportunities.
4.B.   Completed preparation of the 5-year long-term phase of the NVDP programme.
Project Activities
Corresponding to the objectives set forth above, activities of the NVDP will take the form of sub-projects
which will be divided into the following four activity-components.
Directly Productive Activities
* Agricultural development: Within this category are included programs for irrigation systems rehabilitation
and development, livestock improvement, and technical advice to smallholder farmers for developing rice
and other annual crops, tree crops, livestock and fish raising.
*  Rural Credit/Micro-enterprise development: This includes technical advice and credit to small-scale
farmers/entrepreneurs in support of farm-based activities, as well as for developing non-farm enterprises
such as small-scale nurseries, fish processing, silk-making and handicrafts, mechanical repair shops,
tailoring, etc.
Indirectly Productive Activities
*  Rural infrastructure improvement: Examples include tertiary road rehabilitation, bridge repair, and port
improvement.
*  Community asset improvement: Examples include village water supply and sanitation, community ponds,
rice banks, flood control measures, marketplace improvement, etc.
Institutional Strengthening and Development
*  National and provincial planning and management strengthening: This will largely take the form of
technical assistance to the PIU and PPIUs, support to Provincial Rural Development Committees, and the
production of basic data regarding levels of income, and land use.
*  Community-level planning and management strengthening: A key area to the NVDP, this includes support
to village development committees (VDCs) and other appropriate local organizational structures.



Page 22
* Private sector development: This includes some management training and practical experience gained
through work on NVDP sub-projects contracted-out to private entrepreneurs.
Documentation of the Experiences
*  Establish a monitoring focal point within the PPIU in the four provinces and in PIU to gather information
and analyze the findings.
*  Defne criteria and identifv sample villages/sub-projects for time-series case studies and fully document the
process.
* Regularly prepare and disseminate reports to the various ministries of the government, concerned local
government officials, community leaders, donors, NGOs and other key personnel.
* Organize provincial and inter-provincial level workshops to review the lessons being learned, and
formulate recommendations for developing the long-term phase of the NVDP program and project strategy
as needed to improve effectiveness.
Activities Outside the Scope of the NVDP
In reviewing what the NVDP will support, it is equally important to note what the NVDP will not
support and activities outside the scope. For example, the following types of subproject will not be eligible for
financing under the NVDP:
*   Purchase or leasing of land
*   Renovation or construction on private land
*   Any project which reflects political partisanship
*   Any project of potential detriment to the environment
*   Any project which may adversely affect the social and cultural identity of ethnic minority
populations
*   Recurrent expenses
*   The preparation of sub-project proposals, beyond limited technical assistance which may be
available
TARGET GROUPS
The NVDP's target groups are poor people who live in a village which has been categorized as being
less-developed. They are community groups whose incomes are low and who have limited access to
infrastructure and services, and to capital for meeting basic or emergency needs.
For the NVDP prograrn, the basic unit of work is the Village Development Committee (VDC). The
VDC is elected by the village population and is recognized by the Royal Government as an autonomous, non-
governmental body belonging to the village. The VDC is mandated to represent the village to government, to
other civil associations and local agencies, as well as to international agencies, in planning and managing their
own process of village development. Based upon agreement with government, and guidance and training
provided through the NVDP, the VDC is responsible for facilitating the planning and management of village
development with the broad participation of the community, other village associations and activity groups.
In putting the principle of mutual interests into practice, all members take part in shouldering
responsibility, trust each other, and help each other. With such camaraderie, opportunities will arise which will
enable the collection of funds from members, joint management of the funds and utilization of the funds in the
interest of all members. This camaraderie is an indication of the co-operative spirit which lays the groundwork
for self-reliant and sustaining VDCs. The existence of several other development groups within a village such as
Pagoda Committees do not affect the VDC but complement its work.



Page 23
PROMOTERS
The staff of the PPIU, serving as facilitators and communicators of the process, are responsible for the
setting up and operation of the VDCs/local organizations. They are called "Promoters", full-time staff of the
PPIU, who receive training in communication and development, attend VDC meetings, and organize training
programs at the grassroots level. The responsibilities of promoters include efforts to raise the capabilities for
managing and operating the sub-projects, and to promote the economic and entrepreneurial capabilities of the
members. For this purpose, it is imperative that a promoter knows his or her group and communicates
intensively with it. The fostering of activities can be done by the promoter alone, but they can also be realized
by inviting local people or NGO representatives as appropriate. The main task of the promoter is to assist in the
process of managing VDCs/local activities, starting with the preparation in forming the VDCs/local
organizations right through to the completion of a development sub-project. In order to be effective, each
promoter will cover no more than three villages. In addition, technical facilitators working at the PPIUs/PIU
will provide technical support.
Development of VDCs, Local Organizations and Civil Society
The development of civil society is a key objective of the NVDP program in the north-east provinces.
Within the framework of the NVDP, specific programs will be undertaken to work with civil society to raise
awareness, increase the income of the people, and generate the values of democracy and people's participation.
Awareness and openness will be engendered by the members being introduced to accept new ideas and
organizations. Income will be increased when capital and savings begin to accumulate and members continue to
be able to make productive undertakings. Democracy and participation will be illustrated by the fact that
management of the sub-projects is conducted through a group process, and that decision-making is undertaken
through deliberation and consensus. Subsequently, members, led by the committee, will hold periodic meetings,
the purpose of which is to agree upon what further steps need taking and what activities will be pursued, as well
as to evaluate results attained so far. Each and every member is encouraged to take part in such meetings to
discuss problems and attempt to solve those encountered by the group or individual members.
In order to ensure the smooth and effective running of programs towards the alleviation of poverty,
target group people living in the four provinces are expected to organize themselves into VDCs so that the
services can be rendered in an effective manner, interaction among group members can be promoted, and
camaraderie and mutual co-operation can be developed and nurtured. The existence of the VDC will make it
possible for the communities to supervise the execution of the NVDP program by themselves. The setting up of
the VDCs will involve all parties knowledgeable of the people in each province. Within the framework of
forming VDCs, data on poor people will be collected and analyzed. Where possible, exploratory socioeconomic
research tools will be used to strengthen the work.
Capacity Building through NVDP
The capacity building dimensions of the program involve the following:-
* Promoting and strengthening the Provincial Departments of Rural Development, and organizations of
civil society;
* Strengthening sectoral and cross-sectoral collaboration;
* Facilitating social inclusion; and
* Providing professional training.
These capacity building dimensions will be applied in the program in the following skills areas:-
Governance: Through training, provincial officials, civil servants and members of PPIU at all levels will
improve their skills in governance, basic administration and management in order to fulfil their responsibilities
and implement the NVDP at the provincial level.
Participation: Through capacity building in facilitation skills, the active participation of men and women
within govermment and civil society, in all aspects of the development process and according to clarified roles,
will be encouraged and developed.



Page 24
Gender Awareness: Through gender awareness training, and training on how to use planning tools in a gender
sensitive way, the development of gender responsive local sub-projects will be encouraged.
Planning and Implementation: Through technical assistance and training of trainers and promoters, village
sub-projects will be developed and implemented in accordance with the expressed priorities of the people while
integrating local plans with the vision, policies and programs of the NVDP. Through such experiences, and
through the increasing responsibilities provided to them through the proposed trial program in which
community organizations which demonstrate the ability to carry out procurement tasks alone or with a
minimum of assistance from Project personnel, the local institutions will gain confidence to plan and implement
investment programs.
Financial Management: Witlh technical assistance, transparent provincial financial systems will be jointly
designed by the various agencies of the Royal Government and the Ministry of Rural Development, and which
are in accordance with evolving financial regulations. They will meet the requirements of the donors to the
NVDP and will enable development activities emerging from the local and provincial plans to be financially
supported. Through capacity building in financial management and auditing, from national to village level,
transparency and accountability will be strengthened.
Technical Fields: The technical assistance will be provided in the areas of agriculture production, live stock,
construction of small-scale infrastructure skills and other sub-projects that are prioritized by the villagers. The
thrust of the project will be to transfer the skills and knowledge in these sectoral areas to both the people and
institutions.
Local Economic Management: Through awareness raising activities, including study tours to neighboring
countries, fornal training in economic management and contract administration, market analysis and research,
and increased dialogue with local entrepreneurs, local government officials will be assisted in establishing an
enabling environment, necessary for accelerating the growth of enterprise.
Planning ofActivities and Funding Procedures
In drawing up a plan of activities and for the use of NVDP funds, there are several main guiding
principles. These are: (a) the principle of integration; (b) the principle of trust; (c) the principle of mutual
cooperation; (d) the principle of self-reliance; (e) the principle of economies of scale; and (f) the principle of
sustainability.
The VDCs, as target groups, will be entrusted to identify the problems being encountered and the
needs to be satisfied by the communities to promote the rural economy and to select and determine the kind of
activity to be undertaken, in accordance with the potential of the village. Emphasis will be placed on the
productive features of the sub-projects proposed and their capability to sustain themselves. Following this
exercise, an indicative planning figure (IPF) will be established for each community taking into account the
annual work plan and resources of the Project. As mentioned above, communities considered capable of taking
a greater role in the procurement of works and services will, on a trial basis, be provided funds by the Project
under a contract which requires that community to contract for, manage and account for those funds in the
implementation of their agreed action plans.
The kind of activities eligible for NVDP sub-project funding will have to meet one or more of the
following requirements:
o  that it yield results within a reasonable time so that the incidence of expenses and the receipt of
benefits is not too long
*  that it utilizes the potential which already exist within the village
*  that it yield products which are marketable and able to meet market demands so that value added
can be secured
*  that it is capable of satisfying urgent basic needs and involve as many poor people as possible
*  that it yields results which benefit all households living in the village
*  that it can be done by using methods which are known and mastered by the community, by using
existing and original know-how which, technically, can be easily put into practice.



_ _ _ _ _   _    _                     -    -
Page 25
* that it is attuned to the local potentials and ecological conditiqns and is not detrimental to the
physical environment
*  that it includes women and disabled people and vulnerable groups
-   that it is mutually supportive, and does not compete with other activities being pursued through
sectoral and regional programs
*  that it is socio-culturally acceptable to the community
Proposals are prepared by the VDCs and submitted to the respective PPIU (for more details refer to the
Operations Manual). In order for the proposed activity to reach the objective of alleviating poverty, it is
imperative that the VDCs, in collaboration with the PPRJ staff persons, identify the problems encountered by
each household in relation to efforts to raise his or her welfare. In identifying the problems, and also in drawing
up the activity plan, the group is guided by a facilitator. Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) techniques will be
extensively used.
END-OF-PROJECT SITUATION
By the end of the 30-month LIL, in late-2001, the project will have developed the capacity of the
Departments of Rural Development in the four provinces to independently plan, and manage rural development
sub-projects. It will have developed better links with the PRDC. Working systems and trained personnel for
participatory rural development projects, and for carrying out basic land use planning and registration, will have
been put in place. The NVDP will have provided all the people with an opportunity to contribute meaningfully
to meeting the needs of the farily, community and society. Through the active participation of the VDCs, the
poor will be in a stronger position. This start-up phase will have helped the NVDP to gain experience and
enable those involved to prepare the long-term plan for the following 5-year phase.
In sun, the start-phase of the NVDP program will have supported four capacity building areas of the
government and civil society: (a) by improving the human resource quality, (b) developing rural infrastructure,
(c) increasing employment and small-scale business opportunities, and (d) reinforcing institutional
arrangements for poor people. Further, at the completion of this start-up phase, the rural economy of the four
provinces as a whole will have improved. It is expected that NVDP sub-projects will have directly benefited
about 10,000 rural households to raise their incomes through financing of agricultural and non-farmiing
productive activities. The NVDP will have further developed the private sector in the area. The longer term 5-
year development program for the area will have been prepared.



Page 26
Annex 3
Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local          Foreign      Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Participatory Planning and Investment                     2.6              1.4        4.0
Institutional Strengthening and Project Management        0.7              1.1        1.8
Total Baseline Cost                                       3.4              2.4        5.8
Physical Contingencies                                  0.2             0.1         0.3
Price Contingencies                                     0.1             0.1         0.2
Total Project Cost                                        3.6              2.7        6.3



Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Table 1. Participatory Planning and Investment
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantities               Unit                    Base Cost
Unit    1999       2000     2001     Total    Cost    1999        2000        2001       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Consulting Services
1. Credit Financed TA
1. Institutional Development Advisor     month          8         12      10        30   8,000    64,000       96,000    80,000     240,000
2. Financial Advisor                      month          4         8       4        16  12,000    48,000       96,000    48,000      192,000
3. Short-term consultants                 month          5         5       5        15  12,000    60,000       60,000    60,000      180,000
Subtotal Credit Financed TA                                                                       172,000     252,000   188,000      612,000
2. Grant Financed TA
1. Community DevelopmentVLD-A (3)        month          18        36      18        72   6,500   117,000    -234,000   117,000      468,000
2. Training Specialist                    month          4         4       4        12   8,000    32,000       32,000    32,000       96,000
3. Rural Engineer                         month                    6       6        12   8,000          -      48,000    48,000       96,000
4. Short-term consultants                  LS                                                      14,000      14,000    14,000      42,000
Subtotal Grant Financed TA                                                                        163,000     328,000   211,000     702,000
Subtotal Consulting Services                                                                        335,000     580,000   399,000    1,314,000
B. Subprojects
1. Province/District infrastructure subprojects  LS               4       10        14  50,000          -     200,000   500,000     700,000
2. CommuneNillage infrastructure subprojects  LS                  25      45        70  20,000          -     500,000   900,000    1,400,000
3. Income-generating subprojects           LS                     10      30        40  10,000          -     100,000   300,000     400,000
4. Community facilities subprojects        LS                     10      30        40   5,000          -      50,000   150,000     200,000
Subtotal Subprojects                                                                                      -     850,000  1.850,000    2,700,000
Total                                                                                           335,000    1,430,000  2,249,000    4,014,000



Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Project
Table 2. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities                                        Base Cost
Unit      1999      2000    2001      Total    Unit Cost    1999     2000       2001        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Renovation of Office Buildings
Ministry (Phnom Penh)                                                       1                                90,000     90,000                            90,000
PIU (Kompong Cham)                                        building          1                          1     35,000     20,000     15,000                 35,000
PPIU (3 Provinces)                                        building                  3                  3     15.000               45.000                  45,000
District (B outside Provincial HQs)                       building                  8                  8       5000               40.000                  40,000
Subtotal Renovation of Office Buildings                                                                                  110,000o    100,000               210,000
B. Staff Training Courses                                     LS                                                          15,000    20,000     10,000       45.000
C. Office and Communications Equipment /a                     LS                                                          42,000    98,000     14,000      154,000
D. Vehicles
1. 4WD Vehicle                                             unit             1                          1    40,000      40,000                            40,000
2. 4WD Pickups/b                                            unit            6       6                 12     30.000    180,000    180,000                360,000  2
3. Motorcydes/c                                             unit                   34                 34      1,500               51,000                  51 .000 w
4. Diesel Boat                                              unit                    1                  1    35.000                35.000                  35,000  G
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                                        220,000    266,000                486,000
E. Independent audits                                         LS                                                          15,000    15,000     15,000      45,000
F. Financial management system/MIS                            LS                                                          25,000    25,000     25,000       75,000
G. Subproject design/contract supervision                     LS                                                                    40,000     40,000       80,000
H. Impact evaluation studies                                  LS                                                                    50.000     50.000      100.000
1. Follow-on project feasibility study                        LS                                                                              200,000     200,000
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                     427,000   614,000    354,000    1,395,000
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs /d                             LS                                                          30,000    60.000     90,000      180,000
B. Incremental Staff Salaries                              staff-year        12      24       28        64       3600     43,200    86,400    100,800      230,400
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                       73.200    146.400    190,800     410,400
Total                                                                                                                  500,200   760,400   544,800    1,805,400
\a including field communications network (approx $40,000)
\b 1 for PIU. 1 per PPIU (4), 1 per TA (7)
xc 2 for PIU, 4 for each PPIU. 2 for each District
\d includes operating costs for PIU, PPIUs, District offices and vehicles



Cambodia
Northeast Village Development Proect
Table 3. Project Cost and FRnandng Summary
(USS$'00)   (%)
Costs:
1. Partidpatory Planning & Investment            4,014      69
2. Institutional Strengthening & Project Management  1,805  31
Total BASELINE COSTS                             5,819     100
Physical Contingencies                           276       5
Price ConUingendes                               233       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                              6,329     109
Financing:
Beneficiaries (12% of subprojects cost)           330        5
Govemment budget (5% of total costs)              316        5
Japanese Grant                                    702       11
IDA Credit                                       4,980      79
Total FINANCING                                  6,329     100



Page 30
Annex 4
Northeast Village Development Project
Cambodia
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of all works and goods would follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). Contracts for consulting services would be
procured in accordance with provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers", published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Civil works (US$0.2 million) would mostly consist of small contracts for the rehabilitation of
existing office buildings in Phnom Penh and in the project area and would not therefore be suitable
for procurement through competitive bidding procedures. All works! of which none are expected to
cost more than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, would be procured through simplified procedures
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation would include a detailed description of
the works including basic specifications, the required completion date, a form of agreement
acceptable to the Association and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the work and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods (US$0.7 million) required for the project would comprise equipment and vehicles. The
required items of office and communications equipment are readily available through competitive
suppliers in Cambodia. Equipment and a diesel-powered boat (US$0.2 million) would be procured
under contracts awarded through National Shopping procedures based on a comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in response to a written invitation including a
detailed description of quantities and specifications of the goods. Procurement of vehicles required
for the project (US$0.5 million) would for reasons of efficiency and economy be procured at standard
advertised prices through the UN's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), since the
quantities involved would not justify ICB procurement.
Services (US$2.2 million) required for the project would comprise consultant services (including
provision of independent audits and training courses). Contracts with firms (US$0.6 million) would
be lumpsum contracts procured using quality-based selection arrangements, following the Bank's
standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997, revised April 1998, while contracts for individual
consultants' services (US$1.6 million), including short-term consultants (procurement, finance, M&E,
rural engineering), would be procured through procedures covered under Section V of the Consultants
Guidelines. The payment of contractual staff salaries (US$0.2 million) and incremental operating
expenditures (US$0.2 million) would follow Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Personnel
selected to fill key project positions would be recruited on contract following a competitive selection
procedure, based on advertised job descriptions, and remunerated in line with local market conditions,
since Government pay-scales are generally inadequate to retain qualified and motivated staff.



Page 31
Other activities to be financed under the credit include Investment Subprojects (US$3.0
million) and Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.2 million). Investment Subprojects, mostly expected
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each, would be procured through shopping procedures, based on
the solicitation of three price quotations from qualified contractors as noted above. In order to permit
beneficiaries to make their contribution to the costs of subproject construction in the form of labor or
materials, these procedures could be adapted to allow for community participation in the case of
subprojects expected to cost less than US$25,000 each. The payment of incremental operating
expenditures (US$0.2 million) would follow Government procedures acceptable to IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review would be required for (a) the first three works contracts and all works contracts
in excess of US$25,000; (b) the first three contracts for goods and all contracts for goods in excess of
US$25,000; (c) all contracts for services in excess of US$50,000 equivalent for firms and US$25,000
equivalent for individuals; and (d) the first contract in each province for investment subprojects,
regardless of value, and all such contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US25,000 or more.
These arrangements would ensure prior review by IDA of contracts worth an estimated US$2.65
million, or about 40 percent of the value of all goods, works and services to be procured under the
project. Ex-post review would be carried out on a sample basis of one out of four contracts for those
contracts not subject to prior review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of proceeds is shown in Table C of this Annex.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for project
operating costs, and for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods, works and consultants' services
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts with consulting
firms not exceeding U$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) investment subprojects costing less than
US$25,000 each. Documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the PIU and made
available to the Bank on request. All other disbursements from the Credit would be fully
documented.
Special account:
In order to facilitate Credit disbursement and reduce the number of withdrawal applications,
the Borrower would establish a Special Account, to be maintained in US dollars, at the National Bank
of Cambodia (NBC). The authorized ceiling for the account would be US$500,000, equivalent to
about four months' average disbursement of the Credit.



Page 32
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NS          Other       NBF
1. Works
Civil Works                        -        0.2            -           -            0.2
(0.2)          -                       (0.2)
2. Goods
Vehicles and Equipment                       0.3           0.4         -            0.7
(0.3)        (0.4)                     (0.7)
3. Services
Consultant Services a/             -         -             1.5         0.7          2.2
(1.5)                    (1.5)
4. Other
Investment Subprojects             -         0.7          2.3          -            3.0
(0.5)       (1.9)                     (2.4)
5. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Operating Costs        -         -             0.2         -            0.2
(0.2)                    (0.2)
Total                           -         1.2           4.4         0.7          6.3
-        (1.0)         (4.0)        -           (5.0)
Note:   NBF. = Not Bank-financed. Procurement arrangements for items listed under "NS" and "Other" include
national shopping, community participation in subproject implementation and direct contracting
(IAPSO). Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be fnanced by IDA. a/ including contractual staff
salaries.



Page 33
Annex 4, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method          Total Cost
Consultant Services Expenditure                                  (including
Category,                                             contingencies)
QBS         Other      NBF
A. Firmns
Financial Systems/MIS               0.1                                0.1
Post-Evaluation Studies             0.1                                0.1
Project Feasibility Studies         0.2                                0.2
Subproject design/supervision,
Independent audits                0.1                                 0.1
Training services                   0.1                                0.1
B. Individuals
Institutional Development Advisor                0.2                   0.2
Financial Advisor                                0.2                   0.2
Short term consultants                           0.2                   0.2
LDA, Training and Rural                                     0.7        0.7
Engineering Advisors
Contractual staff                                0.2                    0.2
Total                  0.6         0.9         0.7        2.2
(0.6)       (0.9)        -         (1.5)
Note: totals may not add because of rounding.
QBS = Quality-based Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines. NBF. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA.
N.B. Any contract expected to cost over US$200,000 must be advertised in
'Development Business'.



Page 34
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value    Procurement              Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)        Method           Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
US $                                     US $ millions
1. Works
Civil Works                            NS                1I' three contracts     $ 0.05 m
above 25,000    NS                all contracts          $ 0.15 m
2. Goods
Vehicles and Equipment                  NS                I" three contracts     $ 0.05 m
above 25,000    NS, UN            All contracts          $ 0.55 m
3. Services
Consultant Services    Firms > $50,000  Consulting                               $1.35 m
Individuals >   Services
$25,000
4. Miscellaneous
Investment Subprojects    Regardless of    Community      VSt contract per province   $ 0.05 m
value    participation
Above    NS                  all contracts          $ 0.45 m
25,000
Incremental Operating             -
Costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               $ 2.65 m



Page 35
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$  Financing Percentage
1. Works                                              $200,000  90%
2. Vehicles and Equipment                             $650,000  100 % foreign
expenditures, 100 % of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
3. Consultant Services                              $1,450,000  100 %
4. Grants (Investment Subprojects)                  $2,300,000  90%
5. Incremental Operating Costs                        $200,000  90%
6. Unallocated                                        $200,000
Total       $5,000,000



Page 36
Annex 5
Northeast Village Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PMGD stage)
$98,500              $98,500
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PMGD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                     9
First Bank mission (identification)             3/10/1998            3/10/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     9/15/1998            11/30/1998
Negotiations started                            10/06/1998           3/17/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   2/01/1999            7/01/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Rural Development
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Trust Funds (29737, 27026) total $122,000 approx.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Christopher Redfern                       Task Team Leader/Economist
Lars Lund                                 Social Assessment
Glenn Morgan                              Environmental
Jean-Claude Sallier                       Rural Infrastructure/Operations Manual
Christopher Naab/David Sislen             TA/Procurement
Mostafa El-Erian/Raj Soopramanien         Legal
Gaye Lindsey/Omowunmi Ladipo              Disbursement/Financial Management
Amanda Days/Kathryn Cherrie               Team Assistants



Page 37
Annex 6
Northeast Village Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Revised PIP (January 1999)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Various mission reports
C. Other
Project Document (November 1998)
Social Assessment (May 1998)
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 04/30/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cambodia
Operations Portfolio
As of 26-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
KH-PE-4030       1999   GOVT OF CAMBODIA                  Kii-RD REBABIT.                           0.00        45.31        0.00              43.82         0.00        0.00
KH-PE-50601      1999                                     KH-SOCIAL FUND II                          0.00       25.00        0.00              24.29         0.00        0.00
KH-PE-45629      1998   CAMBODIA                          URBAN WATER SUPPLY                         0.00       30.96        0.00              29.39         4.42        0.00
KH-PE-4033       1997   GOVT OF CAMBODIA                  AGRI.PRODUCT IMP.                          0.00       27.00        0.00              25.11        12.69          .44
KH-PE-4034       1997   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA               DISEASE CONTROL&HEAL                       0.00       30.40        0.00              22.74         9,51        0.00
KH-PE-4032       1996   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA               PHNOM PEHN POWER REH                      0.00        40.00        0.00               7.46         9.79        0.00
KH-PE-34755      1995   GOVT. OF CAMBODIA                 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      0.00        17.00        0.00               3.34         2.97        0.00
KH-PE-37088      1995   KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA               SOCIAL FUND                               0.00        20.00        0.00                .28         1.74        0.00
Total                                                                                               0.00      235.67         0.00             156.43       41.12          ,44
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disburse (IBRD and IDA):                   65.97              101.77               167.74
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  235.67               102.70              338.37
Amount Sold                      :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
of which repaid                                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               156.43                 0.00              156.43
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                   Page I



Page 39
MOP Schedule D
Cambodia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   CPP                     15.00    0.00    4.30   45.20
1997                   SLP INVESTMENTS         5.25    0.00    0.00    2.25
Total Pending Conmnitment:         20.25    0.00    4.30   47.45
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 04/30/99



Page 40
Annex 8
Cambodia at a glance                                                                9/18/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &      Low-
Cambodia    Pacific  income       Development diamond'
1 997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      10.5     1,753     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   300        970       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      3.2     1,707       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (V.)                                       2.7       1.3       2.1
Labor force (%)                                       2.4       1.4       2.3     GNP                              Gross
par                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               22        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       54        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              102        38        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             38        16        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populat/on)                 13        84        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   35        17        47
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  122       115        91                  Cambodia
Male                                                134       118       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              109       116        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                              3.1       3.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                  20.6      16.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              26.4      29.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..       ..       4.6       4.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..       ..       6.4
Current account balance/GDP                    ..             -15.4    -11.2      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                              ..           0.2       0.2                                 Investment
Total debt/G1P                                 ..      ,,      67.1      66.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       1.2       0.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      48.0
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    181.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..     5.4      7.0       2.0        ..             -     Cambodia
GNP per capita                       ..      2.2      3.9      -0.3        ..             -    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 ..        ..       ..              _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      50.7      51.0       -
Industry                                      ..       ..      15.3      15.3     6
Manufacturing                                ..      ..        5.3       5.7    4
Services                                      ..       ..      34.0      33.7     2
Private consumption                           ..       ..      87.1      86.4           92   93   94   99   96   97
General government consumption                ..       ..       8.2       8.8                     GDI          GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      42.4      41.4                -   GDI      -   GDP
197646  1987-97      1996      1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..      3.1        2.4      2.1
Industry                                      ..      9.1      18.2       2.9
Manufacturing                                ..      7.2      12.8       8.8
Services                                       ..     6.8       8.9       1.3
Private consumption                           ..
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..
Gross national product                        ..      5.2        6.5      2.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 41
Cambodia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1976     1986       1996       1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                               150 .
Consumer prices                                   ..                  9.0       9.1     199
Implicit GDP deflator                      .               ..        7.1      10.0
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                    |          92    93    94    95    96    97
Current revenue                                    ..       ..        9.2       9.5    I -so
Current budget balance                             ..       ..       -0.6       0.8                 -GDP defator  - e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            .         .       -6.6      -4.5     _
TRADE                                                                                                        _-
1976     1986       1996       1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ,                 659       734      1500
Rubber                                           ..       ..         32        36
Logs                                             .         ..       149       103       00 
Manufactures                                                        113       258      1000
Total imports (cifl                                ..       ..      1,110     1,037                                      J
Food                                             ..    .              .                                Jii 
Fuel and energy                                  ,         .           ,         ,                 9     3        l
Capital goods                                                                                    4a                         l
91   92   93   94   99   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..        ..         ..         ..               a Exports       M Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                         ..                    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                      ___                         ,
1976    1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio l%I
(US$ millions)l
Exportsofgoods andservices                                           831        920 
Imports of goods and services                      .         ..     1,332     1,261
Resource bajWnce                                   .         ..      -501      -361       .
Net income                                         .                   -9        .5
Net current transfers                             ..                                     10
Current account balance                            ..       ..      -485       -346
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..        537       376
Changes in net reserves                            ..       ..        -52       -30      -20 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..        ..       234        264
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWUSS)                    ..       ..   2,624.1   2,989.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..      2,111     2,049
IBRD                                             ..       ..          0         0                       G: 19   is 108
IDA                                              ..       ..       108        132                  F 10           C: 69
Composition of tr    1        fUSS millions)
Total debt service                                                     10         5
IBRD                                             .         .          0         0
IDA                                              .        ..          1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..        ..       206        116
Official creditors                              ..        ..         81        37
Private creditors                               ..        ..         -3         0
Foreign direct investment                       ..        ..       240        135
Portfolio equity                                ..        ..          0         0                E 1,821
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..          0        57      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..        ..        46         30      B - IDA   D - Other rnultilateral    F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            ..        ..          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..       ..        46         30
Interest payments                               ..        ..          1         1
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        45         30
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/18/98



Page 42
Annex 9
Rural Development and Decentralization In Cambodia
A. Introduction
1.    Rural development is critical to the eradication of poverty in Cambodia. The rural areas
account for about 80 percent of the country's total population but some 90 percent of poor households
reside in them. There is wide disparity in poverty between urban and rural areas. While the national
poverty incidence was 36 percent in 1997, the poverty incidence in the rural areas was 40 percent
compared to 11 percent in Phnom Penh and 30 percent in other urban areas. Moreover, the
contribution of rural areas to total poverty nationwide has increased from 83 percent in 1993-1994 to
89 percent in 1997. Therefore, government efforts should be more focused on the rural areas and
better targeted at the poor.
2.    Donor agencies are the major players in rural development. Programs to address rural
poverty are often uncoordinated, ranging from agriculture extension services, provision of water
supply, construction of rural roads and small irrigation canals, and extension of credit (Table 1). With
the exception of the Hun Sen Krangyov Development Center which, though privately funded is run
by government staff, there is no rural development program that is managed and funded solely by the
national government. The continued dependence of the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) on
donor support in terms of both financial and technical aspects is primarily a result of lack of
institutional capacity of both central and local governments to plan and implement projects. This
institutional weakness is exacerbated by inadequate domestic revenues.
3.    Donor agencies have adopted various rural development approaches, ranging from fast-
disbursing, top-down strategies such as those employed by the World Bank's Social Fund project and
PRASAC of the European Union, to more participatory, decentralized approaches that work through
the rural development structures, such as those adopted by Seila/CARERE2, the Provincial
Development Program (PDP) of GTZ, the Community Action for Social Development (CASD)
Program of UNICEF, and non-government organizations (NGOs) like Partners for Development
(PFD) and Oxfam/Chumraen Chiet Khmer (CCK). Although most of these programs have poverty
alleviation as their key objective, even those that are participatory in approach have not clearly
articulated their strategies for reaching the poor. In addition, many of these programs do not have
effective monitoring and evaluation systems to permit learning and mid-course correction of
weaknesses in design or implementation.
4.    In its first Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) for 1996-2000, the RGC
committed itself to decentralized rural development using a participatory and bottom-up approach
through the rural development structures (RDS) established in 1995. The legal and policy framework
for decentralization, however, is still in its incipient stage. A Provincial Budget Management Law,
passed in February 1998 and scheduled for implementation in all provinces in fiscal year 1999,
provides for limited budget and management decentralization to provinces and cities. The commune
elections planned for late 1999 will be another important step towards conferring legal authority to
lower levels of government and towards defining parameters for effective functioning of elected local
governments. It remains to be seen, however, to what extent these policy reforms will allow for real
devolution of administrative and fiscal autonomy to local government.



Page 43
5.    The commitment of the national government and the support of donor agencies are both
critical for decentralizing rural development activities. The emerging consensus is that there should
be a gradual phasing out of direct donor involvement and more deliberate attempts at localizing the
process of rural development. If this direction is pursued, there is a related concern about the type of
decentralized rural development approach that would be most appropriate to the existing financial,
institutional, and human resource capacities of the RGC.
6.    The approach of Seila/CARERE2 is emerging as the dominant one for decentralized rural
development in Cambodia. It has a comprehensive decentralized planning and financing system that
works through all levels of the rural development structures. Since December 1997, the project has
established links to government at the national level with the creation of a Seila Task Force (STF), an
inter-ministerial body for providing policy oversight and guidance to the CARERE2 project.
Seila/CARERE2 hopes that, by the year 2001, it will no longer be an experiment limited to five
provinces but a model of decentralized rural development which the national government could take
ownership of and responsibility for and assure its adaptation and replication in other provinces.
Already, there is an ongoing push from some project proponents for this approach to be adopted in
rural development projects now coming on stream.
7.    However, the readiness of the Seila/CARERE approach for replication after 2000 remains
open to question. At this juncture, it is premature to speak of a model that is replicable nationwide
because both the planning and financing systems that are key components of the proposed model are
still in the process of being re-tested and fine-tuned. It will probably take at least one or two years to
evaluate the outcomes of the restructured systems now on the drawing board before a model is ready
for replication.
8.    An equally important issue is whether the national government has the capacity, both
technically and financially, to take ownership of and responsibility for the Seila/CARERE project by
2001. Because the Seila/CARERE approach is comprehensive and complex, it will have wide-
ranging implications upon the government's financial and institutional capacities. The proposed
model requires a full-scale mobilization of the rural development structures to manage the planning
and financing systems and a substantial infusion of funds to support subproject financing and to cover
administrative overhead. Moreover, the successful transfer of the Seila/CARERE project approach
will rely on the national government's capacity to provide regular and effective policy guidance to
lower levels of government. It seems that, at least for the five Seila/CARERE provinces, planning
and implementation capacities of local government may be developing faster than those of the
national government. The long-term sustainability of a decentralized system, however, depends on
the effective capacity of both local and national governments. In order for a decentralized system to
be self-sustaining and less dependent on direct donor support, institutional capacity at both the
national and local levels will have to converge.
9.    There are elements in the Seila/CARERE2 approach that are worth examining to inform the
NVDP and other rural development projects now in the pipeline. These include its planning and
financing systems and the institutional framework in which these systems operate, involving both
Commune Development Committees (CDCs) and Provincial Rural Development Committees
(PRDCs). In examining the Seila/CARERE approach, it is important to take into account the existing
capacities of local governments and of the national coordination agencies such as the Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD). The issue is how this approach can become transferable given initial
conditions and how technical assistance and transfer of decentralized responsibilities to lower levels
of governments should be phased and sequenced to achieve maximum results in developing the
capacities and responsibilities needed for effective service delivery in rural areas.



Page 44
10.   The rest of this paper has four parts. The first provides an overview of government policies
for decentralized rural development. The following parts discuss processes and mechanisms for
planning and financing decentralized rural development, with particular focus on lessons from the
Seila/CARERE experience. The final part summarizes the main issues related to decentralized rural
development in Cambodia and provides recommendations.
B. Government Policies on Decentralization
11.   The Government's Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP), 1996-2000
provides the framework for a decentralized and participatory approach to rural development. The
SEDP calls for direct involvement of villagers in identifying their most urgent felt needs and in
implementing actions to address those needs. An important component of this approach is the
development of institutions at provincial and local levels to implement coherent rural development
programs. Decision No. 136 of December 1994 established a new rural development and management
structure consisting of successive levels. These include the Council for Agriculture and Rural
Development (CARD), the Provincial Rural Development Committees (PRDCs), the District
Development Committees (DDCs), the Commune Development Committees (CDCs), and the Village
Development Committees (VDCs). The decree assigned responsibility to the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD) to formulate and establish rural development structures (RDS) and
subsequently, to serve as the lead agency for the coordination and planning of rural development.
Under this rural development program, the Seila/CARERE2 project was initiated in early 1996 as a
joint initiative in decentralized planning and financing between the RGC and the lTNDP.
12.   The impetus for decentralization has gained momentum only in the last year. A national level
forum to provide policy oversight on the Seila/CARERE project was finally created in December
1997, followed by the passage of a Provincial Budget Management Law in February 1998. The
election of commune councils is now scheduled for late 1999. There are indications that the push for
decentralization is likely to continue in the coming years. In his speech to the National Assembly on
30 November 1998 outlining the platform of the new coalition government, Prime Minister Hun Sen
put emphasis on administrative reforms including the extension of autonomous management to some
provinces and cities. It remains to be seen, however, how quickly the new government will go in
devolving responsibilities to lower levels of government in light of Cambodia's highly centralized
fiscal and administrative arrangements and its lack of financial, human, and institutional capacities at
all levels of government.
C. Rural Development Planning
13.   Cambodia's transition from rehabilitation to development has been reflected in a shift in its
planning orientation, from command and control to a participatory and decentralized process; and
from ad hoc measures to a more comprehensive, development- oriented planning process. At the
national level, this began with the formulation of a two-year rehabilitation plan covering the period
1994-1995, followed by the preparation of the Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP)
for 1996-2000. The SEDP outlines the country's medium-term development objectives and sectoral
strategies. It is accompanied by a three-year rolling plan for development expenditure, the Public
Investment Program (PIP).
14.   At the subnational level, government involvement in development planning is minimal. With
the exception of the five Seila/CARERE provinces, provincial planning has been dormant since 1995
when provincial five-year development plans were prepared to provide inputs to the SEDP. These
plans were mainly compilations of provincial sector plans and were prepared without consultation
with lower levels. Since then, these plans have mostly not been implemented, nor updated. MRD as



Page 45
the lead agency for coordinating rural development planning has also been unable to exercise its
mandate due to lack of financial and technical resources.
15.   Approaches in local development planning. Local planning is undertaken primarily by
donor agencies and NGOs. Their processes vary in scale and approach. They range from quick
disbursing, top-down approaches, such as those employed by the Social Fund of the World Bank and
PRASAC of the EU, to more participatory, decentralized approaches adopted by projects such as
UNDP/CARERE2, GTZ/PDP and UNICEF/CASD. There are variations within the latter approaches
in terms of scale and scope, ranging from village and community-based to multi-sector, multi-level
types of planning. While there is no single local development planning approach in Cambodia, this is
generally in the form of project planning which is village-based and sector-focused, using
participatory rural appraisal (PRA) as a planning instrument to collect data for project formulation
and to draw participation of villagers.
16.   Local planning activities take place primarily in villages, generally through village
development committees (VDCs) or community groups, such as pagoda committees, credit
associations, and women's groups. Participation of villagers consists primarily of presenting
information and voting to choose priority problems, goals, and activities. Another form of
participation is through local contributions provided by project beneficiaries themselves. Villagers
contribute as much as 30 to 50 percent of project costs. A study by CDRI/MRD found that villagers
are willing to contribute to the cost of a project for as long as they are kept well informed in advance
about their responsibilities and the terms and application of their financial contributions. Villagers
who contribute their own resources demonstrate a higher sense of ownership and responsibility for
maintaining infrastructure and facilities.
17.   There are two general categories of local planning. The first category constitutes simple
information gathering for the purpose of project identification and formulation. The second type is a
more elaborate process that involves planning of projects that have multi-sector components
(GTZ/PDP, PRASAC/EU), that target special groups such as women and children (CASD/UNICEF)
and formulate multi-sector, multi-level and multi-year development plans (Seila/CARERE). Much of
the planning done by donor agencies and NGOs falls into the second category, albeit with some
gradations in scale and approach.
18.   On one end of the local planning spectrum are organizations that are low budget and that
work in few villages. For example, Chumraen Chiet Khmer, a local NGO with a three-member staff,
works in four villages in Koh Andet district in Takeo province through the VDCs. Using the PRA to
obtain information from and participation of villagers, it helps villagers through a food for work
scheme in building ponds, irrigation canals, and schools and in setting up rice banks and credit
schemes that are managed by the VDCs.
19.   On the other end are organizations like GTZ/PDP, CASD/UNICEF, PRASAC of the EU, the
Social Fund of the World Bank, and Seila/CARERE2. These programs all have large multi-year
budgets, and work with government institutions and through partner agencies (NGOs and other
donors). GTZ, through its Provincial Development Program (PDP), operates in 25 villages in the
province of Kompong Thom and in other villages in the province of Kampot. It uses the PRA, which
is facilitated by the Provincial Department of Rural Development (PDRD), to identify and develop
village project proposals. GTZ/PDP works through a Provincial Implementation Committee (PIC)
composed of provincial departments, such as agriculture, fisheries, and forestry; hydrology; and
women's affairs. The PIC runs the day to day activities of the PDP and approves funding requesfs
from villages while the PDRD acts as a coordinating agency.



Page 46
20.   CASD/UNICEF is active in eight provinces and works in about 280 villages. It mobilizes
community groups to identify problems that affect the health and well-being of children and women,
using a participatory approach called Tle-A, a variant of PRA. MRD is responsible for coordinating
CASD activities with the participation of other govemment ministries such as Women's Affairs,
Health, Social Action, Labor and Veteran's Affairs, Planning, and Economy and Finance. Its
provincial operation, which manages the day to day activities of the program, is comprised of staff
from various govemrnment departments. CASD also has partnerships with other donor agencies and
NGOs to undertake implementation activities. Funding decisions on projects identified by villagers
are, however, made at the UNICEF headquarters in Phnom Penh.
21.   PRASAC of EU operates in six provinces near Phnom Penh and is active in about 350
villages. It uses consultancy missions to gather baseline information and adopts a rapid impact and
community-based approach to achieve its targets. PRASAC works through govermnent structures, a
"commission mixte" with representation from the MAFF and the MRD, as its formal counterpart.
Provincial operations, however, are managed by three consultancy firms that operate in each of two
neighboring provinces under co-managers (one expatriate co-manager per province) appointed by
PRASAC.
22.   The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SKFC) is financed with an IDA credit from
the World Bank and is designed to respond flexibly to meet small-scale community needs for
rehabilitation and reconstruction of social and economic infrastructure at the local level. It attempts
to cover the entire country and operates through an autonomous govemment agency based in Phnom
Penh. The organization promotes demands for project funding by informing potential beneficiaries
about the program. Its outreach strategy has led to a selection of project recipients biased towards
groups or sectors that-have access to information. Hard- to- reach and poor communities tend to get
left behind, according to a recent impact evaluation. SKFC arranges with line ministries or the
private sector, including contractors, to take the lead in project initiation. Community participation in
the SFKC project cycle has not generally been very strong.
23.   Two-tiered planning systems. The Seila/CARERE approach has the most ambitious rural
development planning process in terms of both scale and scope. It operates in four provinces in the
Northwest - Battambang, Banteay Meanchey, Pursat, and Siem Reap - and, since 1996, in one
province - Rattanakiri - in the Northeast. As of March 1998, it was working in more than 500
villages, organized in selected target areas. The selection of target areas, particularly during the first
phase of the planning cycle, was largely driven by the availability of the existence of CDCs and
VDCs. Other factors that were considered included: the level of development of communes and their
villages, accessibility and security, and cooperation of local authorities. The coverage of the project
accounts for roughly 20 percent of the total communes and villages in the provinces. It has a two-
tiered planning system consisting of a local planning process (LPP) and a provincial development
planning (PDP) system that works through the RDS. The two planning systems are managed
separately under the overall supervision of the Provincial Rural Development Committee (PRDC).
This body is chaired by the provincial governor. Its membership includes directors of the provincial
departments of rural development, planning, agriculture, health, education, and women's affairs.
24.   The LPP is managed by the Local Planning Unit of the PRDC through provincial / district
facilitation teams and technical support teams (TSS), with a combined total personnel of about 45
staff per province. The facilitation teams are responsible for organizing planning and project
formulation at the village and commune levels while the TSS teams are in charge of appraising
project proposals and of monitoring and supervising works in progress. Both teams comprise
seconded personnel from staff and line departments at district and province levels and are provided
monthly remuneration for working full time with PRDC. The PDP process is coordinated by the
provincial Planning Department and works with sector focal points who are seconded personnel from



Page 47
staff and line departments. The PDP team does not work full time and does not receive monthly
remuneration from the project.
25.   The PRDC is emerging as an effective forum for coordination between line departments and
local authorities and also, in varying degrees, with other donor agencies and NGOs working in the
area. Key to its success is the enthusiastic support of provincial govemors and the able and active
leadership of the PRDC secretariat. Equally important is the large amount of technical assistance and
financial support that CARERE has been providing to the provinces to establish and develop the
capacity of the PRDC. In fact, the driving force for the success of the planning system and the
continued support of the local leadership and bureaucracy is the direct link of planning to financing.
26.   Local Planning Process. The LPP uses five PRA  tools (village mapping, social
census/statistics, seasonal calendar, resource flow and wealth ranking) for data collection and
analysis, for investment prioritization and for formulation of three-year village development plans
(VDPs) in the target areas. These VDPs are then consolidated to form commune development plans.
A critical component of the LPP is the allocation of an indicative planning figure (IPF) or a fixed
amount of block grant to communes at the beginning of the LPP. The commune, through its
Commune Development Committee (CDC), reviews project proposals that are coming out of the
VDPs and makes decisions on the allocation of the IPF across villages on the basis of a set of multiple
criteria, such as the number of families, the number of female-headed households, and the amount of
support already being provided by NGOs and other organizations.
27.   The LPP process is long (I1 days per village) and the PRA is elaborate. Various studies
undertaken by an external evaluator and by the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) have raised
concerns about the duration of the LPP, arguing that it contributes to a lengthy project planning cycle
which takes an average of six months. Another concem is that the elaborate PRA process has stymied
participation during the planning process of villagers who found the exercise tedious and difficult to
understand. Many of the data obtained in the PRA are seldom used either by villagers or facilitators
for purposes of monitoring or poverty ranking.  Seila/CARERE2 is now in the process of
implementing a simplified LPP that eliminates many of the PRA tools and that shortens the duration
of village facilitation work to about three days.
28.   Facilitation and technical teams have focused on the production of plans and on ensuring the
technical quality of projects. However, they have neglected to build the capacity of VDCs to do
organizing work or to monitor the work of service providers. The facilitation teams have also been
unable to engage villagers in generating inter-village activities. Projects coming out of the LPP have
been predominantly village based. This has often defeated the purpose of commune level planning.
29.   Provincial Planning Process. The provincial planning process under the Seila/CARERE
involves the preparation of individual sector plans that are then consolidated into a provincial
development plan (PDP). The PDP is generally formulated in a set of articulated provincial goals and
objectives consistent with those of the SEDP. Sector plans are formulated, approved, and validated
through a consultative process under the PRDC. This process is coordinated by the provincial
department of planning. The number of sector plans per province ranges from 17 to 21. Originally,
technical assistance was focused on five key sectors supported by CARERE: agriculture, health,
education, women's affairs, rural development. But technical assistance has been extended to other
line departments which have requested participation in the hope that they could also get funding
assistance from CARERE. The PDP has evolved into a consultative process in which technical
departments, and provincial and district authorities, and more recently, communes, all share
information and coordinate operational activities. This coordination would ideally happen in
deconcentrated line ministries.



Page 48
30.   The PDP is not directly linked to a budgeting process. Lacking any clear funding
commitment, the PDP process is largely a pedagogical exercise. The provincial public investment
program (PPIP) of the PDP has therefore been a "wish list" of departmental projects, and the
document itself serves primarily as an instrument for local resource mobilization instead of a tool for
managing development activities. The proposed "Seila Investment Plan" (SIP) attempts to address the
issue of linking planning to budgeting. For example, an early draft of the 1999 SIP for Siem Reap
shows specificity in outputs and clear monitorable indicators and, in complete departure from the
PPIP, has an indicative budget for each specified output.
31.   The preparation of the SIP has implications on the technical capacity of the PRDC to appraise
project proposals and to monitor their implementation. The level of technical specificity involved in
the preparation of the document will require at least basic skills of evaluation techniques which many
members of the PRDC do not yet have. Another issue is the existence of monitoring systems in place
at the level of the province or commune to track the indicators that are specified in the SIP. At the
present time, the Seila/CARERE project does not yet have a fully functioning monitoring system, a
critical instrument in view of the pilot nature of the project. Finally, the SIP is limited to subprojects
funded by CARERE: unless it captures investments from other sources and becomes an integral part
of the PDP, it could seriously undermine the consultative process already established under the PDP
approach.
32.   The two planning systems are not integrated, nor are they are linked together to a national
planning system. While there has been attempt to integrate local plans with provincial development
plans through consultation with communes and sectors at the district level, there has not been an
agreement on a single approach for integration of both the process and the mechanism for the
allocation of resources. The national planning system and its PIP has not been fully developed to
accommodate inputs from lower levels of government. The Ministry of Planning, while willing to get
involved in provincial planning, lacks the institutional capacity and funding support necessary to
provide technical planning assistance to the provinces.
33.   Issues in rural development planning. It is premature to speak of a Seila planning "model"
when many of the elements are still in the process of being retested. The Seila/CARERE2 planning
approach is comprehensive and involves all levels of the rural development structures. This has
implications in terms of capacity building, technical assistance and, therefore, the administrative
overhead and overall sustainability of the system. It requires full-scale mobilization of the rural
development structure to manage the planning system and also a substantial investment of technical
assistance to support capacity building of local governments across all levels of the RDS. An
elaborate planning system also requires a substantial infusion of funds not only for subproject
financing but also for administrative overhead to make the planning machinery work. Provinces
which might plan to consider adopting the Seila/CARERE approach but which lack prior experience
in implementing or managing projects, such as in the Northeast, would likely require much more
investment in technical assistance and capacity building to catch up with the five Seila provinces
where exposure to development work started with CAREREI and many international NGOs in the
early 1990s.
34.   Planning capacity in the five Seila provinces is developing ahead of the national planning
capacity. While this situation may be advantageous to the provinces, the sustainability of the process
may be jeopardized in the iong run. When the national government does not have the capacity to
provide guidance or to articulate how relationships between levels should be organized, then local
governments will continue to be dependent on external support. Because of the complexity of the
process and its large-scale financing requirements, it will be a challenge to sustain the Seila/CARERE
planning superstructure in light of the limited institutional capacity and the constrained financial
resources of the national government. A scaled - down version of the planning and financing system



Page 49
and structure is more likely to be viable given the present institutional and financial capacities of the
RGC.
D. Decentralized rural development financing
35.   While local planning is generally promoted as a participatory and decentralized process,
funding allocation is more of a top-down process in Thich approval and disbursement of project
funding are generally handled from the center. The top- down approach is in part due to the
organizational structures and internal procedures of the funding agencies and in part because of the
lack of a reliable system for channeling funds in a decentralized manner. The present highly
centralized structure of public finance tends to reinforce this system of financing. Thus, many of the
organizations that adopt participatory planning processes, like GTZ and UNICEF, still maintain a top-
down approach in allocation of funds.
36.   Central-Local Government Relations. Cambodia today has a highly centralized form of
government that is reflected in administrative and fiscal relationships between local governments and
central government bodies. Local authorities are appointed and work under the direct supervision of
the Ministry of Interior. They carry out instructions from the center that generally relate to routine
activities like security matters and information gathering. Line ministries also operate in a highly
centralized manner, with provincial line departments reporting to and receiving instructions directly
from their respective line ministries.
37.   Local authorities do not have any revenue-expenditure decision- making authority. Under the
Organic Law of 1993, revenues collected by provinces, including those from local public enterprises,
are centrally pooled and under strict supervision of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).
This is in direct contrast to the previous system under which provinces were allowed to retain their
revenues and the central government had to depend on transfers from provinces. This former
arrangement, however, led to severe macroeconomic instability and resulted in the adoption of the
Organic Law in 1993. The present system has apparently restored macroeconomic balance but has
deprived provinces of discretionary power over revenues that could potentially have enabled them to
provide basic services to their communities.
37. The highly centralized nature of public finances is reflected in the composition and distribution
of regional public spending. This pattern belies the emphasis placed on rural development in the
SEDP. In 1996, the provinces received only 21 percent of the national government budget.
Provinces receive practically no public investment allocation from the national government. For
1994-1996, rural areas with more than three-fourths of the country's population received slightly
more than half of all the combined sources of development funds (Table 2). In contrast, Phnom
Penh with only 7.5 percent of the nation's population, obtained a disproportionate share of more
than two-fifths of all funds. This translated to a per capita expenditure for Phnom Penh that was
ten times higher in 1996 than those of all other provinces.



Page 50
Table 2: Distribution of Public Expenditure, by Region, 1994-1996
All Sources               Govemment 1/               ODAJNGO 2/
Share of % to  Per capita exp.   Share of % to    Per capita    Share of %  Per capita
total       (in riels)      total         exp.       to total     exp. (in
Year/Area                                                 (in riels)                 riels)
1994:
All provinces        38          56,639           19          14,371         57        42,269
Phnom Penh           52         354,261            11         18,836         66       335,424
Other Provinces      48          29,451           89          13,962         34        15,488
1995:
All provinces        44          79,214            21         16,369         59        54,241
Phnom Penh           47         446,324            10         20,516         66       425,808
Other Provinces      53          45,662            90         15,989         34        20,280
1996
All provinces        38          72,242            21         16,904         50        55,338
Phnom Penh           42         404,051            12         27,529         51       376,485
Other Provinces      58          45,212           88          16,039         49        29,173
1/ Includes external budget support
2/ Contribution of NGOs in 1995 is not included (CR 87.749 billion).
Basic source of data: World Bank, September 1998, Cambodia: Public Expenditure Review (draft).
39.    Fiscal Decentralization Reform.  A Provincial Budget Management Law passed on 10
February 1998, to be implemented in fiscal year 1999 in all provinces, provides for limited budget
and management decentralization to provinces and cities. Under the law, provinces and cities are
required to prepare their own budget. Provincial governors and city mayors will negotiate their
annual budgets directly with the MEF. Local governments are mandated to provide for certain local
services such as water supply, garbage collection, street lighting, and fire fighting; and to meet current
expenditures for salaries and wages of their employees as well as subsidies to districts, communes,
and villages. To pay for these local public services, provinces and cities are allowed to retain
revenues derived from certain types of taxes (land taxes, registration fees, and vehicle taxes) and
non-tax sources (user charges on electricity and water, market fees and rentals).
40.    For fiscal year 1999, the MEF expects that provinces will maintain an historical pattem of
expenditure levels estimated at 35 billion riels (about US$9.5 million) of which 20 billion riels will be
funded from provincial revenue sources with the balance funded by transfers from the central
government. According to the MEF, central government grants will be provided to fill the gap
between projected expenditure levels and retained local revenues. These grants will be determined on
the basis of historical expenditure-revenue patterns of individual provinces and cities. The present
distribution of grants appears to favor urban areas like Phnom Penh that are likely to have higher
expenditure  requirements.   The  MEF  has yet to  establish  guidelines  for its  system  of
intergovernmental transfers that would account for inequalities in revenue sources and at the same
time encourage provinces and cities to increase collection from current revenue sources and to devise
means of expanding their revenue bases.
41.    In reality, the Provincial Budget Management Law, 1998 does not provide much fiscal
autonomy because the power to decide on local tax rates and local tax bases still rests with the MEF.
The Law transfers only a small portion of revenue sources to local governments: less than 2 percent
of tax revenues and about 1.5 percent of total revenues. However, while the devolved revenues are
marginal relative to the expenditure responsibilities assigned to local governments, this transfer is an



Page 51
important initial step in paving the way for local governments to assume responsibilities for service
provision in their areas and gradually to become more accountable to their constituents. The
implementation of the Law in 1999 opens a window of opportunity for advancing fiscal
decentralization despite limitations of local governments in revenue collection and problems of
transparency and accountability.
42.   The impending election of commune councils that is expected to take place in late 1999 will
be a major step towards forming genuine local governments that are directly elected by the people.
Under the proposed Commune Administration Law currently being drafted by the Ministry of
Interior, communes would be given formal responsibility to define the development needs of their
communities. This would also have guaranteed access to regularized sources of finance from tax
revenues and transfers from the national budget. If this law is implemented, a three-tier system of
distinct administrative-budgetary units will be created  (central government, provinces, and
communes) with major implications for the relationship between these units particularly with respect
to assignment of responsibilities and allocation of resources.
43.   Experiment in Intergovernmental Transfer. The Seila/CARERE financing system is an
attempt to provide a regularized form for intergovernmental transfers through block grants or what is
called an indicative planning figure (IPF) for local government (communes). It provides funding
directly to provincial governments for two major types of decentralized development activities. The
first type of funding is to sectoral project activities, and the second type is channeled to communes
and villages through the Local Development Fund (LDF) which is managed by the PRDC. Two
issues are evident in the current system. The current IPF allocation is based on a formula that rewards
communes with many villages. Another issue is that, although a commune IPF is expected to
encourage inter-village activities, some CDCs cling to a one project per village principle, which
defeats the purpose of a commune level IPF.
44.   Decentralized Financing System. The present Seila/CARERE system of financing involves
the release of sector funds directly to implementing agencies (generally to line departments but also to
NGOs) and to the PRDC for the LDF through subproject agreements. In both cases, CARERE
provincial offices exercise strict financial control and supervision. This is expected to change in
April, 1999. At the provincial level, the PRDC will exercise financial control and management of
decentralized funds that will accrue to sectors and CDCs, with CARERE provincial offices providing
only an advisory role. The PRDC, through the provincial governor, will have power to authorize
commitments and payments on behalf of the sectoral departments and CDCs. At the national level, a
decentralized development fund (DDF) facility has been proposed to consist of several special
accounts with funds from various external sources including grants and loans. The DDF will be
managed by a bureau of the Council for the Development of Cambodia (CDC), under authority of the
Seila Task Force. The DDF bureau will facilitate the monitoring and transfer of decentralized funds to
the Seila provinces.
45.   Issues on decentralized financing. An important aspect of the restructured provincial
financing system is the transfer of responsibility for financial management and control from
CARERE provincial offices to PRDCs through the provincial governors and the Executive
Committees (Excom) of the PRDCs. The capacity of the PRDCs is a critical issue. While the PRDCs
have been evolving into effective forums for coordinating development activities in the provinces,
their role in financial management is poorly developed. The technical training for the PRDCs in
financial accounting and management began in earnest only towards the end of 1997. The PRDC
finance units are usually understaffed with only one or two personnel who are undertrained in
comparison to those in the LPP units. It would be prudent to develop the skills of the PRDC finance
unit staff and to test the financial systems to assure that they are fully operational before
responsibilities for financial management and control are fully devolved to the PRDCs.



Page 52
46.   The proposed provincial financing system recentralizes commitment and payment authority
to the PRDCs away from the sector departments and CDCs . Although this is consistent with
Seila/CARERE policy of aligning its procedures with MEF regulations, it reduces flexibility and
could potentially affect the operational efficiency that a more decentralized financing system provides
to sectors and CDCs. An important feature of the proposed system is the direct payment mechanism
to private service providers working on contracts from sectors and CDCs. Under this new system, the
PRDC Excom pays contractors and suppliers directly upon request of the sectors and CDCs, subject
to certain documentary evidence and verification. The proposed new process could create delays in
fund releases and other operational bottlenecks unless mechanisms are put in place to ensure
flexibility, proper accountability, and transparency in the PRDC Excom transactions.
47.   The proposed DDF is similar to the classic Special Account prescribed by the MEF, with the
exception that there is a DDF bureau that provides clearing and monitoring services for the transfer of
funds between special accounts and the PRDC. The facility does not consolidate into one single
financial system funds from other sources such as CAIRERE and the national budget appropriation.
In effect, the proposed national financing system under the Seila/CARERE2 project is a multiple
accounts system covering DDF, CARERE and the national budget appropriations account.
48.   A DDF bureau that serves as a clearing-house between the MEF and PRDCs could potentially
delay transfers of funds to the provinces.  It is crucial to specify the role of the DDF and its
operational relationship with MEF and with PRDCs. It is also important to determine the oversight
role of the SEILA Task Force over transactions between the DDF and PRDCs.
49.   Devolving financial responsibility to local governments is crucial in making decentralization
work. It is, however, difficult for a donor agency to take on this task, particularly if it risks treading
on sensitive issues of governance like accountability and transparency. Addressing the issue of
accountability and transparency requires devising an incentive structure that rewards good work and
sanctions bad performance. Issues like these would be better tackled through a government reform
agenda. Any such agenda requires the active involvement of relevant national government agencies
to ensure their commitment to implement it.
E. Conclusions and Recommendations
(51)   Variations in initial conditions across and within provinces in Cambodia may not allow for
wholesale adaptation of the Seila/CARERE approach to decentralized rural development. But
some of its elements and those of other programs such as those of the GTZ, PRASAC and
CASD could be adapted in designiing future rural development programs, as follows.
(a)   Institutional framework:
Working through the rural development structure provides an opportunity for
developing the capacity of local authorities in planning, implementation, and financing, and
ensures the long-term sustainability of development efforts. Participation of communities has
been facilitated through village leadership or through VDCs or other forms of association,
such as pagoda committees, credit associations, and women and youth groups. Commune
level planning and financing that encourage inter-village activities is more efficient than
focusing on single village projects and could have potential benefits arising from economies
of scale. It is important, however, to provide proper training for facilitation workers in
making villagers understand the advantages of undertaking commune level activities. PRDCs
could also potentially provide an effective forum for coordinating development activities
between local governments and line departments, and with an expanded representation,



Page 53
between governments and civil society, to ensure effective delivery of services to the rural
population. The PRDCs could facilitate a subnational level dialogue among donor agencies
and service providers on how best to target the poor in their rural areas.
(b)    Lead agency in rural development.
In a number of rural development programs for international agencies such as
GTZ/PDP, CASD/UNICEF, and PRASAC/EU, the MRD serves as a counterpart agency.
However, the MRD, as the lead agency and coordinator of rural development planning and
development, has not been able to effectively assert its role for a host of reasons, including
lack of capacity and unclear government policy. While the MRD has a mandate for
coordinating rural development, its roles and responsibilities have not been clearly defined
and articulated. In order to become effective in its role as coordinator, the MRD will have to
take deliberate steps to reorient its staff and functions from those of an implementer to those
of a strategist. At the macro level, the MRD could serve as a policy coordinator and strategist
for rural development, especially with the burgeoning of uncoordinated rural development
programs. At the subnational level, the MRD, through its provincial department, could play
an important role in coordinating local development activities and could provide technical
support and advice to the RDS through PRDCs.
(c)    Linking planning and financing.
A decentralized rural development program can only be effective if both planning
and financing functions are devolved to lower levels of governments. Decentralized
financing, in the form of a fixed amount of block grant funds allocated to the communes in a
transparent manner for a multi-year planning cycle, drives the local planning process. The
experience of Seila/CARERE shows that there is more ownership and accountability if local
governments are given the responsibility to select projects and to make hard choices on
allocating funds among competing needs. But the responsibility of planning and financing
decisions can only be fully devolved to local governments as their capacity to perform these
functions improve.
(d)    PRA as a planning instrument
There is commonality across rural development programs on the use of the PRA as
an instrument for planning and community mobilization. The PRA, however, has to be
applied judiciously to strike a balance between process and output. The use of a too
demanding or comprehensive set of PRA tools could stymie active participation of villagers
and produce large amounts of information that are too complex for villagers or facilitators to
understand and use. Application of more advanced PRA methods should be applied
progressively, along with improvement in the capacities of facilitators and familiarity of
villagers.
(e)    Local Contribution
Villagers have demonstrated a high sense of ownership and willingness to maintain
infrastructure and facilities when they are required to contribute to the financing of a project.
They are willing to contribute as much as 30 to 50 percent of the project costs as long as they
are kept informed about their responsibilities and the terms and applications of their financial
contributions. In order to ensure sustainability, it is important at the initiation of the project to
inform villagers of their responsibilities and to ensure transparency in the assessment and use
of their contributions.



Page 54
(f)    Scale of activities.
A less complex and phased adaptation of a decentralized planning and financing
system is a more workable alternative approach for many local governments with limited
capacities like those in the Northeast. While ideal, a full-scale mobilization of the entire RDS
for planning and implementation may not be a tenable approach unless there is also a
guarantee of massive infusion of funds for capacity building and subproject financing. Even
so, any complex and comprehensive system that runs ahead of national capacity is likely to
require continuous large-scale infusion of funds from external sources.
(g)    Poverty alleviation strategy
Many of the rural development programs have poverty alleviation as their key
objective. But few have clearly articulated and specified strategies to help the poor. Projects
in impoverished and remote areas and special projects for the poorest seem to have worked
best. The least effective have been those interventions that assist the entire community
without any focus on the poor. Careful design of subproject intervention must include
reliable baseline information for targeting the poor effectively. Full understanding by the
village leadership and implementing agency about the special nature of the project are also
key to success in implementing poverty alleviation programs.
(h)    Monitoring system and regular evaluation.
Many of the rural development programs do not have a monitoring system in place to
track progress or the use of inputs, processes, and outputs. Such systems are necessary to
assure learning and midcourse correction before the same designs and activities are replicated
in other areas. This instrument is therefore very important to have in place before any project
begins to operate. Regular evaluation of project impacts and effects on beneficiaries is also
crucial to know if project objectives are being achieved and if this not happening, to assess
whether and how changes might be made.
(i)    Phasing and sequencing.
The provision of technical assistance and the transfer of decentralized responsibilities
to lower levels of government should be phased and properly sequenced to ensure maximum
results in developing capacities and responsibilities. This is particularly important for the
local development planning process and the transfer of financial responsibilities to the RDS.
51.   Coordination of donor activities in rural development programs is critical. The Seila Task
Force has the mandate to coordinate policy discussions on decentralized rural development. It is
however, limited to the Seila/CARERE experience. The national government should therefore take
direct responsibility to provide a coherent rural development strategy in light of the proliferation of a
host of uncoordinated rural development programs sponsored by donor agencies and NGOs. A
central forum should be formed that is coordinated by a national government agency in charge of
rural development, along with key line ministries and representation from CDC, MEF and MOP,
donor agencies and NGOs. The forum should provide overall policy recommendations as part of a
framework for decentralized rural development programs. Coordination should include discussion of
policy issues that would lead to the formulation of coherent decentralized rural development strategies
including rationalization of training and capacity building of the RDS; share information on leaming
experiences; address implementation problems; and coordinate operational activities at the field level,
including geographic targeting and project interventions.



Page 55
Recommendations for NVDP
52.   Finally, some recommendations concerning the design and implementation of the NVDP:
a) Given the limited capacity in planning and financing of both local governments in the Northeast
and MRD, the NVDP may have to adapt a less complex decentralized planning and financing systems
and structures than that developed under Seila/CARERE2. Under a decentralized system, both
planning and financing should be devolved to lower levels of government, with responsibilities
progressively expanded as their capacities to perform these functions improve. Emphasis should be
placed on commune level planning and financing that encourage inter-village activities rather than
focusing on single village projects. Decentralized financing would require allocation of a fixed
amount of block grants to communes in a transparent manner for a multi-year planning cycle to
ensure ownership and accountability of local governments. Chart I suggests how the planning and
financing systems may look like for the second phase of NVDP.
b) The role of MRD as facilitator and strategist of the NVDP needs to be clearly defined. At the
national level, it could provide overall policy guidance to the project through its provincial
departments. Under the second phase, its provincial departments could provide technical support and
advice to the PRDC in managing the local planning and financing systems.
c) The role of the PRDC in coordinating and managing the local planning and financing systems
should be specified. The PRDC could potentially provide an effective forum for coordinating
development activities between local governments and line departments to ensure effective delivery
of services to the rural population. It could also facilitate a subnational level dialogue among donor
agencies and service providers on how best to target the poor in the project areas of NVDP.
d) NVDP should have a clearly articulated poverty alleviation strategy. This has to begin with a
clearly defined selection criteria for target villages and communes, and subsequently, in the design of
subproject interventions. The orientation of local leadership and the NVDP personnel about the
special nature of the project will also be helpful in ensuring its success.
e) NVDP should put in place a monitoring system before the commencement of the subprojects
investment phase, to assure learning and mid-term correction of the local development process (LDP)
before it is replicated in other areas and to track inputs and outputs of subproject interventions.
Regular evaluation of the NVDP should also be undertaken to assess project impacts and effects on
beneficiaries.
f) The use of PRA tools should be coincident with the capacity of LDP facilitators. A more elaborate
process can be progressively introduced as facilitators improve their capacity to understand and use
these tools and as villagers become more familiar with the process. The results of the pilot exercises
during the first phase will be crucial in informing the design of the LDP for the second phase.
g)    NVDP should adopt a policy that stipulates a certain amount of local contribution from
project beneficiaries. The experience of rural development projects in Cambodia indicates that
villagers demonstrate a high sense of ownership to maintain infrastructure and facilities when they are
required to contribute to the financing of a project. In order to ensure sustainability, it is important at
the initiation of the project to inform villagers of their responsibilities and to ensure transparency in
the assessment and use of their contributions.



Page 56
Chart 1: Possible Planning and Financing Schema for NVDP Phases II-III:
Level                         Planning                                                        Finan
National
National Policy
Overview.                                                           Special AccounttMEF
SEDP/Sectoral strategies                                            Release of provincial
of line ministries                                                  allocation to PIU
|                                          Gt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Withdrawal application
MRD/PMU
Advisory Committee/                                             Submits withdrawal
MRD: Provides overall                                           application and fmnancial
guidance to NVDP                                                reports
Provincial               PlU/PDRD                                                        PIU/PDRED
Provides technical assistance                                   Submits request &
to PRDC in planning and                                         financial reports to PMU
fmnancing                                                       Replenish imprest
account of PRDC
PROC
Coordinates with line                     Provincial               PRDC
departments & other                       allocation               Transfers fuods to CDCs
service providers; allocates                                       and VDCs; monitors use of
comnmune grants                               1                    fimds
L-evel              CDCs
Aggregate village action                 Block grants               CDCs
plans; review & select                   to communes                 Transfer funds to
project proposals and                                                VDCs/Pay to
allocate funds to villages                                           suppliers/contractors
VDCs                                                               VDCs
Collect data; identify                                             Pay to
needs; formulate action                                            contractors/suppliers



Page 57
Selected References:
Antlov, Hans. 1977. "Achievements and Experiences of Rural Development Aid to Cambodia".
Report to Sida/NATUR (Sweden). July.
Biddulph, Robin et al. 1998. "Independent Monitoring and Evaluation of CARERE support to the
Seila Local Planning Process, 1998". Final Report. August. Pbnom Penh, Cambodia.
Chim Charya et al. 1998. Learning from Rural Development Programmes in Cambodia. Working
Paper #4. June. CDRI/MRD. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Romeo, Leonardo. 1998. "Seila/CARERE and the Emerging Model of Decentralized Rural
Development (DRD) in Cambodia". September. New York: UNCDF.
Royal Government of Cambodia. CDC/CRDB. 1999. "Consultative Group Paper". January. Phnom
Penh, Cambodia. January. Draft.
Royal Government of Cambodia. Ministry of Planning. 1998. A Poverty Profile of Cambodia-1997.
May. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Royal Government of Cambodia. Ministry of Planning. 1996. First Socio-Economic Development
Plan, 1996-2000. February. Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Smoke, Paul. 1997/1998. Various consultancy reports on the LDF. New York: UNCDF.
Soparth, Pongquan. 1998. "Commune Development Committee IPF Allocation Process". Monitoring
and Evaluation Mission. April. AIT/UNCDF Desk. Bangkok, Thailand.
Swift, Peter. 1998. "Social Fund for the Kingdom of Cambodia: Beneficiary Assessment". July.
Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Teng You Ky et al. 1998. " UNICEF/Community Action for Social Development. Learning from
Rural Development Programmes". Case Study Seven. August. CDRI. Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Draft
report.
UNDP/CARERE. 1998. "Restructuring the Seila Financial System, 1999-2000: Flow of Funds".
November. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
UNDP/CARERE. 1998. "CARERE2 Mid-Term Evaluation Report". May. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
World Bank. 1998. Cambodia: Public Expenditure Review. Volume II. Main Report (DRAFT).
September. PREM. East Asia and Pacific Region. Washington, D.C.
Final revision: 1/20/1999/LNP






IBRD 27955
10'.                                                                                                                                                      CAMBODIA
LAO    PE    LE'S  DEM. REP.              e  I
THAILAND                                                                                                                                  NORTH EAST VILLAGE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1999-2002
PREAH
T. 6-9kk            ',BANTEAY                                                        VIHEAR
5iEM REAP                                                                                                                        T. OW Nhq'I,                      PROJECT PROVINCES
IMEANCHEY
M
-A,
PROJECT OFFICE
SELECTED CITIES
RAfANAKfRl                                     0
Si
-Fih- 1),            - -'                                    7                                                                             h                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAIN ROADS
Si.. R..p
RAILROADS
RIVERS
CULTURAL HERITAGE SrFES
/4                                                                                                                               MONDUiVIR!
BATTAMBANG                                                                                                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
K..p
p,,
PURSAT
..........
K.                                                                                                                              Th.         -f-,            -d   .0-
lmpllzll lZ pllyz.11lllp.1'l11llYl Tt"lilll
KI                                                                                                                                                    u,,h b-d.6-
12 - L_
CHH
CHINA
PRFY
PENH j
VENG                                                                                    z
K"
r.y V-9                                      VIETNAM                                                    !7
i.                                                                                                           LAO
KOH KONG
RDR
kO                                                                                                                                                              .... ..... .  .
K     L
SPEU
T.k..                                                  8h                                                                 THAILAND
ol at]d                                                                                                                                                                                         VA
', 't RI
El4
KAMF                                                                                                                                   k2d
IOT                                                                                                                                                     CAMBODIA
fl
ro
4-                                                                                                                        2
25             Ml"::
APRIL 1 999



