                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 32638

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (IDA-32160 TF-25393)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION

                                  TO THE

                          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                 FOR THE

                NORTHEAST VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               June 14, 2005




RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = US$

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                  FY 2000    FY 2005

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CC      Commune Council
CDC     Commune Development Committee
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DDC     District Development Committee
IDA     International Development Association
KDP     Kecematan Development Program
LDF     Local Development Facilitators
LDP     Local Development Planning
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MRD     Ministry of Rural Development
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NVDP    Northeast Village Development Project
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PBC     Planning and Budgeting Committee
PDRD    Provincial Department of Rural Development
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PPIU    Provincial Project Implementation Unit
PRA     Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRDC    Provincial Rural Development Committee
RGC     Royal Government of Cambodia
SEDP    Socioeconomic Development Plan
VAP     Village Action Plan
VDC     Village Development Committee



                             Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                            Country Director   Ian C. Porter
                            Sector Manager     Mark D. Wilson
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Louise F. Scura

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         CAMBODIA
                  NORTHEAST VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       33

Project ID: P058841                                                  Project Name: KH-NORTHEAST VILLAGE
Team Leader: Louise F. Scura                                         TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: KH-NORTHEAST VILLAGE                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32160; TF-25393
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (22%); Irrigation and drainage (22%); Roads and
                            highways (22%); Central government administration (17%);
                            Sub-national government administration (17%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Small and medium
                            enterprise support (S); Rural markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/1998                                     Effective: 07/01/1999                11/11/1999
     Appraisal: 11/06/1998                                         MTR:                             04/05/2003
      Approval: 05/18/1999                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CAMBODIA/MIN OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michele Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Louise F. Scura                                Christopher Redfern
ICR Primary Author:             Kent Helmers; Louise F. Scura


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The development objective of the Northeast Village Development Project (NVDP) was two-fold:
(a) to introduce decentralized, participatory poverty-focused rural development approaches in some of the
underserved areas of Cambodia; and (b) to gain experience in managing such programs needed by the
Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) for formulating and carrying out a cohesive national strategy for
rural development in the post-Project period.

3.1.2    The development objective was consistent with the priorities of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) in place at project appraisal in 1999, which included enhancing rural development and natural
resource management, improving human resources, reducing poverty and strengthening institutional
capacity. It was also consistent with the RGC first Five-Year Socioeconomic Development Plan (SEDP
1996-2000) which committed the government to decentralized rural development using a participatory and
bottom-up approach. The development issues of poverty alleviation and establishing decentralized
participatory rural governance systems have remained central objectives of the subsequent World Bank
CAS and RGC policies in effect during project implementation.

3.1.3    In pursuit of the development objective, the project was designed as a Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL) to help develop and test organizational arrangements, planning and implementation processes
and capacity building programs, focused on enabling local institutions to identify, plan, implement, monitor
and manage local development activities, with the intention to extend the application of these, once proven
effective, under a larger-scale follow-on project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The original objective was not revised. However, funding for the larger-scale follow-on project has
not been prioritized in the Bank's forthcoming CAS because of the very limited IDA allocation. While there
is a project on "Community Empowerment" included in the CAS for FY 07, it is not yet certain whether
this project will follow-up on NVDP.

3.3 Original Components:

The project has two components:

A.       Institutional Strengthening and Project Management (US$2,000,000.00; 32 percent of total cost
estimate at appraisal; actual expenditures US$ 1,780,000.00)

3.3.1    This component was designed to develop and strengthen the management and development
planning, implementation and monitoring skills of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), NVDP staff,
Provincial Department of Rural Development (PDRD) counterparts and Village Development Committee
(VDC) members needed to implement project activities at the national, provincial and village levels, as well
as to create capacity useful for future community development activities outside the scope of the NVDP.

3.3.2    The project planned to provide technical assistance for: (a) development and provision of training
programs, including formal training course, on-the-job-training, and study visits; (b) review, where
necessary, of subproject design and supervision of construction; (c) carrying out independent annual
financial audits; (d) establishing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the project; (e) conducting



                                                     - 2 -

participatory evaluation studies of project performance and impact, and documenting lessons learned; and
(f) preparing feasibility studies for a follow-on project.

3.3.3    The project design also envisaged providing the following support needed for the implementation of
the project: (a) rehabilitation of MRD and PDRD offices at the central, provincial and district levels; (b)
vehicles; (c) office/communications equipment; and (d) incremental operating costs.

B.       Participatory Planning and Investment (US$4,330,000.00; 68 percent of total cost estimate at
appraisal; actual expenditures US$3,590,000.00)

3.3.4    This component focused on 120 target villages in the four project provinces of Kampong Cham,
Kampong Thom, Kratie and Stung Treng. The core of the component was the Local Development Process
(LDP), which involved five key activities undertaken by VDCs facilitated by Local Development
Facilitators from MRD/PDRD. The six sub-components were: (a) target village selection; (b) VDC
formation and training; (c) Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA); (d) Village Action Plan (VAP)
preparation; and (e) sub-project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    While no changes were made to the outputs sought by the two components, there were three
important changes to the Participatory Planning and Investment Component, including expanding the
project area, simplifying the menu of sub-project types, and limiting the sub-projects to one in each of the
120 participating villages.

3.4.2    First, through agreement between the MRD, the Seila Program, and IDA, the NVDP project area
was expanded (through an Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of July 2000) to
include two additional provinces in the northwest of the country, Battambang and Banteay Meanchey.
US$500,000 under the Participatory Planning and Investment Component was reallocated for subproject
grants in these two provinces implemented through the Seila Program (N.B.The Seila Program, a national
effort to achieve poverty reduction through improved local governance, is the collective responsibility of an
inter-Ministerial body, the Seila Task Force, which members include the Ministry of Finance (MOF); the
Ministry of Planning (MOP), the Ministry of Interior (MOI), the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD),
the Ministry of Women and Veteran Affairs (MWVA),the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry
(MAFF), the Ministry of Water Resources and Meteorology (MWRM) and the Ministry of Social Affairs.
In 1996 Seila commenced operation in five provinces and 20 communes, and has gradually increased the
number of provinces and communes. Since March 2004, Seila is operating in all 24 provinces and
municipalities, and coordinates core donor funding and technical assistance for the Royal Government's
program of decentralization and deconcentration reforms.) The main impetus for this change was a
commitment made by from the World Bank Country Management Unit at the 2000 Consultative Group
meeting to mobilize donor resources needed for a Demobilization Pilot Project. To that end, the World
Bank persuaded several bilateral donors to redirect their existing funds, committed for rural development
activities in Battambang and Banteay Meanchey under the Seila Program, to pilot demobilization activities.
The bilateral donors and Government agreed to this arrangement provided that the activities for which the
funds were originally intended would not suffer, and the funding to these activities would be made up in
some manner by the World Bank. To facilitate the arrangement, a "reallocation" of $500,000 from the
NVDP Credit was proposed. An amendment to the DCA to add the two provinces was executed, since the
activities in the new provinces were essentially the same as in the original NVDP provinces, except that
implementation in Battambang and Banteay Meanchey would be through the Seila Program rather than
MRD as in the original four NVDP provinces. This arrangement was further justified on the grounds that


                                                      - 3 -

it would establish closer links and stimulate cross-learning between NVDP's village-level focus and the
Seila Program's commune-level focus. Given the geographic distance separating the original project area
from the added provinces, these synergies did not materialize. However, constructive linkages between
NVDP and Seila did subsequently develop in the original NVDP provinces.

3.4.2    Second, while the NVDP Project Appraisal Document (PAD) allowed for a fairly "open menu" of
choices for sub-projects, the VAPs of the 120 villages in the original four provinces clearly indicated
small-scale rural infrastructure, such as road, culvert, bridges, wells and latrines, as the top priorities. It
was therefore decided to focus on the provision of these types of priority subprojects rather than the more
diversified menu, which included agricultural extension and rural credit, envisaged in the PAD. This
narrower selection was more in line with the functional mandate of MRD/PDRDs and also simplified the
scope of the technical assistance and diversity of staffing complement and training needed for project
implementation.

3.4.3    Third, operating in remote provinces of northeast Cambodia during the early stages of project
implementation proved very difficult logistically. The key reasons were: (a) security concerns limited the
mobility of project staff so they could only travel during daylight hours and could not stay overnight
outside of the province town during the first two years of the project (1999 to 2001); (b) access to some
villages was both difficult and time consuming because of poor road conditions; and (c) the construction
season was, in practical terms, abbreviated to half the year because of heavy rains and record-level
flooding. Because these logistical constraints were not factored adequately into the original project
implementation schedule, even with a extension of the Credit's closing date by 26 months it was only
possible to complete one project cycle in the 120 project villages.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The project's Quality at Entry is rated as having been satisfactory overall. There are several key
elements of the project design which are individually rated as highly satisfactory. However, other elements
are considered less satisfactory.

3.5.2    The project design was appropriate for the context of rural Cambodia in 1999. The development
objectives were consistent with the CAS and RGC priorities for poverty reduction and decentralized rural
development. In terms of operational modalities of decentralized rural development, the formation of and
support for VDCs was consistent with participatory practices of a broad range of international NGOs
working in this sector in Cambodia. In terms of the types of subproject investments supported by NVDP,
these were consistent with the priorities identified by beneficiary communities themselves, and projects
commonly being implemented by other government and donor-funded rural development initiatives in the
field.

3.5.3    Within the context of the overall Quality at Entry rating, there are particular elements of the project
design that can be individually rated as highly satisfactory. First, the institutional arrangements were
appropriate. NVDP was designed to work within the then-prevailing rural development structures of the
country which connected village-level community organizations with the district and provincial rural
development structures of government. While the rural development institutional structures of the country
changed as a result of the 2002 Commune Council elections, VDCs remain the grassroots body to advocate
village development needs and lead the village engagement with the Commune Councils. Second, the
learning and innovation process employed under NVDP was very appropriate. The village-based
participatory process employed under NVDP is sound and can be accommodated within the emerging local
government administration under the newly elected Commune Councils. Third, the choice of project area



                                                      - 4 -

was appropriate. NVDP undertook decentralized rural development activities in areas and villages that
were under-serviced in terms of rural development support, including facilitating the formation and function
of elected VDCs and assisting with the development and implementation of village sub-projects in 120
villages over a five year period. And, fourth, the decentralized implementation arrangements, whereby the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was decentralized in the largest of the project provinces, Kampong
Cham, and Provincial Project Implementation Units (PPIU) were set up in the other project provinces, were
essential to facilitate frequent and consistent contact with the participating VDCs and communities during
all stages of project implementation. NVDP provided a design whereby MRD staff, for the first time in the
post-war era, engaged directly with local communities in rural development activities at the village level.

3.5.4    The transparent and competitive selection of MRD staff for participation in NVDP at project
start-up put in place a competent and committed NVDP core team within the MRD which served the
project well throughout implementation. Nonetheless, the project experienced a problem with sustaining
the engagement of the PDRD counterpart staff since the NVDP did not offer salary supplements paid out
of the Credit, as is common practice among other donor-funded projects in Cambodia. This is a broad
problem related to civil service reform with no easy solution, particularly in the short-term, and it affects all
Bank-funded projects in Cambodia not just NVDP.

3.5.5    Compliance with the Bank's policy on Involuntary Resettlement was satisfactory. No involuntary
resettlement was allowed under NVDP, but voluntary contributions of small amounts of land and other
assets were allowed under written agreements between the contributing households and VDCs. To avoid
the need for involuntary acquisition of land and other assets, no new roads or irrigation structures were
included as NVDP sub-projects. Rather the road and irrigation subprojects focused on rehabilitation/repair
of existing roads or irrigation structures. Land and tree losses to households associated with these
subprojects were small and were dealt with through voluntary contributions. No compensation was paid for
such voluntary contributions.

3.5.6    Compliance with OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples was satisfactory. The design phase of the NVDP
recognized that Upland Indigenous minority populations would be found in some villages within the project
area. However, information on the location and size of these minority populations was either very scarce or
nonexistent. It was envisaged that compliance with OD 4.20 would be ensured through the provision that
"Any project which may adversely affect the social and cultural identity of ethnic minority populations"
would be considered as activities outside the scope of the NVDP.

3.5.7    During implementation, some NVDP target villages, particularly those in Kratie and Stung Treng
provinces, were found to include mixed populations of ethnic Khmer and upland minorities (including Kuy
and Phnong) and NVDP activities were undertaken in those villages. Members of these upland minorities
were elected to VDCs of those villages, and projects were implemented using the normal local development
process, including the participation of upland minority villagers. There is no evidence that problems that
might harm indigenous upland minorities were encountered during the implementation of the NVDP.

3.5.8    There are other elements of the Quality at Entry that were clearly less satisfactory and caused
related delays in implementation. As the NVDP was one of the first LILs in the EAP Region, there seems
to have been some confusion about what aspects of design needed to be completed before effectiveness and
which could be left to implementation. Some basic operational aspects, such as the development and
adoption of the Project Implementation Manual, which included important elements such as the funds flow
arrangement for this decentralized project, as well as development of an M&E framework and baseline,
were left to be done during implementation.




                                                      - 5 -

3.5.9     Also, the original design seriously underestimated the logistical difficulties, the security limitations
and the high operating costs of implementing a decentralized project in remote provinces in northeast
Cambodia during the 1999-2001 timeframe. The significant constraints of the rainy season flooding on
construction of subprojects was not factored adequately into the original project implementation schedule.
These aspects were the chief contributors to the implementation delays which required the Credit's closing
date to be extended by 26 months.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     The outcome of the project, as a first phase LIL, is rated as satisfactory. Decentralized,
participatory, poverty-focused rural development approaches were successfully introduced, a first round of
village subprojects was successfully implemented in 120 underserved villages in four provinces of
Northeast Cambodia, and two additional provinces in the Northwest received subproject financing.
Experience in managing such programs needed by the RGC for formulating and carrying out participatory
rural development activities was gained, systematically documented and disseminated.

4.1.2     Participatory rural planning was successfully undertaken with local communities and subproject
investments were successfully implemented. The village-based participatory process employed under
NVDP was proved sound. A great deal has been learned by MRD/PDRD staff, VDCs and villagers in
encountering and substantially overcoming difficulties during the process of learning-by-doing bottom-up
participatory rural development.

4.1.3     Within the 120 target villages VDCs were elected, typically for the first time. About 40 percent of
the VDC members were women, and women appeared to have been active in the process. The VDCs were
successful in achieving good participation in the communities during the planning stage. The PRA process
was tested successfully, village-level PRAs were completed, and VAPs were formulated according to
priorities of villagers, which still guide the villages' development priorities. Each community and its VDC
received training and facilitation and participated in all stages of the participatory Local Development
Process. Villagers themselves participated in subproject implementation including the bidding process,
supervision of subproject implementation and subproject monitoring and evaluation. Each village made
their its contributions to subprojects in terms of cash and labor.

4.1.4     The subprojects were completed to a satisfactory technical standard in most villages (exceptions
being several earth road projects which only lasted one rainy season). Operations and Maintenance
Committees were organized in participating villages, and the sub-projects were receiving ongoing
maintenance by communities using the balance of the original cash contribution made by the village to the
subproject to buy materials, as well as additional labor contributions at the time the maintenance is done.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management

4.2.1     The project outcome for this component is rated as satisfactory. A multi-volume Operational
Manual, including Technical Guidelines on Subproject Implementation, Operations and Maintenance
Management, was developed, tested and revised during project implementation based on lessons learned
during implementation. The lessons learned in the LDP were documented in detail and disseminated
through National and Provincial level workshops. An M&E system was in place and was producing



                                                        - 6 -

reliable information on subproject performance, and two rounds of M&E training of the PPIU staff and
villagers in all 120 target villages were completed.

4.2.2    An extensive training program for NVDP staff, PDRD officials and participating VDCs and
villagers was developed, including detailed training manuals, and was implemented with good results.
MRD staff, PDRD counterpart staff, VDC members and villagers in project villages almost universally
reported learning a great deal from participation in the local development process and project
implementation under NVDP. The training topics included: (a) VDC formulation; (b) VDC functions and
responsibilities; (c) LDP process; (d) procedures for PRA and VAP preparation; (e) subproject selection
and preparation; (f) community-managed bidding; (g) contract management and field supervision; (h)
participatory M&E of impact of sub-project activities; and (i) transparent village fund management. In
addition, Water Use and Hygiene Education was completed, including training of trainers at the PIU as
well as direct training in the 50 villages with latrine or well subprojects. Operations and Maintenance
Committees were formed and trained in all participating villages.

4.2.3    In addition to the formal training, NVDP staff took a study tour to Indonesia to facilitate an
exchange between staff of NVDP and the World Bank-financed Kecamatan Development Program (KDP).
In addition, a total of 87 VDC representatives (30 from Kampong Cham, 20 from Kampong Thom, 22
from Kratie and 15 from Stung Treng) participated in organized cross-visits during which the VDC
members had the opportunity to exchange information and experiences on the LDP process and on
subproject identification, implementation and management.

4.2.4    Under NVDP, 9 district offices (2 in Stung Treng, 2 in Kratie, 2 in Kampong Thom, and 3 in
Kampong Cham); 3 PPIU offices (one each in Stung Treng, Kratie and Kampong Thom); and 1 PIU office
(Kampong Cham) were built to satisfactory design standards, equipped, and turned over to the
participating PDRDs. NVDP also supported some minor renovations to the MRD office in Phnom Penh,
which housed the project liaison office. The vehicles and other equipment acquired under the project have
mostly been turned over to the participating PDRDs, with a few items going to MRD.

4.2.5    Instead of a feasibility study for a follow-on project, NVDP undertook an assessment of future
village-level engagement in support of improved local governance in the context of the recent
decentralization reforms. The assessment took fully into account the institutional arrangements and
procedures emerging from the recent decentralization reforms (including the appropriate role and status of
VDCs in the newly-decentralized local development planning process and its relationship to the
Commune/Sangkat Council), and drew on the lessons of NVDP and other MRD-led village-level initiatives,
experiences of other ministries and NGOs at the village level in Cambodia, and applicable lessons from
other country experiences, such as Indonesia. To this end, the NVDP teams conducted field work in
provinces of Preah Vihear, Mondolkiri and Rattanakiri. In addition, a report was prepared on appropriate
modalities for future village-level engagement.

B. Participatory Planning and Investment Component

4.2.6    Target Village Selection. The NVDP village targeting process is rated as satisfactory, in a context
where village-level poverty data was scarce, on the basis of the effort employed, the use of objective criteria
and the extensive consultation undertaken with relevant stakeholders (N.B. The scarcity and limitations of
poverty data for the project area are described in Helmers K., 1998, Preliminary Social Assessment of the
Northeast Rural Development Project, World Bank/MRD, Phnom Penh. 120 villages from 34 communes of
12 districts in 4 provinces covering a population of 113,444 were selected as pilot target villages. A good
summary of the village targeting process as well as all the Local Development Process sub-components is


                                                       - 7 -

found in the NVDP 2004 Local Development Process Lessons Learned document.) Initial NVDP village
and commune target selection was undertaken in the design phase in two workshops held in Kompong
Cham province in August and September 1998. Village selection was made step-wise (by selecting poorer
districts then communes then villages) by four provincial PDRD teams. The four PDRD teams worked with
facilitators using a number of tools (trend lines, seasonal calendars, resource maps and poor community
needs identification) and through consultation with district, commune and village authorities and NGOs to
determine village targets based on agreed poverty criteria. In 2000, a second round of village selection
"revalidation" was undertaken in order to update village data and to cluster village selection given field
logistical considerations.

4.2.7    The following impressions on targeting were gained from the field work carried out by the ICR
mission in sample of twelve of the 120 project villages in three of the four project provinces. The target
villages visited were typically infrastructure poor, lacking basic community roads and wells which the
subprojects addressed. It was further observed that substantial road networks had been developed in the
target districts, mostly after the NVDP village targeting process, which allowed for higher-level
connections of the village-level roads provided through NVDP. It was clear that proportions of households
within target villages, ranging from a significant minority to a majority, were income poor and struggling at
times to have enough income to meet even basic needs on a daily basis. At the same time, villages appeared
to vary widely in terms of household assets, including the quality of housing and the quality and quantity of
agricultural land resources. Some villages seemed to be medium or better in asset wealth compared to
villages in some other provinces of Cambodia.

4.2.8    VDC Formation and Training. The election and training of the VDC in each village is rated as
satisfactory. This was a key initial activity of the NVDP, and involved the Local Development Facilitators
(LDF) from the NVDP PIU and PPIU and PDRD staff training villagers about VDC functions and
responsibilities, conducting voter education, assisting candidates to stand, conducting the elections, and
monitoring the vote count and appointment of VDC members. In 80 of the 120 villages VDCs were formed
by NVDP for the first time and, in the remaining villages, existing VDCs were reconstituted to conform to
the NVDP guidelines. Lessons were learned during the election process and improvements were made with
experience. The VDCs were launched as elected nonpolitical civil society institutions with a key defined
role in village development. (N.B. A key NVDP document on VDC issues is Knudsen, C.H., 2004,
Appropriate Village Level Interventions Study Final Report, NVDP/MRD Phnom Penh.)

4.2.9    ICR mission meetings with VDCs and villagers enabled a number of observations concerning trust
and relationship-building between VDCs and villagers. This process is fundamentally important in the
Cambodian context. Indications were that the VDCs were indeed freely elected with broad village
participation. Relationships between villagers and VDC members in the meetings were typically observed
to be cordial and friendly. It was common for villagers (including women) to disagree or express
differences with VDC members' opinions or statements in meetings if they thought they were in error or
wanted to make a different point. VDC members for their part were quite open in recalling difficulties in
working with villagers such as collecting cash or labor contributions from them. VDC members also
highlighted that trust-building between themselves and villagers had taken time and had often presented
some initial difficulties with some villagers earlier in the project cycle.

4.2.10 It was clear that villagers had elected talented and quite dedicated community members to their
VDCs and that the VDCs were generally well respected by villagers. In terms of broader issues of trust and
relationship-building, a further observation was that the relationships between the VDCs and the
government appointed Village Chiefs (Mae Phum) were often cordial and close. The VDC and Village
Chief frequently worked together in close collaboration on local affairs in practice. Moreover, it was clear


                                                       - 8 -

that NVDP staff had generally made good relationships with VDC members and villagers alike. They were
well known and liked in the villages in which they had worked over a long period.

4.2.11 VDC members received training and facilitation to develop a wide range of skills. Training was
given to all VDC members for all phases of the local development process. VDC members typically highly
valued this contribution to their personal development and to their capacity to facilitate village
development. While the training and learning VDC activities took their time, this was typically viewed as a
very worthwhile experience. Moreover, VDC members expressed great appreciation for the many skills
they learned and the positive aspects of the experiences with the NVDP. They felt they had learned a great
deal, and that these skills gave them a much greater insight into village development problems and had
improved their capacities to address those problems themselves.

4.2.12 The main drawback to VDC training was that while they had learned a lot of new skills they had
only practically used them once during their participation in one complete cycle of the local development
process involving the implementation of one subproject. Since they had not used some of these acquired
skills since then, VDC members could not all clearly explain the skills they had learned in an interval of up
to three years earlier, indicating that the capacity would not likely remain if not used further. However,
when probed if they could remember those skills, by going back to their own records of what they had done
many felt that they could remember the particular skills they had learned and use them again. However,
they often felt that the presence of facilitators would again be of benefit to ensure a good quality result in
future repetitions of the local development process.

4.2.13 Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA). PRA work is rated as satisfactory. VDC members and
villagers conducted a PRA in each village over a three-day period under LDF facilitation. In many villages
the NVDP conducted the first PRA process undertaken by the village. Women and poorer village members
gained understanding and greater confidence expressing their situation and needs within the village.

4.2.14 A review of the PRA guidelines by the ICR mission indicates that they are useful instruments for
the participatory development of a VAP. (N.B. PRA Guidelines were reviewed from the NVDP 2003
Operations Manual Volume I: Local Development Process. Also reviewed were the PRA comments in the
NVDP 2004 Local Development Process Lessons Learned document. Actual content of the 120 village
PRAs were not reviewed as they are each 30-50 page documents in Khmer language only.) Several
different tools were commonly used (resource map, Venn diagram, service map, seasonal calendar, social
census, problem tree and matrix ranking). The PRA process was adapted and improved with experience
and a number of valuable lessons were learned. Some difficulties were experienced with PRA tools and
processes. The major drawbacks experienced with the PRA process included the amount of time it took for
participation (particularly if not scheduled in relation to busy periods in the village), start-up building of
understanding of PRA conceptual issues by villagers and VDC members, and difficulties with the design of
some PRA tools (in particular the Social Census Tool). These have been recorded, along with suggestions
for improvements in the 2004 NVDP Lessons Learned document.

4.2.15 The 2004 NVDP Lessons Learned document highlighted that the PRA process taught valuable
skills in development problem analysis and contributed to a sense of ownership of village development
problems among villagers and VDC members. Findings of the ICR Mission generally substantiate this.
While villagers and VDC members could not recall clearly all the detailed steps of the PRA process which
occurred two or three years ago, they were able to recall some PRA tools clearly. With some prompting,
villagers and VDC members mostly could remember the PRA as a whole. Most importantly, they could
remember the main reason for undertaking the PRA, as a means to develop their VAP. Indeed, they did not
distinguish the PRA from the process of developing the VAP.


                                                       - 9 -

4.2.16 Many villagers, and particularly VDC members, rated the PRA as an important or very important
exercise. Reasons given included that the PRA process gave them a much broader and in-depth view of the
development problems confronted by the village and highlighted to them the diversity of circumstances and
situations confronted by different groups within the village (such as women and the poor). They also
highlighted the inclusiveness of village members in the PRA process as very worthwhile and felt that a
VAP arising from the PRA process was of much better quality and had a far stronger base in the
community than village development priorities selected exclusively by the village leadership.

4.2.17 Village Action Plan (VAP) preparation. The VAP preparation is rated as satisfactory. The VAP,
the plan of the village to address priority needs identified during the PRA, was formulated during a village
workshop by VDC members and other village representatives (respected elders, teachers, Village Chief
with attention to gender balance) in a group of 15-20 people with initial facilitation by NVDP staff. The
VAP output was a statement of the goal and mission of the VDC and the identification and prioritization of
subprojects to address priority needs of the village, based on PRA outputs. Criteria for subproject
prioritization included the total number and percentage women beneficiaries. The top five proposed
subprojects were ranked in priority in the workshop and listed along with their related objectives. Other
subprojects were listed but not prioritized.

4.2.18 The VAP was formulated on the basis of identified village needs rather than on the basis of what
subprojects could be supplied by NVDP alone. The concept was that the VAP would also be used to seek
assistance from other development agencies as well as from NVDP.

4.2.19 The 2004 NVDP Lessons Learned document highlighted a number of positive aspects of the VAP
process. These included being a grass roots participatory and holistic planning mechanism; the formulation
of a collective vision of village development; providing direction and raising aspirations for progress;
enhancing local ownership of development planning; and providing a mechanism to revive collective action
and resource mobilization within Cambodian rural communities. The VAP process further developed the
capabilities and confidence of the VDC to plan village development.

4.2.20 The 2004 NVDP Lessons Learned document also highlights some areas for improvement in the
VAP process. In particular it was felt that village subproject prioritization should be incorporated into the
preceding PRA phase involving a broad spectrum of villagers rather than being undertaken separately and
subsequently by the smaller group involved in the VAP process.

4.2.21 The ICR mission village meetings provided further insights concerning the VAP process. The
VDCs were clearly able to recall the VAP and list the top five priorities for their village. There was a sense
that the quality of their VAPs were good and that they represented a valid list of development priorities to
pursue based on a process of village consensus. In each case, the VDC felt confident in using this plan as
the basis for project selection into the future. In the vast majority of the villages it was found that the VAP
was further being used as the basis for submitting village development priorities to the Commune Councils
during the Commune Development Planning Process.

4.2.22 Of the 113 NVDP villages with VDC representatives on the Commune Council Planning and
Budgeting Committee, all villages put forward essentially the same priorities as were in the VAP for
inclusion in the Commune Development Plan. In all of these cases, the VDC was successful in getting
these priorities included in the Commune Development Plan. However, most villages have not yet received
funding from the Commune/Sangkat Fund for these projects due to limited funding allocations per
commune of about $8,000 to $10,000 per year. Nonetheless, now that they are included in the Commune


                                                       - 10 -

Development Plan, they may be funded through the C/S Fund in subsequent years or from other sources
through District Integration Workshops.

4.2.23 A further insight into the VAP was that it was considered to be still valid following the meeting of
one of their five VAP priorities by an NVDP sub-project. The common attitude seemed to be that the VAP
would only require updating after all five priorities of the existing VAP had been fulfilled. Moreover, one
of the five village priorities might still remain in place where the needs of the village for that type of
sub-project could only be partially fulfilled under NVDP funding. For example, if an NVDP subproject in
road rehabilitation was insufficient to cover all roads rehabilitation seen as necessary for the village, this
priority remained in the VAP.

4.2.24 A limitation to the utilization of the VAP to achieve village development goals was the common
lack of confidence and awareness among VDCs about using the VAP to actively approach other NGOs and
service providers outside the NVDP and the Commune Development Planning Process. No VDCs reported
taking their unfulfilled VAP needs directly to the District Integration Workshops (rather than relying on the
Commune Council to do so on their behalf) and they were not clear on even their right to participate in this
forum. Only a few VDCs had been able to establish new projects with other NGOs outside of NVDP to
help meet their development aims, and hardly any had been proactive in approaching such agencies
themselves.

4.2.25 Sub-project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The 120 subprojects
implemented under the NVDP comprised 99 km of roads in 57 villages, 199 m of bridges in 9 villages,
2,880 m of irrigation schemes in 4 villages, 73 wells in 11 villages, and 5625 latrines in 39 villages. These
subprojects were implemented cost-effectively and resulted in substantial benefit to accruing to the target
villages.

4.2.26 The NVDP M&E system consists of a combination of a Monitoring and Reporting System
covering all villages, VDCs and sub-projects and a number of in-depth M&E related project reports. This
activity is rated as satisfactory. The Monitoring and Reporting System consists of village, VDC and
subproject data and M&E performance indicators. Values for the performance indicators were determined
through a participatory evaluation process. LDF facilitated the VDCs and villagers who themselves then
determined the rankings of project performance and enumerated the benefits of the project in each village.

4.2.27 The primary emphasis of the NVDP has been on establishing the local development process as well
as on subprojects. While the emphasis of the M&E system is mainly on subproject indicators, some M&E
indicators are directed at measuring aspects of the local development process such as indicators related to
VDC Strengthening, which include some indicators to track VDC participation levels for women and the
poor. The PRA and VAP steps in the local development process are monitored only to the extent of
recording completion dates.

4.2.28 Nonetheless, the LDP process was intensively monitored and the lessons learned from the process
were systematically documented in NVDP Lessons Learned documents and the process adjusted
accordingly. With hindsight, however, it would have been useful also to have more M&E indicators on the
local development process itself. On the VDC elections, the PRA and the VAP processes, such indicators
might have included the number and gender of participants in these activities and the ratings by villagers
and the VDC as to the quality and usefulness of these processes. Nonetheless, these data were recorded by
the LDF and are documented as part of the second component of the M&E system, which includes a
number of in-depth reports completed by NVDP as a means of documenting their experience. (N.B. These
reports include Helmers (1998) Preliminary Social Assessment, Knudsen (2004) Appropriate Village Level


                                                       - 11 -

Interventions/ VDCs, and NVDP 2004 Local Development Process Lessons Learned. Other documentation
(in Khmer) includes the 120 completed village PRA reports.)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    No economic analysis of the project or any of its components or activities was attempted during
appraisal, and no economic analysis was done as part of the ICR since there was not an adequate baseline
available.

4.3.2    The subprojects chosen by villagers were local infrastructure projects, including rehabilitation of
rural roads and related structures (bridges, culverts), construction of wells and latrines, and rehabilitation
of irrigation schemes. The principle economic benefits of the subprojects resulted from: (i) the
rehabilitation of rural transportation infrastructure and the subsequent savings in vehicle operating costs,
travel time and travel costs, increased access to employment (higher wages and earnings) and business
opportunities (higher prices for crops and increased total revenues); (ii) the rehabilitation and construction
of communal irrigation schemes that increased yields, irrigated area and cropping intensity; and (iii)
improvements in the supply of potable water and sanitation, resulting in time savings from water collection
and reduced incidence of water-borne illnesses. In addition, investments to support local communities other
institutional capacity building, as well as to strengthen decentralized and community-based decision
making, should facilitate better implementation of rural development programs, help foster the creation of
social capital, and strengthen the staff skills of implementing agencies at the local level.

4.3.3    As part of project M&E, no economic analysis was done to quantify or value these impacts.
However, information on subproject beneficiaries perception of benefits was collected and systematically
presented. Subproject beneficiaries themselves typically recognized these important and visible benefits
from these subprojects in their communities. Evidence for these high ratings of subproject benefits are
found in the subproject M&E reports and were confirmed to the ICR team in visits and community
discussions in a random sample of target villages.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    No financial analysis of the project or any of its components or activities was carried out during
appraisal. As the menu of subproject types was narrowed and there was no support under the project given
for micro-enterprise or other income generating activities, a financial analysis was deemed not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The institutional development impact is rated as modest. The locus of experience gained by the
RGC through the NVDP has been limited to MRD and PDRD staff, as well as the VDCs and others in
participating villages, involved in the project. However, more could not be reasonably expected from a
pilot-scale LIL. The broader institutional impacts were expected to come later with the larger-scale
follow-on project.

4.5.2    The most significant institutional development impact was strengthening VDCs and helping to
position the VDCs in relation to the newly-elected Commune Councils. While many CDD-type operations
have been criticized for using project-specific parallel structures and being competitive with local
governments, this is not the case with NVDP. NVDP was designed to work within the then-prevailing rural
development structure of the country, established under Decision No. 136 (December 1994) and
subsequently confirmed by Decision No. 02 (January 11, 1999), consisting of an entity at each of the



                                                      - 12 -

territorial sub-division levels: Provincial Rural Development Committees (PRDC); District Development
Committees (DDC); Commune Development Committees (CDC); and the VDCs. Under this structure, the
VDCs were formed through open election at the village level and the CDCs were composed of two
representatives, one man and one woman, from each VDC in the commune. The PRDCs were chaired by
the provincial governor and comprised representatives of key provincial departments of the line ministries.
Following the 2002 Commune Council (CC) elections, the CC replaced the CDC; the direct linkage
between the village and the commune was weakened because the CC stand for election on a party-list basis
and there is no direct representation of territorial villages in the CC as there was in the CDC.

4.5.3    As part of the decentralization reforms, the Interministerial Prakas on Commune/Sangkat
Development Planning calls for two "village authority" representatives from each village to be selected by
the CC to serve on the Commune Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC). As an interim measure for
the first mandate (first five-year term) of the CC, villages which already have VDCs (currently about 7,896
out of 13,629 villages or 58 percent of villages countrywide) are represented on the PBC by one
representative from the village authority (i.e., appointed Village Chief) and one representative from the
VDC, a man and a woman. The potential role for VDCs in other villages and the issue of whether VDC
representatives will form part of the PBC membership beyond the first mandate is to be clarified by
forthcoming instructions. This is part of the unfinished decentralization agenda, and is the joint
responsibility of the National Committee to Support the Communes, the Ministry of Interior and MRD to
resolve. The "hands-on" experience working with VDCs under NVDP helped to position MRD in this
important policy dialogue.

4.5.4    The Cambodia National Poverty Reduction Strategy correctly recognizes the CC as the lowest
level of elected government, with the responsibility to lead the local development process funded through
the Commune/Sangkat Fund, and also recognizes the important role of VDCs in village development.
VDCs, while selected through a simple open election, are civil society organizations and are not part of
government. Clearly, VDCs, if engaged properly by CCs, can be a great asset to ensure that the Commune
Development Planning Process is more genuinely inclusive and transparent, and that, in line with basic
principle of good governance, CCs are held accountable by the communities that they serve for the quality,
predictability and efficiency of the services that they provide.

4.5.5    While rural development institutional structures of the country changed during the course of NVDP
implementation, the VDCs remain as a key civil society organization of the villages. In this capacity, VDCs
represent the village in the CC PBC in the new decentralized development structure. In most NVDP target
villages, at least one VDC member participates in the PBC, typically in addition to the appointed Village
Chief. A simple survey done by NVDP staff at the request of the Bank task team indicates that of the 120
NVDP villages, 113 villages have members of VDCs representing the village on the PBC.

4.5.6    The ICR mission village meetings were also used to explore the realities of the role of VDCs in the
context of relations with the elected CCs and the Commune Development Planning Process. In virtually all
villages it was found that the VDCs were playing a lead role for their village in relation to the CC in a
number of important areas. Indeed, it was found that a number of VDC members had been directly elected
as CC members, and their ability to carry out these functions would certainly have been increased after
participation in the NVDP.

4.5.7    In the opinion of almost all appointed Village Chiefs interviewed by the ICR mission, the VDC was
very important or essential to them to develop the village level plans and priorities for submission to the
Commune Development Planning Process. The vast majority of Village Chiefs felt that they could not do
this task alone or that they could not do it nearly as well in terms of quality and consensus without the


                                                       - 13 -

VDCs help. In practice, most Village Chiefs and VDC members alike were of the view that both the Village
Chief and the VDC routinely worked together on village development and needed each other for the
planning process. CC members were of a similar opinion and highlighted the continued importance of
VDCs in support of CC activities.

4.5.8    A less significant institutional development impact was made within MRD and the PDRDs. At the
close of the NVDP, several of the project staff went back into MRD's Department of Community
Development or to the PDRDs. However, the core funding for this Department from the government
budget is extremely minimal and the work program is almost completely dependent on external financing.
Therefore, most of the staff of the Department of Community Development are seconded to donor-funded
projects or to NGOs doing community development projects in the field.

4.5.9    At the provincial level, the PDRD staff who participated in the project gained experience in
working closely with local communities, often for the first time. However, the number of PDRD staff who
participated was restricted because the issue of salary supplementation is acute at the provincial level.
Many of the PDRD staff who participated in the project are now working on other Bank- and donor-funded
projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1 Several factors outside of the direct control of government or the implementing agency adversely
affected project implementation. First, the consultant initially hired as the National Project Advisor
performed very poorly and contributed significantly to the slow project start-up. Second, unanticipated
logistical difficulties of working in remote and, in 1999/2000, insecure provinces contributed significantly
to initial implementation delays. Third, heavy flooding during the 2001 and 2002 rainy seasons delayed
construction of subprojects in some of the more flood-affected areas. Fourth, droughts and floods and their
related impacts on household incomes adversely affected the ability of communities to raise the required
cash contributions and increased the opportunity cost of providing the labor contributions for subprojects.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    No major factors under the control of government adversely affected the implementation of the
project directly. Nonetheless, there are two broad areas of reform, subject to government control, which
indirectly had an adverse impact on project outcomes. First, the new laws governing the formation and role
of CCs and the process for the election of CCs in 2002 affected the institutional structure in which NVDP
operated, and to date has still not clarified the role of the VDC. Second, lack of civil service reform, very
low regular salaries for government staff, and the common use of salary supplements by most donors (but
not the Bank), affected the willingness of some PDRD staff to engage in the project without receiving
salary supplements.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    No major factors subject to implementing agency control adversely affected project
implementation. During the main implementation period of the project, the MRD gave NVDP
implementation significant attention. The Project Director and staff assigned to NVDP were very
competent and performed well, and MRD gave them sufficient support. The former Minister of Rural
Development was very actively engaged in oversight of NVDP, gave NVDP staff adequate access for
consultation and key decisions, and on occasion even accompanied the Bank team on supervision missions.


                                                       - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1   The negotiated amount of the Credit was SDR 3.60 million, as compared to the actual expenditures
from the Credit of 3.48 million (US$ 4,679,382). Adjustments in expenditure category allocations were
made to accommodate the inclusion of two new provinces in the Northwest as well as to compensate for the
implementation period extension of 26 months. The allocation for the category of operating costs was
increased, principally by reducing the allocations for goods and consultants. The amount for subproject
grants to communities remained essentially unchanged, but was spread over six provinces rather than four.

5.4.2   The Japanese PHRD Grant in the amount of US$ 700,000 which was intended to co-finance
consulting services had a closing date of October 31, 2001. Because of the initial implementation delays,
only US$248,653.93 (35.5 percent) of this grant was used before the closing date, and it was not possible
to extend the closing date of the grant. Nonetheless, the allocation for consultant services under the Credit
was sufficient to cover project needs.

5.4.3   Government counterpart funds (10 percent for expenditure categories of works and operating
costs) were available on time and in the appropriate amounts. Community cash contributions were also
collected as anticipated, but with some difficulty, and were used to fund VDC operating costs with the
balance at project completion allocated to subproject operation and maintenance costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1   In the context of what can be expected from a LIL, the sustainability of project outcomes is rated
as likely. However, the prospect for broader sustainability was diminished largely because there has been
no follow-up financing to the LIL, rather than to a specific shortcoming of NVDP.

6.1.2   NVDP delivered what was expected from a learning and innovation start-up and process-oriented
phase for a larger scale follow-on project. NVDP was not originally expected to provide free-standing
sustainability of outcomes in its own right. Rather, the learning and innovation approach aimed to develop
participatory rural development mechanisms through the Local Development Process, to improve
capabilities of local rural development institutions from the level of village VDCs to the PDRDs to the
national MRD, and to support implementation of a limited number of priority subprojects in villages to test
out and gain initial experience with these approaches. Lessons learned from this experience were then to be
employed in the design of the anticipated longer-term development program which would follow. The 1999
NVDP PAD envisaged the end-of-project situation as one where "This start-up phase will have helped the
NVDP to gain experience and enable those involved to prepare the long-term plan for the following
5-year phase" and that "the longer-term 5-year development program for the area will have been
prepared".

6.1.3   In this context, the PAD treated issues of sustainability and risks largely in terms of subproject
sustainability risks within villages (e.g., subproject quality, maintenance, efficiency, community
contributions) together with broad institutional approach risks to bottom up development mechanisms (e.g.,
lack of government commitment to participatory approaches, PRA process complexity resulting in
reversion to top down modes of development). This treatment of sustainability and risks did not address the
possibility of lack of funding for the longer term NVDP follow-on project or the sustainability of core
outcomes such as the functionality of the Local Development Process or the continued institutional capacity



                                                       - 15 -

of MRD/PDRD in the post-project phase.

6.1.4    Bank financing for the longer-term and larger-scale follow-on project to the NVDP will likely not
materialize. This is due to two factors. First, with the 2002 Commune/Sangkat Council elections,
Government clearly articulated a priority for, and expressed its preference to concentrate limited resources
and institutional capacity on a commune-based approach. The Bank responded with financing for the
Rural Investment and Local Governance Project, and an upcoming Rural Investment and Local Governance
Project - II. Second, there are very tight overall IDA funding limitations in the new CAS under IDA 14.
While there is a project on "Community Empowerment" included in the CAS for FY 07, this will not likely
be a direct follow-up to NVDP, although it may draw upon the VDC experience developed under NVDP.
Only late in NVDP implementation did it become clear to NVDP stakeholders that the longer-term
follow-on development program would not go forward with Bank financing. As a result, no changes were
made to the originally conceived development objectives of the NVDP or its project component activities
and no exit strategy for the LIL phase was incorporated.

6.1.5    Sustainability of NVDP impacts in terms of both institutional strengthening of MRD/PDRD and
village VDCs was substantially lessened because of the lack of follow-up project as was originally
designed. MRD/PDRD, VDCs and villagers have undertaken a wide range of very useful capacity
development activities for rural development but have only implemented these new skills and abilities over
one project implementation cycle in each village before the end of the NVDP. Discussions with MRD and
PDRD staff and VDC members during the ICR mission indicated that the sustainability of government
staff and village VDC capacities to undertake the local development process and project implementation
would have been considerably enhanced by repeating the process with NVDP support over perhaps three
project implementation cycles.

6.1.6    Nonetheless, the institutional development impacts, even though "modest", and the experience and
sills acquired by the beneficiaries of NVDP are likely to be sustained and to substantially contribute to
better implementation of the commune-based development approach led by the Commune/Sangkat Councils
under the decentralization reforms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    Transition arrangements to regular operations are unlikely, because the second phase follow-on
project is not part of the current IDA country program. This contingency was not originally anticipated in
the NVDP design, so no exit strategy was incorporated for the LIL phase.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated as
satisfactory overall. The project design provided a suitable response to the complexity of development
problems to be addressed in the context of rural Cambodia in the late 1990s, and the decentralized
participatory planning and implementation process piloted proved effective. However, some design
aspects, such as technical assistance, decentralized funds flow arrangements, and a complete draft of an
initial Project Operational Manual, should have been in place before Credit effectiveness.

7.2 Supervision:




                                                     - 16 -

7.2.1 The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project is rated as satisfactory. The Bank
team gave adequate support to project implementation. Nine full supervision missions were carried out
during the 55-month implementation period, supplemented by other short visits and video conferences. All
full supervision missions included visits to participating provinces to check on field implementation.
Throughout supervision, the Bank team helped the implementing agency to surmount initial implementation
delays and other issues and to draw out the lessons learned during implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The RGC worked closely
with the Bank team on the project design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The Borrower's performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. The government
counterpart funding under the project was usually made available in full and on time, including the
government's share of operating costs during the extended project implementation period.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    The performance of the implementing agency, MRD, is rated as satisfactory overall. This was the
first project in Cambodia with a decentralized PIU and PPIUs in all other project provinces. The Project
Director, Deputy Project Director and Provincial Project Managers were very dedicated and hard working,
and performed very well in the project's decentralized institutional arrangement. The procurement and
financial management aspects of the project were implemented very well. The PIU provided project
management reports, audit reports and necessary project information on a timely basis.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      As a LIL, the NVDP was intended to help develop and test organizational arrangements, planning
and implementation processes, and capacity building programs focused on enabling local institutions to
identify, plan, implement, monitor and manage local development activities, with the intention to extend the
application of these, once proven effective, under a larger-scale follow-on project. To this end, the lessons
learned were discussed extensively in workshops at the village, provincial and national level, documented in
project publications and widely disseminated. To inform future design, this section builds on, rather than
repeats, the already documented lessons.

8.2      Benefits and drawbacks of the LIL instrument. The LIL instrument proved to be valuable because
of its flexibility to adopt a "learning-by-doing" approach and to make changes to the processes as needed
during implementation. However, it also had several drawbacks. First, because the LIL was a pilot, and
funding for the envisaged follow-on program was not secured, sustainability of the LIL outcomes was



                                                     - 17 -

lessened. Second, the limits placed on the LIL preparation period contributed to implementation delays.
The project would have benefited from a slightly longer preparation period so that a draft project
implementation manual, the project funds flows, and the decentralized implementation arrangements could
have been worked out prior to effectiveness. Third, the limits placed on the implementation period proved
too restrictive, even considering the 26 month extension. Reflection on the challenges of working in rural
Cambodia suggests that a more realistic minimum duration for a program with the objective of building and
testing organizational arrangements, planning and implementation processes and capacity building for
sustained decentralized rural development would be ten years. A further enhancement within such a
timeframe would be to consider undertaking smaller-scale and simpler projects first in villages, following
initial VDC formation and training inputs, and then larger-scale projects in later cycles.

8.3      Constraints to sustained participation. The participatory approach developed under NVDP was
proved effective. However, there are three key constraints to sustained participation in villages following
the project: (a) the high opportunity cost of involvement; and (b) the low likelihood of significant return on
participation in the form of further investment in the village; and (c) literacy and low base-level capacity.

8.4      Opportunity costs of participation. While participation in the VDC clearly was a good learning
experience, there are several constraints to sustained participation. The VDCs formed by the NVDP are by
now up for reelection according to their VDC statutes. Most existing VDC members reported that they
would not seek reelection but would be happy to serve in a supporting, advisory role to others in the village
who would serve as VDC members. The most common reason was that VDC work, related to running
meetings, mobilizing community cash and labor contributions for subprojects and supervising construction,
while considered worthwhile and important, involved a large commitment of personal time. Another reason
expressed by some VDC members for not standing for reelection was to allow new people with new ideas
and talents to take up VDC work to further build the capacity of the village.

8.5       Meanwhile, few villagers outside the existing VDC membership indicated that they would stand as
new VDC candidates in future. The most common reason was the observed heavy workload of the existing
VDC. In this context, existing VDC members, to their credit, were carrying on their community work in
the interim to keep the VDC a viable entity as they appreciated its value to the village.

8.5      The difficulties of VDC participation were further explored by the ICR mission with VDC
members. The main problems were faced by VDC members in poorer villagers and/or by VDC members
that were themselves poor. The opportunity costs of VDC work were high for these VDC members as their
labor was withdrawn from meeting daily family needs by participation in VDC work. This is an obstacle
for both men's and women's participation. Moreover, securing cash and labor contribution was reported
as stressful as well as time consuming, involving repeated meetings and household visits. VDCs in poorer
villages often had difficulties raising the minimum cash contribution for their subproject. In this situation,
VDC members were often too shy to take any of the cash contribution at all for their own VDC expenses
and instead spent money for VDC work out of their own pockets.

8.6      Two options to address the high opportunity cost are: (a) to compensate for time given to these
activities; or (b) reduce the load on the VDC members. Compensating for time with cash payment from the
project would introduce a risk of expectation that VDC membership will be paid and this would difficult to
sustain beyond the project period. This option could also give the misperception that the VDC is formed
for the project alone and not for broader participation in the village development process after the project.
There are two possible solutions to ease the burden. The first would be to raise the awareness of this
problem in the communities and encourage others to compensate the VDC members themselves  not
necessarily in cash but, for example, by offering to help the VDC member out with the daily chores that


                                                     - 18 -

would still need to be done (farm labor, child care, food preparation). Alternatively the work load of the
VDC member could be reduced by allowing the project funds to be used to provide a stipend for a village
assistant who would undertake the time-consuming tasks such as collecting contributions, arranging
meetings, and so on. The sustainability of the VDC post-project is less likely to be affected by specific
association of the village assistant with the project.

8.7      Overall funding constraints limit returns to continued participation. However, the long-term
impact of having such significant investment in selected villages within a commune, without the commune
jointly prioritizing together, is that the village is unlikely to be prioritized for further projects for several
years. Understanding this, the participation of the village in commune activities is likely to be much
reduced. Therefore, while the project raised significant capacity at the village level, much of this will not
now be utilized.

8.8      Literacy as a constraint to participation. The literacy criterion for VDC candidates poses an
obstacle to VDC membership for the illiterate and especially for women (more of whom are illiterate). The
ICR mission felt that while literacy was necessary for at least some members of the VDC (VDC leader,
secretarial or treasurer functions), literacy should not be a universal criteria for VDC candidature. Illiterate
villagers (both women and men) can include those with considerable talents and capacities useful for VDC
work outside tasks involving reading and writing skills. For example, illiterate villagers may have useful
community mobilization skills or they may be well known and respected in the village. The pool of literate
people in some villages could be quite limited and the literacy criterion effectively excluded good
candidates, particularly women, from VDC participation.

8.9      Nonetheless, the ICR mission village meetings also highlighted substantial variations in capacity
between VDCs of different villages. It was apparent that poorer and more isolated villagers more often
lacked basic skills and capabilities among VDC members for the types of VDC work under NVDP,
probably related to differences in education and literacy levels among villages. As a result, VDC formation
and training in poorer and/or more remote villages requires more intensive facilitation to achieve good
results. Of course, these communities are the ones most in need of such support in the cause of poverty
alleviation, and where the greatest community benefits can ultimately be gained. Meanwhile, other VDCs in
communities with higher base levels of education and literacy could be very impressive in terms of the
quality, skills and level of understanding among VDC members.

8.10     Local Contributions. Local contributions in the form of cash ( at least 3 percent of subproject
cost) and material/labor (at least 12 percent of subproject cost) were required to be collected. In general,
collection of contributions for subprojects of a more private-good nature, such as commune wells and
latrines, was easier than for more public-good subprojects such as roads, and bridges. Also, ease of
collection varied across project provinces Stung Treng, where few donors operate, had high collection
rates, whereas the other project provinces, where more donors operate, had lower collection rates. Cash
contributions were meant to be collected in full before commencement of subproject implementation.
However, due to the extreme poverty in some of the target villages and that these communities experienced
significant hardships due to the severe flood in 2002 and severe drought during 2003, subprojects were
allowed to commence after collection of 50 percent of the local contribution, and collection of the balance
was carried on during subproject implementation.

8.11     In the somewhat better-off communities with good quality VDCs, the cash contributions were
collected without much difficulty. More typically, however, the collection of cash contributions did present
challenges for VDCs, particularly in poorer villages. The amounts asked of each family could be quite
large relative to the income of poor families. For example, one road subproject required 20,000 riel per


                                                        - 19 -

household, which is equivalent to four full days of labor in a community where many people depend on
casual agricultural wage labor employment at 5,000 riel/day.

8.12     Although the project design allowed for some flexibility in the amounts of cash and in-kind
contribution required, greater flexibility of contribution could be introduced by varying amounts required
according to individual households ability to pay, allowing for substitution of labor for cash contribution
and including incentives for contributing cash, such as a matching fund formula rather than a fixed
percentage of a predetermined amount or project size.

8.13     In addition, about five days unpaid labor contribution per household was required on average. This
proved difficult for very poor households which need their labor to meet needs as basic as food to eat on a
daily basis. In general, however, VDCs felt that organizing labor contributions for subprojects was less
difficult than securing cash contributions. Nonetheless, some VDCs still faced problems in getting
sufficient laborers to turn out on the days that their labor was required, despite significant efforts by the
Local Development Facilitators. The persistence of this problem suggests that it is not primarily related to
competing demands on villagers' time for agricultural labor inputs, because of the coincidence in timing of
the dry season construction period and the peak period for agricultural labor inputs for field preparation,
tending and harvesting. Rather, the problem seemed more incentive based. Labor inputs at the beginning
of subproject implementation (e.g., clearing of brush for roads, digging of pits for latrines and wells) were
significantly easier to organize than labor inputs at the end of subprojects (e.g., turfing of the grades along
roadsides, backfilling approaches to bridges). While completion of the final labor inputs ultimately affects
the quality of the subprojects, villagers were not motivated to provide the labor inputs which were not
essential to gain use of the subprojects. This suggests that labor contributions should be confined to inputs
at the beginning of the subproject implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1      We agree with the ICR and the observations contained therein. MRD has gained a great deal from
the NVDP experience, as it has served to validate much of our Rectangular National Poverty Reduction
Strategy. The Royal Government of Cambodia is deeply indebted to the efforts of the World Bank Team in
supporting this vital project.

9.2      As stated in the ICR, delays were encountered due to various reasons, but the end result
demonstrated what MRD holds to be true: the foundation of our National Poverty Reduction Strategy rests
in the hands of the residents of our small rural villages. This project has demonstrated that decentralization
completely can work at grassroots' level.

9.3      This effort succeeded in developing organizational arrangements, planning and implementation
processes and capacity building which enabled 120 VDCs in four provinces to analyze, prioritize and
implement small-scale rural infrastructure projects to improve their economic status. The NVDP completed
its stated goals, producing operational VDC and all related components. This is a significant step toward
reaching our goal of poverty reduction. This initial success resulted in expanding the effort to two
additional provinces early in the project.

9.4      The NDVP was designed as a pilot-project LIL. All objectives were achieved. It was designed to
provide the basis for the design and implementation of a far longer and wider program to continue the
development of a decentralization process responding to the needs of our rural villagers, embodying a



                                                      - 20 -

decentralized, grassroots philosophy.

9.5      It was demonstrated, as pointed out in the ICR, that, "Clearly, VDCs, if engaged properly by CCs,
can be a great asset to ensure that the Commune Development Planning Process is more genuinely
inclusive and transparent, and that, in line with basic principle of good governance, CCs are held
accountable top the communities that they serve for the quality, predictability and efficiency of the
services they provide."

9.6      We have now reached the stage where many of our well intentioned programs become vulnerable 
sustainability. We have worked hard, overcoming many obstacles to achieve success, only to learn that, "
World Bank financing for the longer-term and larger-scale follow-on project for the Northeast is now
unlikely to materialize." We have given our rural population the expectation that we can assist in
alleviating their poverty conditions and now must abandon them. Without continued support for this
effective and operative program, we lose not only the benefit of our work but the confidence of those with
whom we have worked for the past five years.

9.7      The impact of abandoning this program has a synergistic effect. As stated in the referenced
paragraph, much projected work has only started due to delays beyond everyone's control. At least three
additional project implementation cycles are required to achieve sustainability. Unfortunately, it appears
that any follow-up project is unlikely and the loan will be wasted. One basis of good governance is
establishing confidence of the governed in their government. Continued support of this program is essential.


9.8      The RGC and the MRD and its' partners wish to again express our sincere appreciation for the
support that we have received with the NVDP and sincerely hope that funding can be found to continue this
good work.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

10.1     Although this is a "core" as opposed to an "intensive learning" ICR, significant fieldwork was
conducted for the ICR mission. The mission spent eight days in the field, traveled to Kratie, Kampong
Cham and Kampong Thom (travel to Stung Treng was not possible due to flooding), and visited a sample
of 12 out of the 120 participating villages. The mission spent approximately a half-day in each village,
during which the mission members conducted semi-structured group interviews of the VDC members,
village sub-beneficiaries, Village Chiefs and CC members. While in the villages, the mission conducted
physical inspections of the completed subprojects. The mission also interview the NVDP Project Director,
Deputy Project Director, and Project Administrative Officer, the Provincial Program Manager of the PIU,
Local Development Facilitators, and PDRD Counterparts in the respective provinces, who accompanied the
mission. In addition, the mission met with NGOs working in and around the NVDP target villages.
Finally, the mission followed-up with discussions with other MRD staff, consultant advisors and other
informed parties in Phnom Penh.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Government transfers some decision making The local government control is at the             Although NVDP encouraged and facilitated
and resource allocation responsibilities to   commune level, however, and the role of        the application of good governance principles
local governments.                            VDCs vis a vis the commune has not yet         at village level, it also supported the
                                              been clarified completely. For the first 5-yr. Government's Decentralization and
                                              mandate of the CC, the VDC are members of Deconcentration process. According to the
                                              the CC planning and budgeting committee.       Government's decentralization framework,
                                                                                             the Commune Councils became during the
                                                                                             project implementation period the lowest level
                                                                                             of elected government with the responsibility
                                                                                             to lead local development process funded
                                                                                             through the Commune/ Sangkat Fund.
NVDP target communes and villages             Same as at mid-term.                           The following selection criteria: poverty level,
selected according to agreed poverty criteria.                                               accessibility, level of local participation,
                                                                                             existing development activities and potential
                                                                                             resources were discussed with provincial
                                                                                             authorities and the government agencies
                                                                                             concerned and the NGOs working in the
                                                                                             province and used for selection of the target
                                                                                             villages:
                                                                                             -Poverty level or real local need for external
                                                                                             support
                                                                                             -Accessible throughout the year
                                                                                             -High local participation (local contribution,
                                                                                             existing committees)
                                                                                             -Limited or no activity of other development
                                                                                             agencies or no overlapping program
                                                                                             -Existing potential resources




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
PIU develops and pretests LDP in selected     LDP a very appropriate participatory planning 120 villages from 34 communes of 12
villages and communes.                        process in 120 target villages.                districts in 4 provinces covering a population
                                                                                             of 113,444 were selected as pilot target
                                                                                             villages and conducted Village Development
                                                                                             Plans through a participatory selection
                                                                                             process.
PIU introduces decentralized procurement      Decentralized procurement and financing        Decentralized procurement and financing
and financing procedures for sub-project.     procedures effectively implemented in 120      procedures designed in 4 operational
                                              target villages.                               manuals and effectively implemented in 120
                                                                                             target villages.
Villages and communes in target districts use LDP proved effective in 120 target villages    120 subprojects (99 km of roads in 57
LDP for planning and implementing                                                            villages, 199 m of bridges in 9 villages, 2,880
sub-projects.                                                                                m of irrigation schemes in 4 villages, 73 wells
                                                                                             in 11 villages, 5625 latrines in 39 villages)
                                                                                             were implemented through LDP.


Women participate in VDC/CDC.                 Women equitably represented and actively       56% women and 44% men participated in
                                              participate in VDC activities                  VDC election across for provinces.
                                                                                             45% of the VDC members are women.
                                                                                             All subprojects selected by the community in
                                                                                             the four provinces will benefit men and
                                                                                             women equally.
VDC elected and recognized by PRDC.           VDC active in all 120 target villages and      VDC active in all 120 target villages and
                                              officially recognized by PRDC.                 officially recognized by PRDC.
Program for LDP training workshops                                                           The following LDP training were organized:




                                                                 - 22 -

scheduled and organized                                     - 7594 person-days training on Subprojects
                                                            maintenance and supervision (42% women)
                                                            - 8, 533 person-days training on LDP
                                                            management ( 49% women)
                                                            - 2,381 person-training days on Subprojects
                                                            management ( 43% women)
PRDC formed and functioning in all four                     PRDC were involved in the selection process
target provinces                                            of the villages as well as for mobilizing the
                                                            communities in participating in Planning and
                                                            Budgeting Committee (PBC) for development
                                                            planning and budgeting at commune level,
                                                            and assist Commune Councils in selection of
                                                            projects and local resources mobilization
                                                            during the project implementation.
PPIU formed and functioning in all four target              NVDP project has constructed 9 district
provinces                                                   offices at the target districts, and 3 PPIU
                                                            Offices and 1 PIU office at the target four
                                                            provinces.
MRD coordinating and evaluating the project                 The key achievements of the NVDP for this
                                                            objective is gained through various policy
                                                            dialogues at MRD policy and decision making
                                                            level. The NVDP assisted MRD preparing the
                                                            concept papers leading to reshaping the
                                                            landscape of Rural Development Structure,
                                                            MRD's Long Term Strategy Development
                                                            framework, VDC-based Rural Development
                                                            Concept, and Local Governance through
                                                            Rural Development Programs.

1End of project




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1- Participatory Planning & investment                          4.02             3.59            89
2- Institutional Strengthening and project Management           1.80             1.79            98

Total Baseline Cost                                             5.82             5.38
 Physical Contingencies                                         0.28
 Price Contingencies                                            0.23
                          Total Project Costs                   6.33             5.38
                    Total Financing Required                    6.33             5.38

          Beneficiaries (12% of subprojects cost)          0.33                            5
           Government budget (5% of total costs)           0.32                            5
                                       Japanese Grant          0.70                       11
                                      IDA Credit           4.98                           79


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                 2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.23          0.00        0.23
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)     (0.20)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00           0.70          0.00        0.70
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.70)         (0.00)     (0.70)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           1.57          0.70        2.27
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.57)         (0.00)     (1.57)
4. Subprojects                       0.00            0.00           2.94          0.00        2.94
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (2.36)         (0.00)     (2.36)
5. Operational costs                 0.00            0.00           0.19          0.00        0.19
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.17)         (0.00)     (0.17)
6. Unallocated                       0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.00            0.00           5.63          0.70        6.33
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (5.00)         (0.00)     (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                 2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.22           0.00       0.22
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)     (0.20)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00          0.40           0.00       0.40


                                                  - 24 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.35)            (0.00)           (0.35)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.35             0.25              1.60
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.35)            (0.00)           (1.35)
   4. Subprojects                           0.00               0.00              2.15             0.25              2.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.15)            (0.00)           (2.15)
   5. Operational costs                     0.00               0.00              0.71             0.05              0.76
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.63)            (0.00)           (0.63)
   6. Unallocated                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              4.83             0.55              5.38
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.68)            (0.00)           (4.68)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1- Participatory Planning       3.30                      1.03        3.10                    0.50       93.9               48.5
&investment
2- Institutional                1.70         0.30                     1.58         0.20                  92.9      66.7
Strengthening and project
Management


   * Co-financing appraisal estimate includes $0.33 million of beneficiary contribution. ** Co-financing
   actual includes $0.25 million of beneficiary contribution in cash and kind.




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/13/1996                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                             ENTERPRISE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RURAL ENGR/ECONOMIST
                                             (1); VETERINARY ADVISOR
                                             (1); COUNTRY
                                             REP/AICF/USA(1); FISHERIES
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              03/16/1997                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION ENGR (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              08/24/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              11/10/1997                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATED
                                             AGRICULTURE SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/02/1998                1    IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/21/1998                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                                             RURAL ROADS MGMNT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/30/1998                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PUBLIC ADM & FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             INSTITUTIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMNT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              11/05/1999                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/05/1999                2    SECTOR ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              12/20/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                            FINANCIAL MGMT OFFICER
                                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)
               05/12/2001              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT.SP. (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT SP. (1)
               10/13/2001              2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)
               03/07/2002              2    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (1)
               08/03/2002              2    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)
               06/20/2003              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               12/20/2003              4    TEAM LEADER (1); FIN              S    S
                                            MGMT SPEC (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ASST (1)
               06/15/2004              5    TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL           S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ASST (2);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1)

 ICR
               10/18/2004             8     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            YOUNG PROFESSIONAL
                                            (1); GENDER SPECIALIST
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1); ROAD
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               10                       26,332
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    24                       66,400
  Supervision                            100                       275,916
  ICR                                      13                       35,833
  Total                                  147                       404,481




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Participatory development
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents:

   Project Appraisal Document (PAD), 30 April 1999
   Development Credit Agreement (DCA), 15 July 1999
   Japanese Grant Agreement for Preparation of Northeast Village Development Project
  Grant TF025393, 21 May 1999
   Legal Opinion on the DCA IDA Credit No. 3216-0 KH dated 15 July 1999 between the
  IDA and the Kingdom of Cambodia, 02 August 1999
   Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry
  of Rural Development Concerning on the Financial Operations of the Northeast Village
  Development Project, 04 October 1999
   NVDP Accounting Policy and Procedure Manual, 1999 (in English and Khmer)
   Operation Manual Volume I  NVDP Local Development Process, revised August 2003
  (in Khmer and English)
   Operation Manual Volume II  NVDP Sub Project Financial Management System,
  revised August 2003 (in Khmer and English)
   Operation Manual Volume III  NVDP Technical Guideline for Sub Projects, revised
  August 2003 (in Khmer and English)
   Operation Manual Volume IV  NVDP Sub Project Monitoring and Evaluation, revised
  August 2003 (in Khmer and English)
   NVDP LDP Lesson Learned Documentation, May 2004 (in Khmer and English)
   120 Village Data Base Book (for 120 VDCs) (in Khmer and English)
   Participatory Rural Appraisal Documentations for 120 Village Development Committees
  (in Khmer)
   NVDP Village Action Plan Documentations for 120 Village Development Committees (in
  Khmer)
   NVDP Sub Project Proposal Documents for 120 Village Development Committees (in
  Khmer)
   Mid Term Review Report, December 2003 (in English and Khmer)
   NVDP and WB Comments on Mid Term Review Report, 2003 (in English)
   NVDP TNA Report, 2001
   Leaflets

Report and Workplan

   Annual Reports 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003
   1st, 2nd and 3rd Quarter Report for 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 1st & 2nd Quarter
  Reports for 2004
   Monthly Reports for 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 (in Khmer only)
   NVDP Workplans 2001, 2002, 2003
   Staff Plans for 2000, 2001 and 2002
   Procurement Plans for 2000, 2001, 2002



                                          - 31 -

   Audit Reports for 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003-04
   First Round M&E Report, 2003
   Second Round M&E Report, 2003
   Third Round M&E Report, 2004

NVDP Training Documents
   MoRe Impact (NVDP) : Description and Manual, 12 December 2002
   Guidelines for Utilization of Remaining of Local Cash Contribution, 2003 (in English and
  Khmer)
   Subproject Supervision and Management Manual, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   General Guidelines for Bridge Construction, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   General Guidelines for Small Irrigation System Construction, 2001 (in English and
  Khmer)
   General Guidelines for Rural Road Construction, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   General Guidelines for Family Latrine Construction, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   General Guidelines for Combine Well Construction, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   Rural Road and Bridge Maintenance Manual, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   Small Irrigation System Maintenance Manual, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   Water Use and Hygiene Education Manual, 2003 (in English and Khmer)
   Policy and Strategy for Road Maintenance, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   Infrastructure Project Technical Manual, 2001 (in English and Khmer)
   Hand Pump No. 6 Reparation and Maintenance Manual, 2001 (in Khmer)
   Afridev Hand Pump Reparation and Maintenance Manual, 2001 (in Khmer)
   NVDP LDP Training Manual, 2000
   NVDP VDC Formation Manual, 2000
   NVDP PRA Preparation Manual, 2000
   NVDP VAP Preparation Manual, 2000
   NVDP Sub Project Preparation and Proposal Writing Manual, 2001
   NVDP Resource Mobilization and Facilitation Skill Manual, 2001
   NVDP Sub Project Procurement Manual, 2001
   NVDP LDP Training Manual, 2000

IDA Supervision Mission Reports:
   Aide-Memories
   Minute of Technical Discussion, 17-26 February 1999
   Project Status Reports

Other Documents:
   NVDP Long Term Development Strategy Concept Paper, 2003
   Appropriate Village Level Interventions Study Report, 2004
   Institutional Assessment and Future Strategy of the Ministry of Rural Development, 2001
  (sponsored by NVDP)
   National Workshop Report on Landlessness and Rural Development, 2001 (sponsored by
  NVDP)


                                           - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

Background

The Northeast Village Development Project (NVDP) is an initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development
(MRD) in Cambodia. The Project was formulated with the technical and financial support of the WB in
1998, and the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 3216 KH) between Royal Government of
Cambodia and International Development Association (IDA) was signed on 15 July 1999. The Project
was implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development. The Project team was mobilized in October
1999 and staff recruitment and training of the Project staffs were carried out during the first half of the
Year 2000, and field activities were started in second half of the Year 2000. The Project was completed
and closed on 30 June 2004.

a. Project development objectives

The development objective of the NVDP is two fold:
     (i). to introduce decentralized, participatory rural approaches to reduce poverty in some of the
          under-served areas of Cambodia; and
     (ii) to gain the experience in managing such programs needed by the Royal Government for
          formulating and carrying out a cohesive national strategy for rural development in the post Project
          period.

It is expected that in the process of local development, participation and community ownership would be
strengthened and simple and effective procedures and tools would be developed for the purpose.
Simultaneously the MRD capacity would be enhanced to manage decentralized programs, and the

b. Brief Description of the Project Implementation

Target Areas : The NVDP has been implemented in four provinces of the Northeast provinces, namely K.
Cham, K. Thom, Kratie and S. Treng provinces. A total of 120 villages from 34 communes of 12 districts
in these provinces are selected as pilot target villages through participatory selection process.

      Province           Number of          Number of           Number of           Number of
                         Districts          Communes             Villages          Beneficiaries
 Kampong Cham                4                  14                   40               42,278
Kampong Thom                 3                   5                   30               19,272
Kratie                       3                   7                   30               38,651
Stung Treng                  2                   8                   20               13,243
 Total                      12                  34                 120               113,444

Project Implementation Process : The NVDP project was formulated in the Learning and Innovation
Framework, and the core of NVDP project implementation was the "Local Development Process." Local
Development Process is a continuum whereby the VDC, with community participation, collects and
analyzes information, and makes development decisions including the identification of development needs
and priorities, preparation of Village Action Plans, developing the subprojects, mobilization of resources,
and the implementation management of the subproject activities, monitoring and evaluation of local
development activities.

The main activities under the LDP process in the context of the NVDP include: (1) Target village selection,
(2) VDC formation and training, (3) Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA), (4) Village Action Plan (VAP)


                                                      - 33 -

preparation, (5) Sub-project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, (6) VAP review and
new sub-project planning
Target Village Selection : The NVDP developed criteria and procedure for target village selection and
discussed them with the provincial authorities and the government agencies concerned and the NGOs
working in the province. Prior to selecting the villages, the NVDP applied a process to select districts and
communes in consultation with the provincial governor and the PRDC.
The following selection criteria were used for selection of the target villages: (1) Poverty or real local need
for external support, (2) Accessible throughout the year, (3) High local participation (local contribution,
existing committees), (4) Limited or no activity of other development agencies or no overlapping program,
(5) Existing potential resources

VDC Formation and Training : The VDCs were elected by the village population and recognized by the
Royal Government as an autonomous, nongovernmental body belonging to the village. The VDC is
mandated to represent the village to the government, to other civil associations and local agencies, as well
as to international agencies, in planning and managing their own process of village development. Based
upon agreement with government, the VDC is responsible for facilitating the planning and management of
village development with the broad participation of the community, other village associations and activity
groups. A VDC has a term of 3 years according to the current arrangement.

The number of VDC members to be elected can be 7 or 9 depending upon the number of families in the
village. At least 40 percent of the VDC members must be women.

The NVDP had formed new 80 VDCs in the target villages, where there were no functioning VDCs existed.
In 40 of the 120 target villages, the NVDP cooperated with preexisting VDCs.

According to the MRD Circular of Guidance for the implementation of the Royal Government decision No.
02 Sor Sor Ror of 11 January 1999, the VDC, under the overall guidance of the PRDC and in consultation
with the village population, is responsible for mobilizing the communities in participating in Planning and
Budgeting Committee (PBC) for development planning and budgeting at commune level, and assist
Commune Councils in selection of projects and local resources mobilization. The VDCs' role is also to
represent its community at the Commune Council Development Planning and Budget Committee and to
properly manage the village development fund. After the VDC formation, the NVDP PPIU Teams
conducted training on the VDC's Function and Responsibilities, Introduction of NVDP objectives and
activities, Local Development Planning concept and the roles of VDC and communities, Procedures on the
PRA and VAP, and subproject selection and preparation.

Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) : The NVDP facilitated the VDCs to undertake a participatory
process of information collection, situation analysis and planning for the development of their villages by
using the PRA approaches, methodologies and tools. From the PRA, the problem analysis and the needs
prioritization were exercised by the participants.

Village Action Plan (VAP) : A VAP is the plan of the VDC to address the priority needs of the community
identified during the course of the PRA. The VDC prepares the VAP in a village-level workshop, initially
with the support of facilitators from the NVDP. The VAP workshop identifies and clarifies the sub-projects
that the VDC would like to undertake as a priority. Among the participants were the VDC members, the
VDC advisors including the Village Chief, some elderly and experienced people from the village and
teachers who were specifically invited. The main output of the VAP is the identification and prioritization
of sub-projects for implementation by the VDC to address the priority needs of the community.



                                                     - 34 -

The VAP document consisted of the goal and the mission of the VDC and a list of 5 objectives and
corresponding 5 proposed sub-projects in the order of priority. For each sub-project, the total number of
direct beneficiaries and the proportion of women beneficiaries were noted down.

Subproject Development Process : Upon the receiving the VAPs from VDCs, the PPIU shared the VAP
proposals with other development agencies as a means to avoid overlap and contradiction in the target area,
and to explore the possibility of cooperation with them. With the consensus of the majority of community,
the VDC finalized the subproject proposal with the technical assistance of the NVDP-PPIU team.

Bidding Process : The bid evaluation and bid selection procedures were prepared within the framework of
community empowerment concept, and transparency and accountability principles. The bids were
submitted directly to the VDC at the public bid opening session and the BEC evaluated the bids and
selected the appropriate bidder. The PPIU accepted the recommendation for bid selection if the evaluation
process was correctly followed and the bid price was within the acceptable range, and the contract was
signed between VDC and Contractor.

Subproject Implementation : The subproject implementation mechanism involved: (i) the VDC as the
sub-project owner, (ii) the NVDP as technical advisor and financier, and (iii) the contractor as construction
service provider. In order to build the VDC capacity in this role, the NVDP provides them with training
and technical support.

The following 120 subprojects were implemented during the project implementation period.
                                                       Number of Subproject
                       Road            Bridge          Irrigation       Water Supply           Sanitation
    Province                                                                                         Number        Total
                 Village  Length           Length             Length            Number                            Village
                           (m)    Village    (m)   Village      (m)  Village     of wells Village       of
                                                                                                     latrines
 Kampong Cham      24     38,402    0         0      0           0     2           14        14        2,043        40
 Kampong Thom      21     38,197    1        12      0           0     7           49        1         120          30
 Kratie            9      17,135    2        45      4         2,880   2           10        13        2,036        30
 Stung Treng       3       5,220    6        142     0           0     0           0         11        1,426        20
 Total             57     98,954    9        199     4         2,880  11           73        39        5,625        120




Water Use and Hygiene Education : The Water Use and Hygiene Education activities were carried out to
complement the village water supply and community sanitation in the 50 villages.

Province             District   Commune         Village    Family     Villages with Water and Sanitation
                                                                                       Subproject
                                                                      Family latrine  Combined wells   Drilled wells

Kg. Cham                3             7           16          3080         14                  2
Kg. Thom                2             2           8            920          1                  7
Kratie                  3             5           15          3974         13                                      2
Stung Treng             2             6           11          1854         11
Total                   10           20           50          9828         39                9                    2


NVDP Monitoring and Evaluation System Establishment and Process : NVDP's participatory impact
monitoring and evaluation system was established in 2002 at the provincial level, recording and
summarizing the assessments from the villages involved. The NVDP trained the VDCs and communities on
the Participatory M&E Data Collection and Assessment methods and assisted VDCs in conducting first,



                                                      - 35 -

   second and third round data collection and analysis.

   Civil Construction : The NVDP project has constructed 9 district offices at the target districts, and 3 PPIU
   Offices and 1 PIU office were constructed at the target four provinces. All these office buildings were
   handed over to the respective PDRDs at the end of the Project period. In Phnom Penh, the NVDP has
   assisted MRD to renovate the MRD Head office.
            Province            District   PPIU Office     PIU Office       Office               Total
                                 office                                   Renovation
   Kampong Cham                    3             -             1               -                   4
   Kampong Thom                    2             1             -               -                   3
   Kratie                          2             1             -               -                   3
   Stung Treng                     2             1             -               -                   3
   Phnom Penh (MRD)                -             -             -               1                   1
   Total                           9             3             1               1                  14


   Project Documentations : Since the NVDP was set out as an Innovation and Learning project, the project
   process and lessons learned were documented and disseminated through the National and Provincial level
   workshops. The following Key documents were prepared by the NVDP : (1) Operation Manuals (Four
   volumes) (In Khmer and English), (2) Lessons Learned on the LDP process (In Khmer and English), (3)
   PRA and VAP of the 120 villages, (4) Village Data of the target 120 villages, (5) Training Manuals and
   Technical Guidelines of the Subproject, (6) Implementation, and Operation and Maintenance Management,
   (7) Water Use and Hygiene Education Materials

   c. Project Financing
   Funds allocated under credit 3216 KH of the Northeast Village Development Project (NVDP) were made
   available when it affectively was declared on 11 November 1999. The PHRD Japanese Grant had become
   effective earlier. The total funding for this project per Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was as per
   below:
                              a) IDA Credit                          : SDR equivalent 3,600,000
                              b) Royal Government of Cambodia: US$            316,000
                              c) The PHRD Japanese Grant:                    US$        702,000

   At the end of Project (as of 30 June 2004), actual expenditure was (provisionally) as below:
               Category                       IDA             PHRD          GCF              Total
1. Works                                 197,787.43                      22,179.61      219,967.04
   2. Goods                              354,613.34                      48,378.86      402,992.20
   3. Consultants service                1,351,607.42     248,654                       1,600,261.36
   4. Grants (subprojects) + SEILA       2,144,488.99                                   2,144,488.99
   5. Operating Cost                     630,531.26                      79,208.17      709,721.44
   6. Counterpart Allowance                                              52,650.00      52,650.00
   Total Expenditure                                                                    5,130,081.03
   Allocation Budget                     5,000,000.00     702,000.00     316,000.00     6,018,000.00
Percentage of Actual Withdraw from       94               35             64
the allocation
                                                                                                  (Currency in US$)




                                                        - 36 -

  Community Cash Contribution : As per the Subproject Agreement between NVDP and Community, the
  communities contributed cash equivalent to the 3% of total project cost and 9% in kind or labor. Local cash
  contributions by province by the end of Project are summarized below:
                                                                                                   (Currency in US$)
       Province                Total            Total        Percentage     Expenditure       Remaining
                              Estimated       Received      of collection     of VDCs          Balance
                              Amount           Amount
   Kampong Cham                 16,707.37      14,255.94            85%          9,592.45          4,633.49
  Kampong Thom                    12,855.00     8,125.13            63%          5,342.36          2,782.77
  Kratie                          14,628.32    11,907.10            81%          7,781.53          4,125.57
  Stung Treng                      7,419.89     7,664.34           103%          6,358.56          1,305.78
Total                           51,610.58      41.922.51            81%         29,074.90        12,847.61
                                                                                                   (Currency in US$)


  These local cash contributions were used for the administration and management expenditures of VDCs
  and the remaining balance are kept with the VDCs for the use of subproject maintenance cost in future. The
  NVDP had prepared the guidelines and procedures for VDC to use the remaining balance of cash
  contribution.

  (d) Project Staffing and Institutional Arrangements
  Originally the NVDP Management Structure included two tire management system: (i) the Project Steering
  Committee (PSC) at the National level and (ii) the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Provincial
  Project Implementation Units (PPIU) at the Project level. The PSC was chaired the Secretary of State of
  the MRD and composed with an Undersecretary of State, the Director General of MRD and the National
  Project Manager, and staffed by an Executive Officer (Project Liaison Officer). The PIU was headed by
  the National Project Manager with the assistance of Advisors and Technical Staffs. Each target province
  has PPIU and headed by the Provincial Project Manager (PPM) supported by the Local Development
  Facilitators and Technical Staffs.

  At the beginning of 2002, (March 2002), the Project Management Team was restructured as shown in
  aiming to concentrate more on the implementation management of field activities. The Project Management
  Team was led by a Project Director assisted by an Assistant Project Director at PIU. PIU was led by the
  Assistant Project Director supervising the field activities while the Project Director concentrate more on the
  overall supervision and project coordination at National level. PIU and PPIU teams were remained as
  original structure.

  The project staffs were mixed at initial stage with the external recruited project staffs (contractual staffs)
  and counterpart staffs from the MRD/ PDRD staffs. However, later stage, the PDRD counterpart staffs
  were stopped and number of staffs were also varied year to year depending upon the work plan
  requirements.

  2. ASSESSMENT
  (a)      Project Achievements

  Achieving the Development Objectives
  The key elements of the NVDP development objective have been met and the critical indicators have also
  been successfully initiated.

  (i)      Development Objective 1: to introduce decentralized, participatory rural approaches to



                                                       - 37 -

reduce poverty in some of the under-served areas of Cambodia;

NVDP focused on the decentralization at the village level, which is the lowest stratum of the Rural
Development Structure. NVDP established and reactivated 120 VDCs at every target village and
introduced the Local Development Process, through which the VDCs and beneficiary communities were
practiced and participated in the every step of the community development activities. The NVDP activities
are village-based interventions; and planned and managed by the direct beneficiaries through the VDCs.
The NVDP project was constructed VDC-Based Village-level Engagement Process and the project
management responsibilities were decentralized directly to the VDCs, which are closer to direct
beneficiaries at village level. The VDCs are viewed as the foundation of bottom-up rural development
structure and the basis for achieving participatory and sustainable rural development. The positions of the
VDCs and community leaders were strengthened in the Rural Development setting, especially VDCs were
recognized as the competent, and self-reflective community-based agencies. The VDCs are assuming
primary responsibility for planning, organizing and managing village development and constitute a focal
point for interaction with all government departments, development agencies and funding sources. Through
the VDCs' initiatives and leadership, the beneficiary communities participated and contributed to the
subproject (community development activities) implementation, as well as operation and maintenance
management responsibilities.

The LDP process encouraged and created opportunities for community empowerment and project
ownership at village level. NVDP had facilitated and trained the VDCs for mobilizing the community's
active participation. The beneficiaries participated in rural assessment, village action plan preparation for
community development, local planning, and local resource mobilization for program implementation. They
also actively participated and contributed (cash, in-kind and labor) to the construction of rural
infrastructure works, and participated in the participatory impact monitoring process. This method aims
mainly at promoting the self-confidence of the rural people in decision-making and further enhancing the
ability of solving their own problems in the community by themselves.

The NVDP encouraged and facilitated the application of good governance principles at village level.
Transparency and accountability are practiced through village level meetings, participatory assessment and
planning process, public-open forums, village information bulletins, and participatory impact monitoring
exercises.

The NVDP also supported the Government's Decentralization and Deconcentration process. According to
the Government's decentralization framework, the Commune Councils becomes the lowest level of elected
government with the responsibility to lead local development process funded through the Commune/
Sangkat Fund.

The VDCs are selected through a simple open election, and are civil society organizations; not part of the
Local Government. While Commune Councils are politically oriented government agency, the VDC is
nonpolitical biased and socially-motivated civil society (NGO). NVDP encouraged the VDCs involvement
and closed cooperation with the Commune Councils and NVDP facilitated the integration of NVDP
supported village level engagements into the Commune Councils' planning process. In the vast majority of
NVDP target villages (113 out of 120 villages- 94%), VDCs were invited to participate in the commune
planning process, and assist Commune Councils in selection of projects and local resources mobilization.
The VDCs advocated development plans of VAP of their villages for inclusion in the Commune
Development Plan. Commune Councils have overwhelmingly accepted VAP-listed development priorities
from all 113 of the 113 participating targeted villages in all four provinces. These experiences are
encouraging VDCs and communities for participating in the community development planning process.


                                                    - 38 -

Through its subproject implementation, the NVDP supported VDCs and communities in two-fold benefits:
(i) physical improvements of rural infrastructure and community assets; and (ii) more importantly,
provision of opportunities for practical experiences (such of on-the-job training opportunity) of managing
the community development activities

(ii)     The Decentralization process in the NVDP's framework emphasized more on creation of the
environment and capacity building of community and its leaders (VDCs) to give communities louder
voice in determining how local resources are used in the interest of poverty reduction at community
level.

The NVDP has successfully introduced and demonstrated the success of local development process through
its village level engagements. It should be noted that, the NVDP has just initiated this process and still its
early stage of this kind of development at village level and among the communities. The continuations of
such practices are very much depending on the political commitment and administrative supports of the
authorities and external donor and development partners' spiritual and financial supports.

(iii) to gain the experience in managing such programs needed by the Royal Government for
      formulating and carrying out a cohesive national strategy for rural development in the post
      Project period.

To attain this development objective, the NVDP set the immediate objective to complete documentation of
the NVDP activities as learning experiences that will serve to develop the long-term follow-up project.
        The MRD has been piloting the community-based rural development concept through the NVDP
and therefore it was set up within the Learning and Innovative framework. The NVDP is designed as a
community-based rural development process rather than a program, which aimed at the village level active
engagements.

The NVDP had produced various documents such as operation manuals, lessons learned papers, technical
guidelines and education materials in both languages of English and Khmer, organized National level
workshops and provincial and district level workshops, through which the NVDP's experiences were
disseminated and reviewed. PRA and VAPs were distributed to MRD and other National level and
provincial level government institutions and rural development agencies. The NVDP Newsletters and IEC
materials were produced time to time for information dissemination to development partners including the
policy makers at National and Provincial levels.

At the end of Project, the NVDP organized the Ministerial level workshop at the MRD participating
high-level management officials and policy makers from the MRD and PDRDs.

Aiming to the successful implementation of the learning process and replicating the NVDP's experiences in
future rural development program management, the NVDP had emphasized the capacity building of project
staffs that are mostly drawn from the MRD and PDRD sources.

The experiences of managing the community-based rural development programs also shared with the
PDRD management and provincial level authorities.

The key achievements of the NVDP for this objective is gained through various policy dialogues at MRD
policy and decision making level. The NVDP assisted MRD preparing the concept papers leading to
reshaping the landscape of Rural Development Structure, MRD's Long Term Strategy Development


                                                   - 39 -

framework, VDC-based Rural Development Concept, and Local Governance through Rural Development
Programs.

(b) Other significant outcomes and impacts, and benefits to be derived from the project

(1)     Building the foundation for community-based rural development structure : The most
significant outcomes of the NVDP is building a foundation for the community-based rural development
structure at village level. VDCs have been formed and supported through various rural development
projects, but the NVDP is one the foremost project, in such scale of the community-based development
program, working directly with VDCs and provided such extensive capacity building of VDCs and
communities.

The NVDP has formed 120 VDCs and trained on local development process including following:
Community mobilization and leadership; PRA; VAP preparation; Identification of subproject and
preparation of subproject proposals; Community-managed bidding process; Local resource mobilization;
Contract management and field supervision; Village Level Operation and Maintenance Management of
rural infrastructures and community assets (subproject outputs); Participatory impact study (participatory
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of subproject activities); Transparent village fund management;
VDC Exchange Visits (inter-provincial study tours)

The NVDP has strengthened the position of VDCs in new Rural Development setting (particularly link
with the Commune Council- Planning and Budgeting Committee), and the VDCs gained good experiences
and firm role in the rural development structure.

However, it should be noted that, these VDCs are still their early stage, and require the follow-up
reinforcement to make these foundation to stand up.

(2)     Subproject Impacts : Subproject implementation has made two fold positive impacts to the
communities; (i) physical improvements for rural infrastructure and community assets and (ii) VDCs build
up self-confidence in their project management capability.




                                  Rural Road Subproject Impact Assessment
                                      Indicators                          Assessment
      Road assessed as high benefit                                          100%
     Time saving for trip to market/ school/ pagoda (in minutes)              16
     Expenses for trip to market/ school/ pagoda (in Riel)                    948
     % of households regularly using road during rainy season                99%
     Satisfaction with the roads maintenance                                 91%
     % of village households contributing to maintenance                     61%
     No of households reached by VDC information                             10844
     % of households who contributed to construction cost                    95%
     Satisfaction with the quality of construction works                     77 %
     Roads rehabilitated (Laterite), in meter                               77,174
     Roads rehabilitated (earth), in meter                                  23,785
      Person-day training on maintenance and supervision                      364




                                                       - 40 -

                                Bridge Subproject Impact Assessment
                                 Indicators                        Assessment
Goals (Benefit)
Bridges assessed as high benefit                                     100%
Time saving for trip to market/ school/ pagoda (in minutes)            10
Cost saving for trip to market/ school/ pagoda (in Riel)              511
% of households regularly using bridge                                98%
Purpose (Utilization)
Satisfaction with the bridges maintenance                            100%
% of village households contributing to maintenance                   78%
No of households reached by VDC information dissemination            1297
% of households who contributed to construction cost                  89%
Output (Services)
Satisfaction with the quality of construction works                   89%
Number of bridges constructed                                          11
Satisfaction with the appropriateness of bridge design                75%
Person-day training on maintenance and supervision                     53


                       Village Water Supply Subproject Impact Assessment
                                 Indicators                        Assessment
Goals (Benefit)
Water supply assessed as high benefit                                100%
Time saving for transport of water (total number of hours)           24995
Average amount of water used per household per day (L)                468
% of population with water/ sanitation related diseases               1%
Purpose (Utilization)
Satisfaction with the wells maintenance                              100%
% of village households contributing to maintenance                   64%
No of people using wells                                             6,047
% of households who contributed to construction cost                 100%
Output (Services)
Satisfaction with the quality of construction works                   82%
Number of wells constructed                                            73
Person-day training on maintenance and supervision                    368




                                                  - 41 -

                           Community Sanitation Subproject Impact Assessment
                                      Indicators                               Assessment
      Goals (Benefit)
     Latrine assessed high benefit                                                97%
     Villages with clean environment                                             100%
     % of population with water/ sanitation related diseases                      1%
     Purpose (Utilization)
     Satisfaction with the Levels of maintenance of latrines                     100%
     % of family latrines in village that are well maintained                     96%
     Number of people using latrines                                             32537
     % of households who contributed to construction cost                        100%
     Output (Services)
     Satisfaction with the quality of construction works                          87%
     Number of latrines constructed                                              5625
      Person-day training on operation and maintenance                           2,534


                            Small-scale Irrigation Subproject Impact Assessment
                                      Indicators                               Assessment
      Goals (Benefit)
     Irrigation schemes assessed as high benefit                                  50%
     Additional rice production in irrigation schemes (tons/ year)                262
     Value of 1 ha of irrigated land (in % of pre-project value)                 160%
     % of families benefiting from irrigation scheme                              26%
     Purpose (Utilization)
     Satisfaction with the Irrigation schemes maintenance                         75%
     Actual irrigated area (ha per year)                                          211
     % of irrigated area actually irrigated                                       79%
     % of beneficiary households who contributed to construction cost            100%
     Output (Services)
     Quality of construction works (% 1 or 2 of 5)                               100%
     Increased reservoir storage capacity (m3)                                  160,000
     Number of water gates constructed                                             17
      Person-day training on operation and maintenance                             27


The intangible impact of the subprojects on the VDCs and communities are various including the
self-reliance attitude, self-confidence and trust building among the communities and community initiatives
development through out the subproject development process. Due to the situation, the rural communities
have been experienced with spoon-fed relief-oriented assistance, especially the years immediately after the
gaining of the reconciliation and peace development. In many areas of the NVDP target villages, the
communities were hesitated for their participation and contribution to the subproject implementation at
early stage. Many people expressed their concerns with untrustworthy misappropriation of community
funds. The NVDP teams worked hard to gain the villagers trust and exhibited the effectiveness of their
contribution through transparency and accountability of community cash contribution management system.
At the ending part of the Project, many villagers expressed their trust in their community leaders and
increased their contribution to the Project activities. Through this local contribution, the communities
started understanding of the self-reliance and self-help spirit for their development. The NVDP encouraged
the community initiatives in the subproject operation and maintenance management system establishment.




                                                        - 42 -

(c) Prospects for the project's sustainability
The MRD's long-term vision is that the Cambodian rural community will be able to manage and improve
their lives and the physical environment in sustainable manner through self-reliance and self-sufficient
development approaches within few decades.

(i)      Institutional Sustainability : Since the formulation of the Project, the NVDP concerned the
sustainable management of the subproject activities, and the Subproject Agreement between NVDP and
VDC emphasized on the operation and maintenance responsibilities of community managed organization
under the supervision of the VDC. At the subproject formulation stage, every subproject formed the
Subproject Committee for contract management and supervision of village level project implementation
activities.

     After the completion of the subproject construction, the NVDP has organized district level workshops
     for establishment of the village-base community-managed maintenance system, including VDC
     members and district level and provincial level technical and line departments. The NVDP prepared the
     community-based maintenance committee structure and procedures for financial matters, resource
     mobilization and institutional structure.

     This proposal was piloted in Kampong Cham province, and submitted to the Provincial Governor of
     Kampong Cham through the Provincial Department of Rural Development. After the discussions with
     the local authorities the Provincial Governor issued the guidelines and instruction for establishments of
     village level subproject maintenance management committee.

     Based on these guidelines, the PPIU facilitated the formation of the Subproject Maintenance
     Management Committees under the VDCs at village level and provided basic technical training and
     financial resource mobilization approaches and management procedures. Village level Maintenance
     Management Committees were formed for rural road subproject, bridge, irrigation systems and water
     supply subprojects, and the VDC will be responsible for education and monitoring of the maintenance
     of the family latrine, which is responsibility of individual householder.

(iii)    Financial Sustainability : Villagers have demonstrated a high sense of ownership and willingness
to maintain infrastructure and facilities when they are required to contribute to the financing of the
subproject activities. In order to ensure sustainability, the beneficiaries were informed their responsibilities
of O&M financial contribution at the initiation of the subproject. At the end of the Project, NVDP has
transferred the unspent local cash contributions to VDCs with guidelines for establishment of O&M budget
lines.

(iv)     Functional Service Sustainability : At the end of Project, all the subprojects management were
transferred to respective PDRDs for technical and administrative support to VDCs for operation and
maintenance management. The VDCs and the Subproject Maintenance Management Committees will be
supported functional services by the local government authorities and provincial and district level technical
line departments. The NVDP arranged this O&M management system with high expectation of prospective
results for sustainability of project interventions. However, it is too early to get real results until some years
in future.

(d) The Bank's and borrower's performance (including any consultants) of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement

In general terms, the NVDP satisfied the support of the Bank's team, especially of Dr. Louise Scura, the


                                                      - 43 -

Task Manager and her team members. Both parties (borrower and the Bank) have performed satisfactorily
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding
between Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry of Rural Development.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

