Report No. PID6959
Project Name                     Cambodia-Northeast Village Development
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Decentralization
Project ID                       KHPE58841
Borrower                         Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Rural Development
Estimated Project Cost           $6.2 million (LIL)
Date PID Prepared                September 30, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 10, 1998
Board Date                       January 21, 1999
Country Background
1.      With an estimated 1997 population of 10.6 million and average GNP of
$260, Cambodia is one of the 20 poorest nations in the world. In contrast to
some of its neighbors in the region which have already enjoyed rapid growth
for some time, Cambodia is a post-conflict country, still recovering from over
25 years of civil war and isolation, during which much of its human, social
and economic capital was damaged or destroyed. Following a period of almost
exclusive assistance from the former Communist Bloc, the Peace Accords of
October 1991 opened the way for assistance by the wider international
community. Considerable progress has been made since 1993 in stabilizing and
rehabilitating the economy, though the legacy of the past conflict has
continued to exert a constraint on the rebuilding of social and economic
capital. So far, the main effects of the economy's resurgence have been seen
in the capital city of Phnom Penh and a few secondary centers, with limited
benefit for most of the rural population.
Sector Background
2.      Most Cambodian households -- over 80 percent -- live in rural areas and
depend primarily on agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries,
for their living. There are about 1.3 million smallholder farming households,
of which many are headed by widowed or single women, with an average household
size of 6 persons, cultivating an average of 2 hectares of land per household.
3.      Agriculture constitutes almost half Cambodia's GDP and over 75t of its
domestic exports, mainly timber and rubber. The development of agriculture and
a more diversified rural economy will be crucial in helping Cambodia to meet
the numerous challenges that it faces. Amongst these are the need to feed a
population that, at its present growth rate of 2.8w p.a., will double in 25
years, and to contain unsupportable rates of migration into the towns by
creating employment in the rural economy. A critical challenge is to build the
Government's capacity to carry out agriculture and rural development programs,
with participation of the private sector in implementation, in order to reduce
the present heavy reliance on international assistance.



4.       Reflecting the country's continued recovery from civil war and social
turmoil, two main issues facing development of the rural economy are:
(a) poverty reduction - the Government has not yet found the means to achieve
a significant and broad-based restoration of economic and social well-being
for poorest members of the rural population, which suffered great deprivation
and social trauma from years of conflict and is now largely impoverished; and
(b) natural resource management - the country's natural resource base, on
which the prospects for economic development largely depend for the
foreseeable future, is being eroded as a result of short-term financial
pressures and the public sector's weakened management capability.
Government's Rural Development Strategy
5.       The Government's strategy for addressing these two main issues is
clearly formulated but suffers from unusually difficult implementation
constraints and human resource limitations. Despite recent initiatives, its
approach to rural development is still too centralized and -top-down-,
partly reflecting a persistence of thinking and practice from earlier periods,
as well as being circumscribed by domestic snd regional political factors. The
Government realizes that top priority must be given to spreading development
more widely through the economy, and to do so successfully, planning and
implementation of rural development strategies has to be brought much closer
to intended beneficiaries in the villages, whose commitment and participation
must also be secured if development is to be equitable and sustainable.
CAS Objectives
6.      The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) gives high priority to
support for accelerating the pace of rural development and reducing poverty,
80t of which is found amongst the rural population. As noted in the CAS,
-fostering broad-based economic growth will constitute the primary thrust of
IDA's poverty reduction efforts-. The project would make a substantial
contribution to achieving this objective at area and at national levels.
Poverty reduction and giving greater priority to rural areas in the allocation
of public investment funds, are the two overarching objectives of the
Government's Social and Economic Development Plan (SEDP) for 1996-2000.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      Accelerating rural devclopment is a top priority of Cambodia's
development strategy and the proposed project follows recommendations of the
Bank's sector work and CAS. Besides its impact on reducing poverty and
promoting development of the rural economy, successful implementation will
demonstrate the effectiveness of a simple, participatory rural development
approach, capable of being replicated in other parts of Cambodia. The
Government looks to the Bank for technical support in designing rural
development projects appropriate for its unusually difficult situation, and
strategic support for planning long-term economic and institutional strategies
for rural development.
8.      Because of Cambodia's critical institutional weaknesses and human
resource constraints, the proposed Northeast Village Development Project, to
- 2-



be financed by IDA as a 'Learning and Innovation Loan' (LIL), will be mainly
devoted to knowledge acquisition, piloting of different types of investment
subproject, systems development and testing, personnel training and planning
for a possible larger investment project.
Project Objectives
9.      The overall goal of the project is to develop a replicable model and
necessary implementing capacities for improving rural livelihoods by testing
simple, participatory, poverty-oriented approaches to rural development.
10.     To achieve this goal, the project aims to substantially improve the rural
economy in some of the poorer parts of the northeastern and central regions,
in the provinces of Kompong Cham, Kompong Thom, Kratie and Stung Treng. These
include some of the poorest areas of Cambodia, mainly because of their
inaccessibility and absence of development initiatives..
Project Area
11.     The project area comprises 12 Districts in four central and northern
provinces lying astride the Mekong connected by the Mekong river with the
markets of Phnom Penh and lying at the crossroads of trade routes with Vietnam
-- Kompong Cham, Kompong Thom, Kratie and Stung Treng. It has an estimated
1996 population of 1.55 million, living in about 220 communes and covering
about 20t of Cambodia's total land area. Soils and agricultural potential are
good in much of the flatter lands, especially Kompong Cham, while the uplands
are largely under forest. Livestock numbers are important, including both
bovines and small stock, but losses from disease are high. Most of the
population are Khmer but about 20t belong to ethnic minorities, practising
their own customs and speaking their own languages, and mostly living in the
more remote upland areas.
12.     The main development constraints of the area are:
a) lack of access to markets, information and public services: the area
includes some 3000 km of rural roads and tracks, and over 1000 bridges, most
of which are impracticable for motor vehicles having been destroyed in the war
or simply unmaintained for 30 years. Partly for this reason, 80t of the
population lives close to the Mekong and other rivers, which assure passage
for freight transport into and within the region;
b) lack of water in the dry season for human and livestock needs, irrigation
of vegetable plots and for fishing, and also frequent flooding in the wet
season;
c) lack of knowhow, inputs and credit for increasing agricultural production,
including rice and other annual crops, animal production and low-intensity
fish rearing;
d) lack of knowhow, inputs and credit for starting rural enterprises (e.g.
building and construction, transport, bicycle and moto repair shops, ox-cart
manufacture, fishing gear manufacture/repair, village saw-mill, other
services, etc);
e) weakness of institutions at provincial down to village levels to relate
rural development initiatives to local needs and opportunities and to secure
local participation in the undertaking of community-level investments; and
f) lack of basic data for land use planning and natural resource management
(e.g. for agricultural settlement schemes, forestry concessions, long-range
water resource planning).
-3-



13.     Such constraints can be overcome through a poverty-oriented,
decentralized and demand-driven program of rural development, in which
investment priorities are locally determined and implementation
responsibilities devolved to beneficiaries.
Project Description
14.     The project's development objective is to develop a replicable model and
necessary implementing capacities for improving rural livelihoods by piloting
decentralized, participatory and poverty - oriented approaches to rural
development in NE Cambodia.
15.     The project would have two main components: the first, to develop and
test a participatory system for identifying, financing, constructing and
maintaining productive rural investment subprojects, with the Government role
primarily as strategist, and partner agencies (NGOs, international
organizations, private contractors) as direct service providers. The second
component would be institution building, to help develop the capacities of
local institutions from village up to national level to play their parts in
planning and managing paricipatory rural development programs.
Project Implementation
16.     Overall project management will be the responsibility of a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) established under MRD and situated in the project
area's main town, Kompong Cham. Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs)
will be established in each project province. The PCU will be responsible for
(i) project planning and coordination and the central level and coordination
of activities being carried out by participating provinces; (ii) the
production and updating of the project operational manual and technical
guidelines; (iii) all project-wide aspects of procurement and disbursement,
and the implementation of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iv)
preparation of implementation reports and annual/semi-annual workplans; and
(v) design of training programs for MRD and provincial staff. The PPMUs will
be responsible for the day to day implementation and oversight of the
establishment of Village Development Committees (VDCs), PRA planning
activities, subproject development, and provincial training and monitoring
activities. Sub-projects will be implemented by the VDCs with the assistance
from provincial government staff and project partners. The role to be played
by grassroots village leaders (formal and informal) in implementation will be
important, and the support of existing social organizations in the area, such
as NGOs and pagoda committees, will be enlisted by the project.
Special Operational Emphases
17.     The main operational emphasis (POC) of the project would be on poverty,
with secondary emphases on decentralization and participation.
Project Benefits
18.       The selected districts have no large rural development programs in
operation, and through the proposed project, sectoral and local initiatives
will be integrated in such a way as to address the needs of poor villages,
develop provincial institutional capacity and produce results which will have
a significant impact on reducing poverty in the medium term. The project will
make grant funds available to local communities for developing their social,
- 4 -



economic and physical infrastructure.
The project will help to acquire knowledge and experience leading to the
following benefits:
Economic Benefits:
- Improved economic conditions for about 20,000 poor rural households as a
result of improved market access and upgraded productive infrastructure, such
as rehabilitation of village tracks, bridges, water supply and small scale
irrigation works.
Social Benefits:
- By demonstration of participatory and bottom-up planning approaches rural
communities will become more directly involved in future development efforts
Other Benefits:
- Institution building and support for public administration
decentralization. The private sector and local NGOs will find opportunities to
develop their activities in the area.
Target Population:
- Local populations in 12 selected districts in the provinces of Kompong
Cham, Kompong Thom, Kratie and Stung Treng.
Project Sustainability
19.       The ultimate sustainability of approaches to be tried under the project
cannot be assured ex ante, but the LIL format itself encourages sustainability
by building in incentives for maximising local involvement and for learning
from the results. Moreover, the prospects for sustainability would be
maximised by the proposed approaches of:
- up-front participation of communities through the PRA process;
- required contribution of beneficiaries to sub-project construction cost;
- requirement of agreed plans for subproject operation and maintenance; and
- close monitoring of progress and evaluation of results.
Environmental Aspects
20.     The proposed project presents no environmental or resettlement issues and
is expected to contibute to improved environmental planning at local levels.
Through its PRA and community planning approach the project will test
mechanisms for including environmental,natural resource and land use planning
at the community level. Village investments will involve small scale
subprojects aimed at improving the livelihoods of participating resource-poor
communities. Participatory village planning will take into account
environmental aspects during the formulation of community plans and proposals
for subprojects. The subproject menu would deliberately be kept flexible but
would include rehabilitation of farm access tracks, small bridges, wells for
village water supply, and small scale irrigation and drainage works.
Construction of village infrastructure will so far as possible observe
practices to minimize construction impacts. This will be reviewed periodically
by the proposed subproject monitoring system.
21.     Preparation is under way of a proposed biodiversity conservation project
which would provide support for the management of critical natural resources
in the northeast of Cambodia through strengthened management of selected
protected areas adjacent or close to the NRDP area, and through awareness-
building and other means to limit impacts of illegal logging and shifting
upland cultivation.
-5-



Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
H.E. Ngy Chanphal
NVDP Project Coordinator
1818 H Street, NW
Ministry of Rural Development
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Fax: 855 23 366790
Tel: 855 23 366440
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 6 -



