Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1908 
Operation Name 
THIRD POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY CREDIT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General information and communications sector (60%);General public 
administration sector (40%) 
Project ID 
P083313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENTOF BENIN 
Implementing Agency 
INANCE AND SECTORAL MINISTRIES 
Date PID Prepared 
October 25, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 20, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 25, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Benin's per capita GDP is about $440 in 2004, with agriculture contributing to over one-
third of GDP and 
employing two-
thirds of the active population.  The population has been estimated at about 6.8 million in the 
2002 census. Cotton, the main export crop, accounting for 76 percent of domestic exports on average in 2000
-
2002, consists largely of cotton ginning and of small enterprises involved in the production of basic consumer 
goods for the local market and account
ing for about 14 percent of GDP. The large share of services (50 percent 
of GDP) partly reflects Benin's role as a transportation and transit hub for the landlocked neighboring countries 
and their principal trading partner Nigeria. Relative to most other countries in the sub-
region, and to its starting 
point of economic collapse and political crisis in 1989, Benin has achieved remarkable progress in sustaining 
robust growth while building a pluralist democracy over the past decade. Up to 2003 growth has gen
erally 
exceeded other economies in the region and productivity gains have allowed per capita incomes to rise. 
Economic growth slowed in 2004 due to unfavorable world cotton prices and trade restrictions imposed by 
Nigeria.  However, growth is forecasted to
revive in 2005. The Government's structural adjustment program has 
been successful in establishing fiscal discipline, opening up the economy, privatizing most public enterprises, 
and strengthening private sector incentives. Most social indicators have imp
roved steadily throughout the 
1990s, particularly for education and health. But as Benin's recently completed PRSP explains, these 
achievements did not translate into significant progress in poverty reduction.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The overarching objec
tives of the proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs) series are to support 
the implementation of Benin's PRSP and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and carry out its 
own development and poverty reduction programs. Broadly, PRSCs
focus on policies and reforms with the 
highest poverty impact and where IDA has a comparative advantage. Also, given the comprehensiveness of the 
PRSP and the high cost of its implementation, PRSCs are designed to assist the Government in establishing 
priorities and implementing a rolling core reform program. 
 
More specifically, the objectives of the PRSCs during the 2004-
06 period are to support the Government of 
Benin (GoB) in its efforts to reduce poverty through implementing policies designed to: (i) m
aintain 
Page  2
macroeconomic stability and accelerate economic growth focusing on the effective implementation and 
completion of the privatization program, the setting of a sound regulatory framework in liberalized sectors, the 
improving of private sector investm
ent climate, and of the legal and judicial systems; and (ii) improve the 
delivery, quality, and coverage of basic services while improving expenditure efficiency. 
 
The objectives of PRSCs1 and 2 have been to: (i) help create the basis for private-sector-le
d
economic growth 
by supporting the Government's macroeconomic program and improving the investment climate; (ii) support 
the GoB’s public expenditure management reform program; and (iii) support the reform of the public resources 
management and help finan
ce the Government's expenditure program in key sectors, focusing on the delivery of 
basic services tailored to the needs of the poor. PRSC2 expanded the coverage to three new sectors (
agriculture, 
rural transportation and justice)
...
The proposed PRSC III 
will maintain a core focus on economic growth and 
governance, supporting service delivery through improved public expenditure management, financial 
decentralization, and expanding results-
oriented budgeting to new sectors.  A new emphasis will be placed on
private sector development, on civil service reforms that will help instill a practice of monitoring and 
evaluation, including at the local level, and also on Justice sector reforms that will improve the business 
climate. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The ser
ies of PRSCs is intended to cover one PRSP cycle and be synchronized with GoB’s budget cycle. It 
would contain clear performance benchmarks, policy measures, and outcome indicators for each of the PRSCs. 
These would provide an anchor for the Bank's overall
support to Benin's policy and institutional reform and 
public expenditure priorities. Each PRSC will be put in place and disbursed on the basis of the up-
front 
completion of a set of prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress of the country's so
cial and structural 
reform agenda in support of its poverty reduction strategy. Each annual tranche, as part of the rolling medium
-
term program framework, will build on the previous one; its prior actions will be formulated and agreed upon 
drawing on the progress towards benchmarks laid out at the outset. 
 
While the PRSC1 covered three sectors in “emphasis mode” (rural water, health and basic education), two 
others in “maintenance mode (environment and forestry) and the public expenditure management reform 
as a 
core segment, PRSC2 was expanded to include agriculture, rural transport and justice
.
The inclusion of these 
new sectors reflects the fact that the GoB made a significant progress in developing and/or sharpening the 
sectoral strategy along with the id
entification of a credible agenda of reforms to increase public expenditure 
efficiency. However, progress in these new sectors is not yet sufficient in defining: (i) a full fledged results
-
based operational sector program; and (ii) a complete set of measur
able result/outcome indicators to monitor 
progress in achieving objectives (including the lack of baseline and targets). 
 
The proposed PRSC-3 plans further work in sectors added under PRSC-2 --
Agriculture, Justice, and Rural 
Transport -- in implementing s
ector strategies and developing program budgets that will contribute to the MTEF 
for 2007-
2009.  Continuing reforms in public expenditure management and in Health, Water, and Education 
will be especially targeted toward improving the efficiency of service 
delivery.  In addition, the new operation 
will place added emphasis on economic growth and cross cutting issues designed to make ongoing reforms 
more effective.  These include Private Sector development, Civil Service reforms, and fiscal 
deconcentration/decentralization.  Each of these reform agendas is multi-
sectoral in nature and can be especially 
productive in a multi-sector operation such as the PRSC. 
 
Page  3
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of the PRSC series, the operation h
as been classified as 
Development Policy Lending.  According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Development 
Policy Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply. In accordance with OP 
4.01, the Credit is categorized as a B without a separate Environmental Assessment.  
 
The PRSC program includes a component supporting reforms in the Environment sector.  These reforms have 
provided for training of environment sector and line ministry staff in identifying and impl
ementing measures for 
mitigating any residual adverse environmental or social impacts of public investment programs.  The 
Environment Agency of the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban Development (MEHU) has helped to 
create environmental impact ass
essment (EIA) cells in several line ministries, charged with implementing their 
respective Environmental and Social Management Plans, and will continue to oversee their activities.  Benin’s 
environment strategy is guided by a Medium-Term Strategic Plan (2002-
2006) that continues to be funded in 
the MEHU program budget.  In addition, Benin’s environmental compliance is supported by the environmental 
management activities in several sectoral investment projects supported by the Bank. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
35 
 Total 
35 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Nancy Claire Benjamin 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0189 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: nbenjamin@world
bank.org
