Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4241-BEN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 8, 2006
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 
4241-BEN
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated November 8, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). 
The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 20.2 million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,200,000) 
(“Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the currency of the French Republic. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
 finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère du Développement, de l’Economie et des Finances  
B.P. 302 
Cotonou 
Republic of Benin 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
MINFINANCES 
5009 MINFINOR 
 
(229) 21 30 18 51 
Cotonou 
 
5289 CAA 
 
 
(229) 21 31 53 56 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
or  1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Cyrille 
Oguin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Nils 
O. 
Tcheyan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following: 
To improve private sector development:  
·
Develop and adopt a revised strategy for private sector development, based on 
study recommendations on competitiveness, sources of growth, investment 
climate, integrated framework, and land assets securitization; and prepare a 
Letter of Policy.  
To improve performance in the agriculture sector:  
Satisfactorily implement the identified additional measures, which include: 
(a) 
Revise the institutional framework for representation of professionals in the 
cotton inter-professional organizations (AIC, CSPR, CAGIA); 
(b) 
Complete a new study on cotton inputs supply and marketing arrangements and 
ensure an effective implementation of its main recommendations with the 
2006/2007 harvesting campaign; and 
(c) 
Complete a study on a private-based cotton price stabilization mechanisms 
managed by the private sector. 
To improve population access to drinking water and better sanitation in rural and semi-urban 
areas: 
Adopt a strategic note for the professionalization of village-level water systems management  
and for the development of private/public partnership (PPP) for water system to manage  
ten (10) water
 supply systems, which will be constructed under the initiative “water in semi-urban 
centers”.  
To improve the performance of the national health system
:
·
Implement the sliding-scale and exemption mechanisms that provide the poor 
with a financially affordable access to quality health services in ten (10) health 
districts and prepare an implementation report.
 
To improve access to quality basic education: 
·
Implement the redeployment plan for teachers (redeployment and decentralized 
recruitment to fill 1,000 new contractual positions in the primary grades) in 
public schools, and improve teacher distribution within and across districts. 
Page  7
-
6
-
·
Adopt the new Education Sector Policy and Strategy Paper, to include literacy 
and gender. 
To improve the management of public finances and services: 
·
Submit the 2006 budget law to the National Assembly in line with 2006-2008 
MTEF ceilings and PRSP priorities. 
·
Achieve the targets set in the 2005 program-budgets in priority sectors/program. 
·
Adoption by the Cabinet of a decree relative to:  (i) the creation of internal 
control units within ministries (with nationwide competency); and (ii) the 
definition of professional norms and standards. 
·
Submit to the National Assembly the 2001 
budget draft “
loi de règlement
”
(audit of Budget execution) and establishment of an action plan for acceleration 
of the treatment by the 
Chambre des Comptes 
of
the pending budget audits 
(2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005). 
To improve the legal and judicial sector: 
·
Organization of examination to recruit 40 additional judges and 30 additional 
clerks of the court. 
To improve human resources management towards achieving sector policy objectives: 
·
Adopt a reform action plan for 2006-2008 that includes: (a) a strategy for 
increasing staffing within a sustainable framework; and (b) preparation of a new 
civil servant statute that takes into account performance-based management 
requirements. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in DTS) 
Single Tranche 
20,200,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
20,200,000 
Page  8
-
7
-
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to  
the Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the 
Recipient’s budget management system referred to in Part C of this Section 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their 
audit, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1: 
 
Commencing April 1, 2017 to and including October 
1, 2026 
1% 
Commencing April 1, 2027 to and including October 
1, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“CFA Franc” means the currency of the Borrower. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty as set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated July 28, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
5. 
 “Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  12
-
11
-
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
