                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                         May 10, 2012
                                                                            Report No.: AB7087
                                             (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name                     Tonga Economic Recovery Operation II
 Region                             EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Country                            Tonga
 Sector                             Central government administration (90%);General energy
                                    sector (10%)
 Operation ID                       P130824
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        KINGDOM OF TONGA
 Implementing Agency                INISTRY OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL PLANNING
 Date PID Prepared                  May 10, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        October 7, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board            November 15, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 Other Decision {Optional}          A decision was taken to

        Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
In recent years, Tonga has undertaken a number of important public sector and economic
reforms. In conjunction with its accession to the World Trade Organisation in 2007, the
Government of Tonga (GoT) thoroughly reformed its tax policy, and has subsequently
implemented comprehensive reforms to its customs and revenue administration. It has taken
steps to improve its business environment, which have been reflected in improved ratings on the
relevant International Finance Corporation Doing Business indicators over the last five years.
Tonga has also taken steps to move its public enterprises onto a more commercial footing,
including making progress with corporatisation and privatisation. Reflecting its reform efforts,
Tonga’s Country Policy and Institutional Assessment rating provided by the World Bank has
increased from 2.9 to 3.5 over the last five years, putting Tonga’s policy and institutional
performance above average for International Development Association countries.


Despite these successes, Tonga’s economy has been hit hard by a series of exogenous shocks,
which have caused the economy to contract, a significant fiscal gap to emerge, and poverty to
increase sharply. At the same time, Tonga has made the transition to a more democratic political
system.

The proposed operation is the second in a programmatic series of two development policy
operations. The operation will help the Government of Tonga manage severe economic
challenges following historic political reforms. It supports a focussed program of Government
reform priorities in public financial management, fiscal policy, structural reform, and social
protection while providing a vital fiscal buffer in the context of sustained revenue contraction.
The series of operations coincide with the term in office of Tonga’s first Government to be
selected by a majority-elected parliament and provide an opportunity for the Bank to support
Tonga at a critical juncture in its development process.

       Proposed Objective(s)
The proposed operation will assist the GoT to implement key aspects of its medium-term reform
agenda, while providing a predictable flow of resources in a challenging fiscal environment.

The proposed operation will help to sustain the momentum of key public sector and economic
reforms in Tonga, in support of the Tonga Strategic Development Framework (TSDF). The
public financial management reforms in the proposed operation will support the TSDF objective
of good governance, particularly with respect to accountability and transparency, as well as the
enabling theme on good fiscal management. The fiscal policy reforms will bolster two of the
enabling themes of the TSDF, on good fiscal management and the efficiency and effectiveness of
government. The structural reforms will support the infrastructure objective of the TSDF, as well
as the enabling theme on public enterprises. And the social protection reforms will contribute to
the TSDF’s first objective, of building strong, inclusive communities.

        Preliminary Description
The policy areas the proposed operation will support are: (i) strengthened public financial
management (PFM); (ii) strengthened fiscal policy; and (iii) structural reform in the energy
sector, public enterprises, and the business enabling environment.

In the area of public financial management, priorities reflect the importance of embedding
transparency and solid PFM foundations following recent political reforms. Under fiscal policy,
the agenda focuses on strengthening revenue effort to maintain delivery of public services
following substantial revenue declines. In relation to structural reform, the focus is on easing
constraints to viable sources of private sector development, particularly in the tourism sector.

The proposed operation will support the GoT to pursue the objectives of the TSDF within a
structured macroeconomic framework, which will help to strengthen the overall performance of
the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts
The proposed operation will help to alleviate the growing incidence of hardship facing
households in Tonga. Basic needs poverty has risen over the last decade, particularly in rural
areas and the outer islands. Between 2001 and 2009 the percentage of people living below the
basic needs poverty line increased by more than 10 percentage points, from 12.2 percent in 2001
to 22.5 percent in 2009. While the majority of the poor live on the main island, Tongatapu, the
sharpest increase in poverty over the last decade has occurred on the other islands – with basic
needs poverty rising from 11.8 percent to 22.9 percent of the population on the outer islands
between 2001 and 2009.
Budget support and associated improvements in public financial management will help the
Government to maintain the provision of core services to the public under difficult economic
circumstances. Reforms supported by this operation in the energy sector are expected to lead to a
reduction in the cost of energy and lower electricity tariffs for vulnerable groups. Reforms
related to SOEs and the business environment will support the creation of new economic and
employment opportunities.

Environment Aspects
The policy actions supported under the proposed operation would not have a negative effect on
Tonga’s environment, natural resources or forests. The policy actions supported under the
proposed operation aim to strengthen public financial management, strengthen fiscal policy,
advance structural reform and improve social protection. They do not bear directly on
environmental risks.



       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                    0
International Development Association (IDA)                                           5
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                     Total            5

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Tobias Haque
Title: Economist
Tel: +679-330-8000
Fax: +679-330-4045
Email: thaque2@worldbank.org
Location: Suva, Fiji (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Natalia Latu
Title: Director, Aid and Project Management Division
Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Tel: +676-24463
Email: nlatu@finance.gov.to


       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
