                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                September 18th
                                                                  Report No.: 73172-TO

 Operation Name                     Tonga Second Economic Recovery Operation
 Region                             EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Country                            Tonga
 Sector                             Central government administration (100%)
 Operation ID                       P130824
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        KINGDOM OF TONGA
 Implementing Agency                MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL PLANNING
 Date PID Prepared                  July 28, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        September 18, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board            November 15, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

        Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
In recent years, Tonga has undertaken a number of important public sector and economic
reforms. In conjunction with its accession to the World Trade Organisation in 2007, the
Government of Tonga (GoT) thoroughly reformed its tax policy, and has subsequently
implemented comprehensive reforms to its customs and revenue administration. It has taken
steps to improve its business environment, which have been reflected in improved ratings on the
relevant International Finance Corporation Doing Business indicators over the last five years.
Tonga has also taken steps to move its public enterprises onto a more commercial footing,
including making progress with corporatisation and privatisation. Reflecting its reform efforts,
Tonga’s Country Policy and Institutional Assessment rating provided by the World Bank has
increased from 2.9 to 3.5 over the last five years, putting Tonga’s policy and institutional
performance above average for International Development Association countries.

Despite these successes, Tonga’s economy has been hit hard by a series of exogenous shocks,
which have caused the economy to contract, a significant fiscal gap to emerge, and poverty to
increase sharply. At the same time, Tonga has made the transition to a more democratic political
system.

The proposed operation is the second in a programmatic series of two development policy
operations. The operation will help the Government of Tonga manage severe economic
challenges following historic political reforms. It supports a focussed program of Government
reform priorities in public financial management, fiscal policy, structural reform, and social
protection while providing a vital fiscal buffer in the context of sustained revenue contraction.
The series of operations coincide with the term in office of Tonga’s first Government to be
selected by a majority-elected parliament and provide an opportunity for the Bank to support
Tonga at a critical juncture in its development process.
       Proposed Objective(s)
The proposed operation will assist the GoT to implement key aspects of its medium-term reform
agenda, while providing a predictable flow of resources in a challenging fiscal environment.

The proposed operation will help to sustain the momentum of key public sector and economic
reforms in Tonga, in support of the Tonga Strategic Development Framework (TSDF). The
public financial management reforms in the proposed operation will support the TSDF objective
of good governance, particularly with respect to accountability and transparency, as well as the
enabling theme on good fiscal management. The fiscal policy reforms will bolster two of the
enabling themes of the TSDF, on good fiscal management and the efficiency and effectiveness of
government. The structural reforms will support TSDF themes relating to improvements of the
business environment.

       Preliminary Description
The policy areas the proposed operation will support are: (i) strengthened public financial
management (PFM); (ii) strengthened fiscal policy; and (iii) structural reform in the business
enabling environment.

In the area of public financial management, priorities reflect the importance of embedding
transparency and solid PFM foundations following recent political reforms. Under fiscal policy,
the agenda focuses on strengthening revenue effort to maintain delivery of public services
following substantial revenue declines. In relation to structural reform, the focus is on easing
constraints to viable sources of private sector development through removal of regulatory
constraints to business.

The proposed operation will support the GoT to pursue the objectives of the TSDF within a
structured macroeconomic framework, which will help to strengthen the overall performance of
the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
       The proposed operation will help to alleviate the growing incidence of hardship facing
       households in Tonga. Basic needs poverty has risen over the last decade, particularly in
       rural areas and the outer islands. Between 2001 and 2009 the percentage of people living
       below the basic needs poverty line increased by more than 10 percentage points, from
       12.2 percent in 2001 to 22.5 percent in 2009. While the majority of the poor live on the
       main island, Tongatapu, the sharpest increase in poverty over the last decade has
       occurred on the other islands – with basic needs poverty rising from 11.8 percent to 22.9
       percent of the population on the outer islands between 2001 and 2009.

       Reforms supported by the operation will help reduce poverty. Budget execution will be
       further strengthened by the PFM reforms supported by the operation, leading to more
       effective service provision as resources are utilised as scheduled and as budgeted. Over
       the medium- and long-term, improvements in budget transparency and the governance of
       public enterprises will improve accountability and efficiency in the use of public
       resources, contributing to greater equity of public resource use following recent
       democratizing reforms. Improvements in the business license regime are aimed to
       contribute to faster private sector development with the potential for additional job
       creation. Energy sector reforms are expected to have a substantial impact on poor
       households over time by improving access to electricity, reducing the cost of electricity
       and oil products, and contributing to reduced exposure to volatility in energy prices.
       Increased access to electricity is likely to reduce the time and cost faced by poor
       households in accessing alternative forms of energy for cooking and lighting. Lower and
       more stable energy prices are likely to reduce the share of household incomes required
       for energy needs, allowing increased consumption of other basic needs, and reducing
       exposure to severe hardship during periods of high imported energy prices.

Environment Aspects
       The policy actions supported under the operation are not expected to have a significant
       impact on Tonga’s environment, natural resources, or forests. The policy actions
       supported under the operation aim to strengthen public financial management, strengthen
       fiscal policy, and advance structural reform. They do not bear directly on environmental
       risks. The natural resource revenue regime may help mitigate some environmental risks
       to the extent that it will provide tools to Government to monitor and regulate some
       natural resource industries. Over time, the Government’s broader planned energy sector
       reforms are likely to lead to a change in energy mix towards renewable generation. These
       reforms are also likely to lead to improved safety regulation of private businesses
       operating in the petroleum sector, reducing risks of environmental damage through leaks
       or spills.


       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                    0
International Development Association (IDA)                                          1.8
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                    Total           1.8

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Tobias Haque
Title: Economist
Tel: +679-330-8000
Fax: +679-330-4045
Email: thaque2@worldbank.org
Location: Suva, Fiji (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Natalia Latu
Title: Director, Aid and Project Management Division
Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Tel: +676-24463
Email: nlatu@finance.gov.to


       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
