 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14835

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 11/25/2015

                 Country: Tonga
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                2
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                2
              Series ID: S130824
        First Project ID : P130824                                               Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Tonga Economic              Project Costs (US$M):                      1.8                   1.8
                           Recovery Operation II
 L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       1.8                   1.8
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 11/15/2012
                                                              Closing Date:            06/30/2013          06/30/2013
          Sector(s):    Central government    administration (57%); General  energy sector (24%);  General public
                        administration sector (14%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (5%)
         Theme(s):      Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (43%); Tax policy and
                        administration (29%); Macroeconomic management (14%); Infrastructure services for private
                        sector development (14%)
    Second Project ID :P126453                                                    Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name:   Tonga  Economic            Project Costs  (US$M):                       9.0               9.0
                        Recovery Operation
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        9.0               9.0
      Sector Board:     Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 11/22/2011
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:            06/30/2012          06/30/2012
          Sector(s):    Central government administration (58%), Other social services (14%), Oil and gas (14%),
                        Other Renewable Energy (7%), Energy efficiency in Heat and Power (7%)
         Theme(s):      Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (44%), Social safety nets (14%),
                        Macroeconomic management (14%), Other economic management (14%), Administrative
                        and civil service reform (14%)
Evaluator:              Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Malathi S.              Robert Mark Lacey        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2
Jayawickrama

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    Assist the Government of Tonga to implement key aspects of its medium-term reform agenda, while providing a
    predictable flow of resources in a challenging fiscal environment (Program Document (PD), page i, "Grant and
    Program Summary"). As the objectives are broad, this Review will assess the PDO on the basis of the key
    aspects of the Government's medium-term agenda, which are: strengthening public financial management;
    strengthening fiscal policy; promoting structural reforms; and improving social protection. These align with the
    policy areas supported by the Program.
 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The first DPO supported four Policy Areas as listed below. During approval of DPO II, the fourth policy area was
    dropped (see Section 3b below).

    (i) Strengthening Public Financial Management (PFM): The focus was on supporting the Government's efforts to
    strengthen the building blocks of its PFM system, increase the credibility of the budget, strengthen budget
    execution, and increase public access to key budget processes and fiscal information. This included two prior
    actions and two indicative triggers for the second operation.

    (ii) Strengthening Fiscal Policy : This supported reforms to increase the Government's revenue effort, improve the
    quality of its expenditure, and strengthen its management of the public service wage bill. This policy area
    included one prior action and one indicative trigger for the second operation. The reforms were expected to
    enable the Government to keep its actual wage bill in line with the budget and to increase tax revenue
    collections.

    (iii) Promoting Structural Reform : The operation supported the Government's wide-ranging structural reform
    agenda, within which the energy sector plays a leading role. This included three prior actions and three indicative
    triggers for the second operation. It was expected that the structural reforms would safeguard the financial
    position of Tonga Power Limited (TPL), yield benefits to energy consumers, and result in a more focused portfolio
    of public enterprises.

    (iv) Improving Social Protection : The focus was to alleviate the hardships facing households. This policy area
    included one prior action and one indicative trigger for the second operation. Over the medium term, this policy
    action was expected to result in incremental employment and income generation and community asset creation
    in the targeted communities.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The program was structured as a programmatic series of two development policy operations (DPOs).

    Financing: The first DPO provided US$9 million and the second DPO provided US$1.8 million to the
    Government. The DPOs were disbursed in full. Due to fluctuations in the US$/SDR rate, the respective amounts
    disbursed were US$8.91 under DPO I and US$1.82 under DPO II.

    Dates: The first DPO was appraised on October 6, 2011 and approved by the Board on November 22, 2011. It
    became effective on December 2, 2011 and was disbursed in December 2011. The second DPO was appraised
    on September 17, 2012 and approved by the Board on November 15, 2012. It became effective on January 15,
    2012 and was disbursed in February 2013. As planned, DPO I closed on June 30, 2012, and DPO II closed on
    June 30, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

    Substantial.

    The objectives were relevant at appraisal and remained relevant at completion of the series. The program
    addressed the key country priorities as stated in the national development plan--the Tonga Strategic
    Development Framework (TSDF) -- at the time of appraisal. Over the previous four years, Tonga’s economy has
    been hit hard by a series of crises, which had caused the economy to contract, a significant fiscal gap to emerge,
    and poverty to increase sharply. The program's objectives were focused on strengthening the critical aspects of
    PFM and key areas of fiscal policy that underpinned the delivery of services, including revenue effort and
    management of the public service wage bill.

    The program objectives are well aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY11-14, which was
   presented to the Board in combination with the first operation. The program's objectives contribute especially to
   the first theme of the CAS -- supporting policy reform to strengthen economic growth prospects and improve
   service delivery. The policy actions support essential structural reforms, including in the business regulatory
   environment. In addition, the policy actions and associated budget support facilitate accumulation of cash
   reserves, contributing to the third theme of the CAS on building resilience against shocks.

b. Relevance of Design:

   IEG assess the relevance of design as Substantial.
   The program was designed as a programmatic series to help meet a clear need for budget support in the wake of
   the global economic crisis. A multi-year programmatic series of operations was an appropriate instrument as it
   planned to assist in maintaining momentum in implementing reforms over the medium term. The need for a
   flexible approach and the risks associated with capacity constraints in a small Pacific Island Country context were
   clearly identified at the outset.

   The results chain, reflected in the policy matrix, provides a logical linkage between the prior actions and the
   expected outcomes and objectives. The prior actions form a relevant basis for the operation. Both operations
   focused on small number of strategic policy actions (seven under each operation). These were selected taking
   into account capacity constraints facing Government, and to ensure that actions could either be delivered with
   available capacity or that additional TA would be available from development partners. For example, prior actions
   in DPO I, instituting an in-year budget reporting system, and making budget proposals available to the public,
   were to enable public access to key information and increased transparency. Bringing recruitment in the public
   service under centralized control aimed to improve the management of the public service wage bill.

   The macro framework in place was considered appropriate at appraisal. Tonga's economy was recovering from
   recent internal and external shocks thanks to stronger tourism activity and fiscal expansion (IMF 2011 Article IV
   consultations, DPO I PD, Annex 3). The monetary policy stance was also considered to be appropriate.
   Macroeconomic disruption was to be mitigated through the Government's accumulation of cash reserves and
   strong policy dialogue around macro management of shocks and challenges including with the IMF. External
   shocks were also considered.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Efficacy is assessed on the basis of the key aspects of the Government's medium-term agenda, which are
   aligned with the four policy areas supported by the Program.

   1. Strengthening public financial management
   Rating: Substantial

   Strengthening PFM is assessed according to two outcomes: a credible budget at the level of disaggregated
   expenditure and increased public access to key fiscal information. On budget credibility, the measure chosen as
   a monitoring indicator is the composition of the expenditure outturn relative to the approved budget ( (i.e. Public
   Expenditure and Financial Accountability--PEFA Indicator 2).

   The budget is credible at the level of disaggregated expenditure .
   The outcome indicator for budget credibility was the extent to which the variance in the primary expenditure
   composition exceeded the overall deviation in primary expenditure. Over the past decade, the Government's
   performance on PEFA Indicator 2 has been 0-5 percent deviation in four years, and a 10-15 percent deviation in
   three years (equivalent to a 'C'). The medium term target was to reduce the deviation to 0-5 percent in most years
   (a 'B').

   The target set for the indicator was 0-5 percent in FY2011/12 and FY2012/13.
   The outcome was 4.5 percent in FY 2011/12 and 3.4 percent in FY2012/13.

   In conjunction with the wider PFM reforms being undertaken by the Government, improving budget monitoring
   through the in-year reporting system (prior action #1) was expected to strengthen budget execution and bring
   actual outturns closer to the approved budget.

   While the Government had been producing in-year budget reports before the Program, these had reported on
   actual revenues and expenditures without comparing these to forecast revenues and expenditures. In addition,
   the reports had not been produced frequently (three times a year--equivalent to a PEFA Indicator rating of 'B') nor
finalized in a timely manner. Thus, the Government was without an analytical tool for identifying, explaining, and
remedying any major divergences from the approved budget in a timely manner. There was also no analytical
basis for internal dialogue on the state of budget execution.

With Bank technical assistance (TA), the Government built consensus around the appropriate format for monthly
and quarterly monitoring reports, and developed the capacity to sustain the ongoing production of these reports.
The Government has been tracking key budget information and producing these reports since the beginning of
FY2011/12. According to the ICR, reports have been of good quality and consistently produced on a monthly
basis. They include key financial aspects of budget execution, information on revenues, expenditure, and
balances, identification of budget execution problems within ministries, use of the 'Contingency Fund', and
monitoring of unbudgeted expenditure. Reports have been used extensively by the budget team in interactions
with Ministers, with quarterly reports used as the basis for the mid-year budget review report and presentation to
Cabinet. All monthly reports are also presented to Cabinet, contributing to increased awareness of expenditure
constraints in the current environment, and reducing the need for draw-downs from the Contingency Fund.

The Government successfully improved aggregate budget execution and realized a cash surplus of around
Tongan Pa'anga (TOP) 20 million in FY2011/12. While also reflecting improvements in revenue performance and
higher-than-expected budget support grants, this result was supported by greater discipline in the use of the
Contingency Fund. The amount allocated to the fund was reduced to TOP3.2 million in FY2011/12 (from TOP6.7
million in FY2010/11), and only TOP 2.1 million of this amount was accessed during the year.

Increased public access to key fiscal information .
At the time of appraisal, the public had timely access to only one of the six specified key budget documents. The
medium-term target was to increase this to three documents. However, in FY2012/13, only one document had
been produced.

Public access to key fiscal information nevertheless increased. In FY2012/13, the budget proposal was made
publicly available when tabled in the Legislative Assembly. In FY2013/14, while the approved budget was made
publicly available, and in-year budget execution reports were prepared and routinely made available to the public
on the Ministry of Finance website (within one month of their completion), publication of subsequent reports were
significantly delayed due to substantial staff turnover and capacity limitations in the budget team.

On balance, strengthening public financing management is rated substantial although there are dimensions on
PFM that are not taken into account in this rating (which reflects the objectives of this operation).

Strengthening fiscal policy .
Rating: Modest

Strengthening fiscal policy is assessed according to two outcomes: improved control of the wage bill and
curtailing tax exemptions.

Improved control of the wage bill .
The outturn for the government-funded public service wage bill was less than the budgeted allocation. This was
largely due to the centralization of hiring authority within the Ministry of Finance and National Planning (MFNP)
and the Public Service Commission (PSC), and the partial hiring freeze.

Tonga had historically faced major challenges in the management of its wage bill. In the context of revenue
pressure and expenditure control measures, inadequate control over the wage bill contributed to a squeeze on
non-wage expenditure. While wage increases played a major part in driving expenditure increases, inadequate
central-agency control over recruitment by some agencies had also led to unchecked expansion in the number of
civil service positions.

A Treasury Circular was issued in the third quarter of 2011 requiring confirmation of the availability of funds and
of the need for the position before proceeding with recruitment. The FY2012/13 Budget Circular included a
statement of Government policy to reduce the wage bill to 45 percent of recurrent expenditure. These centralized
control measures were initially successful -- according to Table 2 of the International Monetary Fund's Staff
Report of the 2015 Article IV Consultation, wages and salaries fell to 34.6% of total expenditures in fiscal 2012,
compared to 37% in fiscal 2011 and 36% in fiscal 2010. However, in fiscal 2014, the share of wages and salaries
rose sharply to 42.4%.

Curtailing exemptions .
Development partners supported a major review of tax policy and administration during FY2011/12. DPO II
supported implementation of the review’s recommendations, in particular through increased transparency and
   reductions in the number of exemptions granted. The focus was on the consumption tax and duties. The cost of
   exemptions on these taxes decreased as a proportion of revenue from them to 28 percent in FY2011/12 and 23
   percent in FY2012/13.

   Promoting structural reforms
   Rating: Substantial

   Under this rubric, the program aimed for three outcomes: reduced costs of doing business, increased financial
   transparency of major public entities, and energy prices that better reflect costs of supply.

   Reduced costs of doing business .
   Following reforms to the license regime, the costs of a business license were reduced from TOP138 to TOP115 –
   a 17 percent reduction compared to the target reduction of 23 percent. Reforms supported under the operation
   allow all firms to operate with a single business license, rather than requiring multiple licenses for different
   activities. License processing times have also been reduced, and an online system is expected to be
   implemented.

   Increased financial transparency of major public entities .
   As a prior action of DPO1,the financial accounts of Tonga Power Limited, the Tonga Water Board, Tonga Airports
   Limited, Ports Authority of Tonga, Tonga Post Limited, and the Tonga Development Bank were made publicly
   available on their respective websites within 6 months of the end of FY2010/11. This progress has been
   sustained, and significant progress has been achieved with the State-owned Enterprise (SOE) reform agenda
   during the term of the program (ICR, p. 19). The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has played the lead role among
   development partners on analytical work and TA on public enterprise reform in Tonga.

   Energy prices that better reflect costs of supply .
   In line with the prior action under DPO I, petroleum price templates were revised to ensure that the retailer’s
   margin for petroleum is now set on a per-liter rather than a percentage-of-cost basis. These regulatory changes
   are being applied, leading to closer alignment between energy prices faced by consumers and the cost of supply.


   However, the originally planned revision of the electricity tariff – originally identified as a trigger for the second
   operation – did not occur due to weak capacity within the Tonga Energy Roadmap Implementation Unit
   (TERM-IU), delays in mobilizing technical assistance, and a lack of political consensus regarding the appropriate
   direction of broader energy sector reforms. The new tariff was expected to deliver 100 percent cost recovery
   while also creating incentives for greater utilization of renewable energy generation by the vertically integrated
   utility and introducing measures to protect the poor. While there has been some progress in energy sector reform
   (renewable generation capacity has been increased , and Tonga Power Limited is now covering its costs thanks
   to some tariff adjustments and an explicit public service obligation subsidy ), these measures cannot be attributed
   to the program.

   Improving Social Protection

   Although a Policy Area of DPO I, this the objective did not feature in DPO II, since it was not part of the
   Government's medium-term reform agenda (DPO II PD, Annex 5). As mentioned above, the planned community
   public works scheme was not implemented under DPO I. In the absence of progress towards implementing the
   community public works scheme, however, Government has taken steps to improve social protection through the
   introduction of alternative social safety net schemes for the disabled and the elderly (ICR, p. 19).

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   Outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, reflecting the substantial relevance of the program's objectives and
   design, and two substantial and one modest efficacy of the three objectives. The Government took important
   actions during program preparation and implementation across a broad spectrum of policy areas, especially in
   strengthening PFM and curtailing tax exemptions.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Despite strengthening PFM and fiscal policy, Tonga continues to face a significant challenge in achieving
   required fiscal consolidation while broadening its economic base and identifying new sources of growth. Tonga
   also remains extremely vulnerable to external economic shocks and natural disasters that could both distract
   available capacity from maintaining the gains achieved under the program and generate political pressure to
   reverse important reforms, especially in the energy sector.

   Capacity constraints common in small Pacific Island Countries also pose a threat to program achievements.
   While many staff are highly trained and competent, staff turnover is high. In the current context of wage bill
   constraint, and with a limited numbers of specialists available to play particular roles within government, vital
   positions sometimes remain unfilled for significant periods. Staff turnover in the Ministry of Finance constituted an
   important barrier to the achievement of some outcome indicator targets. Staff shortages and changes could pose
   risk to process based reform measures supported through the program, including those related to fiscal reporting,
   improvements in budget execution, and publication of SOE financial statements (ICR, p. 22).

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank worked closely with Government and donors to ensure that the program was tightly focused on
   government reform priorities. The prior actions were informed by analytical work carried out by the Bank and
   ADB. The operations drew on extensive background analysis: PFM and fiscal reforms were informed by a
   Bank exercise on expenditure mapping; revenue reforms were informed by a detailed IMF review, with Bank
   participation in 2011; and structural reforms were informed by ADB analytical work and technical assistance
   (TA) engagements. These helped to ensure that policy actions were well focused and that reforms could be
   supported with TA.

   Expectations were realistic regarding the likely possible pace and extent of reform; and both operations
   focused on a small number of strategic policy actions. Risks were clearly identified and made explicit in formal
   program documentation. The development objective was, however, formulated very broadly. The inclusion of
   social protection as a Policy Area was inappropriate since it depended on separate Bank Trust Fund
   financing. Some outcome indicators were imperfectly matched to the outcomes being sought. Outcome
   indicators changed between the first and second operations, reflecting revisions in the Government’s broader
   reform program. Nonetheless, the outcome indicators presented in the program documents provided an
   adequate basis for assessing progress.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank carried out multiple missions, built a strong relationship with key staff of implementing agencies,
   and developed a good understanding of progress and constraints. Through the Budget Support Management
   Committee, the Bank helped build a shared understanding of the extent of progress, key risks, and required
   corrective actions between government and donors. Throughout implementation, the Bank continued to play
   an important coordinating role between Government and development partners. An Implementation Status
   Report (ISR) was completed in mid-2012. The Bank, however, did not deliver on anticipated Trust Fund
   resources to implement the public works plan under the social protection policy area, due to delays in the
   submission of the Trust Fund proposal.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government played a key role in defining the reform agenda underpinning the program, and pursued an
   open and constructive dialogue with donors regarding a broader range of macroeconomic management and
   fiscal policy issues throughout the process. The reforms were implemented during a period in which
   Government faced several serious challenges, including declining revenue and increasing poverty. The
   Government played a key role in developing the joint policy matrix with donors, and remained strongly
   committed to delivering reforms.

   High staff turnover and the departure of several key officials involved in the development of the budget
   support program within the Ministry of Finance was a constraint to the full achievement of all outcome
   indicator targets under Ministry of Finance control. Commitment and effort of officials in the Ministry of
   Commerce and the Ministry of Public Enterprises were key factors in the achievement of several outcome
   indicator targets. Political commitment was more variable in relation to energy sector tariffs.



  Government Performance Rating :                            Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   Not Applicable.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E design envisaged using Tonga's existing institutional structure for aid management to implement and
   monitor the DPO-supported policy actions, with the Ministry of Finance and National Planning providing overall
   guidance for the budget support program, and assuming responsibility for M&E. The design also reflected a
   coordinated approach between donors and government, and attempted to avoid overburdening government
   capacity. M&E was also intended to be undertaken largely through the same mechanism used for program
   design (i.e. the Budget Support Management Committee or BSMC). Donors also worked to harmonize outcome
   indicators and evidence requirements for prior actions. This approach reflected the importance of streamlined
   M&E approaches in data-poor and thin-capacity Pacific contexts.

   Outcomes were modified and their respective indicators adapted to changing circumstances between the first
   and second operations. The second operation saw some narrowing of focus, with actions relating to the energy
   sector and social protection being dropped. This was an appropriate response to unforeseen changes in
   circumstances – specifically, capacity constraints to and uneven political support for energy sector reforms, and a
   shortfall in expected Trust Fund resources available to the Government to implement the planned community
   public works scheme. As the indicator under 'improving Social Protection' was beyond the Government's control,
   its inclusion in the DPO I Policy Matrix was inappropriate. The outcome indicator on controlling the wage bill was
   also poorly specified. Underspending resulted under the program (with greater-than-expected progress towards
   the outcome). A spending ceiling rather than variance might have been more appropriate.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The BSMC was established during the first operation as a method to reach agreement on policy actions to be
   included in the joint policy matrix between Government and donors, and to monitor progress against actions.
   Permanent Secretaries of all relevant ministries were represented on the BSMC, along with the World Bank as
   coordinating donor. The Committee was to meet on a bi-monthly basis to allow regular monitoring of progress
    towards policy actions, and to mobilize technical assistance if problems arose. Implementation of M&E was
    effective. The BSMC approach worked well as a mechanism for information sharing and coordination. Through
    the Committee meetings, the Bank was able to effectively monitor progress against reform actions, collect
    evidence of reform implementation, and gather data to monitor progress against outcomes. The process,
    however, was resource intensive for both the MFNP, as secretariat for the committee, and for the Bank as
    coordinating donor.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR does not report any utilization of the M&E system beyond monitoring program implementation. The
    coordination and monitoring arrangements development under the DPOs have benefitted a planned new series
    of DPOs, where policy actions of the new operations were agreed through the BSMC.

  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
No safeguards policies were triggered by this series.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR does not report any fiduciary issues.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:
N/A


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        Outcome is rated moderately
                                                            Satisfactory      satisfactory, reflecting the substantial
                                                                              relevance of the program's objectives
                                                                              and design, and two substantial and
                                                                              one modest efficacy of the three
                                                                              objectives.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        The inclusion of Social Protection was
                                                            Satisfactory      inappropriate in design, as it depended
                                                                              on separate Bank funding; some
                                                                              outcome indicators were imperfectly
                                                                              matched to the outcomes being sought;
                                                                              and the Bank did not deliver on the
                                                                              expected Trust Funds to implement the
                                                                              public works plan under the social
                                                                              protection policy area.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The first four lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language, and the fifth is drawn by IEG:
    Budget support and adequate investment in policy dialogue can be vital in advancing economic and fiscal
    policy reforms. In this case, the policy dialogue included close coordination and engagement with other
    development partners in identifying policy priorities, which was helpful in areas where the Bank has limited
    knowledge and engagement.
    Coordinated management of fiscal needs and budget support can provide critical support to mitigate the impact
    of external shocks, especially in a small, isolated economy highly vulnerable to external economic shocks.
    Development policy operations can be implemented relatively quickly to achieve good results in the context of
    solid Government ownership.
    Flexibility is important in the context of a limited capacity and volatile environment, including the flexibility to
    significantly alter indicative triggers. In this case, the program modified its prior actions and outcomes under
    the second operation in line with changes in Government priorities.
    Bank-supported programs need to ensure that financing is available for all planned activities. In this case, the
    expected trust fund financing for social protection activities did not materialize.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides detailed accounts and analysis on most important aspects of the program. The ICR reports on
    the measures taken to control the public wage bill; however, the it could have perhaps also described some of the
    less-desirable consequences of the freeze, such as an increase in the use of 'daily paid' staff and capacity gaps
    that arose from a large number of unfilled vacancies.

    The ICR does not mention whether or how M&E might have been utilized. The lessons are well reflected in the
    document and evidence-based, especially in relation to the donor coordination, the policy dialogue and 'buy-in'
    the program achieved.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
