oi4A) l77f- YU
RESTRICTED
Report No.  PU-58a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
April 19, 1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
US$ 1          =  Din 15.0
US$ 1 million  -  Din 15,000,000
Din 1          = US$ 0.067
Din 1 million  =  US$ 66,667
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
-man    -   millimeter  (1 millimeter - 0.039 inches)
m       -   meter  (1 meter - 3.28 feet)
km2     -   kilometer  (1 kilometer2- 0.62 miles)
km      -   square kilometer  (1 km  = 100 hectares
3 247.1 acres)
ha      =   hectare  (1 hectare = 10,000 square meters
3                           3  - 2.47 acres)
m           cubic meter  (1 m   = 1.31 cubic yards
3                              = 264.2 U5 gallons)
i /sec  -   cubic meters per second  (1 m /sec
264.2 US gallons/second
- 35.3 cubic feet/second)
kv      =   kilovolt
mw      -   megawatt
kwh     -   kilowatt hour
Gwh     -   gigawatt hour  (1 Gwh - 1,000,000 kwh)
ILE     -   Ibar-Lepen?c Enterprise
FAO     =   Food and Agriculture Organization
UNDP    5   United Nations Development Program
WHO     -   World Health Organization
ZEPS    -   Association of Electricity Producers of Serbia



YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................ i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................  1
II.   TIIE ECONOMY OF THE REGION ..............................   1
A.   General         ...........................             1
B.   Industrial Sector ...................                   2
C.   Water Supply Sector ..................                  3
D.   Agricultural Sector       ..............................   3
E.  Power Sector .....................                       4
III.  THE PROJECT ............      ...............................   5
Project Description and Execution .....................  5
A.   Background        ...........................           5
B.   Concept of the Project ................                 6
C.   Description of the Project             .      .        6
D.   Project Costs        ....................................   7
E.  Loan Amount    ......................................  10
F.   Procurement and Disbursement ......... ............ 10
G.   Execution of the Project ........... ..............  10
Sectoral and Ecological Aspects of the Project ........ 13
H.   Water Supply Aspects ......       .......................  13
I.   Agricultural Aspects ......       .......................  14
J.   Power Aspects    .....................................  17
K.   Ecological Aspects .......       ........................  17
TV.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......       ......................  18
This report -- prepared by Messrs. Jacob, Grover, Mould, Warford,
IsRh and Montfort, Miss Eid, Messrs. Golan, Meimaris, Rashid and Smeyers --
in based on the findings of Bank appraisal missions which visited Yugoslavia
in June and August 1970. The water supply and irrigation mission in June
consisted of Messrs. Jacob, Grover and Meimaris with Miss Eid and Mr.
Smeyers of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The later power mission
conaisted of Messrs. Isla and Montfort.



vag lo.
V.  LER?DINr APRAHrCEMENTS AN) 'tilE TBAR-TTEPTITMA l'NTE'PTS 1...   20
A.  Lendling  Arrangements   ..............................  n(
B.   Thar-Lepenac  Enterprise ............................)
1.   Orga,nization    2.............................  on
i I.   Management  ....... ..                     21
ii.  Accounting and Audit .....    ................   21
VI.   FINAICTATL  ASPECTS   ......................................  22
A.  Financing Plan ..................                    ,-2
B.   Financial Forecasts ...............................   t.3
C.  Financial Covenants ...............................   25
VTII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS  ................   25
ANNEXES
1.  Description of Proposed Project
2.  Cost Estimate of Proposed Prolect
3.  Construction Schedule
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.  Water Availability and IJtilization
6.  Industrial and Domestic Water Supply Sector In Kosovo Province
7.  Water Supply for Agriculture
8.  Agriculture in the Project Area
9.  The Power Sector and Use of Gazivode Hydroelectric Plant
10.   Rate of Return Calculations and Sensitivity Analyses
11.  ILE Organization Charts
12.   Summary of Financial Principles and Regulations for
Enterprises in Yugoslavia
13.   Summary of Proposed Water and Electricity Rates
14.  Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
15.   ILE Estimated Income Statements 1974-1985
16.  ILE Estimated Cash Flow 1971-1985
17.  ILE Estimated Balance Sheets 1971-1985
IAP S
1.  Kosovo Province
2.  Ibar Project



YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Kosovo Province is the poorest region in Yugoslavia.  Income per
capita (about US$170 per year) is about one third of the national average
and high rates of unemployment and underemployment prevail. Planned ex-
pansion of mineral-based industries in the Kosovo plain is inhibited by lack
of additional water supplies. Public health in the region is very poor,
partly because of inadequate domestic water supplies. Although the economy
of the region is basically agricultural, Kosovo Province does not produce
enough food to be self-sufficient. The Ibar-Lepenac scheme will provide
basic infrastructure for accelerated economic development in the province;
its first stage, the Ibar project, is the subject of this appraisal.
ii.       The multipurpose Ibar project envisages utilization of the water
of the Ibar River for (a) industrial and domestic consumption, (b) intensi-
fication of agriculture through irrigation, and (c) the generation of hydro-
electric power.
iii.      The part of the project for which Bank financing is proposed is
estimated to cost US$93.3 million and would include two dams, a 34 Mw hydro-
electric station, 147 km of principal conduits, two pumping stations, irrigation
and drainage networks covering 30,000 ha, roads, land levelling, operation
and maintenance equipment, and engineering services. Minor components of the
project to be implemented without Bank assistance are estimated to cost US$8.9
million and include erosion control measures, river levees, a transmission
line and on-farm investments.
iv.       The economic rate of return of the entire Ibar project, whose
main effects would be in the industrial and agricultural sectors, is esti-
mated to be 15.6%. Besides the quantified benefits expected from water supply,
agriculture, power, and prevention of downstream sedimentation, improvements
in domestic water supply will bring substantial public health benefits. Ad-
ditional benefits will result from flood control and reduced soil erosion.
v.        A Bank loan of US$45 million is proposed, which would cover 42%
of the Bank-financed project costs plus interest on the Bank loan during
construction (US$6.2 million). The remaining 58% will be financed locally,
mainly by a loan from a special fund for underdeveloped areas channelled
through a local bank. The Bank loan will finance the estimated foreign
exchange component of US$29.2 million (including interest during construction
on the Bank loan) and local currency expenditures equivalent to about US$15.8
million.
vi.       The Bank will lend to the Federal Government of Yugoslavia which
will relend the funds, on Bank terms, to the lbar-Lepenac Enterprise (ILE).
This new entity, created specifically to develop the water resources of the



- il -
Ibar and Lepenac river systems, will construct the project. A project
agreement with the Bank would be co-signed by the Provincial Government
of Kosovo and ILE.
vii.      ILE will operate as an independent utility and a wholesaler of
water and electricity. More than 70% of its estimated future revenue will
be assured by firm contracts for the sale of water and electricity to main
industrial users. While these customers will provide most of the revenue
required to maintain a sound financial position of ILE, revenue from sales
to agricultural users of water (at rates commensurate with their ability
to pay) would cover operating and maintenance costs of the irrigation
component and would provide for repayment of the proportionate investment
for irrigation within about 50 years.
viii.     ILE will be required to maintain a minimum rate of return on
reasonably valued total net fixed assets in operation of 7% after the first
full year of operation and 8% after the fifth year. A further requirement
will ensure that ILE would not incur any long-term debt unless the maximum
annual future debt service on all debt will be covered not less than 1.2
times by its net revenue at the time of the incurrence of the new debt.
ix.       To achieve the full benefits of this complex project will require
technical expertise in several fields and the successful coordination of
programs of the Federal and Provincial Governments, ILE and autonomous
enterprises and communities in Kosovo. Skillful management will be neces-
sary. Realistic plans to provide the necesssary coordination have been made
and prospects for sound management of the project are good.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$45 million for a
period of 30 years, including a 6-year grace period, on the basis of agreements
reached during negotiations.



YUIGOSLAVIA
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Yugoslavia has requested a Bank loan
of US$45 million to help finance the Ibar project, whose total cost is
estimated to be US$102.2 million.
1.02      This multipurpose project, as the first phase of the Ibar-Lepenac
scheme to develop the major water resources in the Kosovo plain, would
utilize the water of the Ibar River to supply industries and communities,
generate hydroelectric power, and irrigate some 30,000 ha in Kosovo Province.
The overall scheme is the principal means by which the economic development
of this most underdeveloped region in Yugoslavia is planned to be accelerated.
1.03      This loan will be the first one to Yugoslavia for water supply or
agriculture. Two previous loans have been made for power, the most recent
of which was 318-YU for US$30 million.
1.04      Following completion of a feasibility study and detailed design
of most of the Ibar project components by Yugoslav consultants (Energo-
project of Belgrade), a Bank reconnaissance mission visited the project
area in April 1969. FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions were in Yugos-
lavia to prepare the agricultural component of the project in September
1969 and January 1970. After a preappraisal mission of combined Bank and
FAO/IBRD staff in May 1970, the project's water supply and irrigation as-
pects were appraised in June 1970 by Messrs. Jacob, Grover and Meimaris
of the Bank and Miss Eid and Mr. Smeyers of FAO/TBRD, with guidance from
Mr. Bartsch. Messrs. Isla and Montfort appraised the power component in
August 1970. This report is based on information obtained by these mis-
sions and provided by the consulting engineers and the Governments of
Yugoslavia and Kosovo Province. Assistance in the preparation of the
report was given by Messrs. Golan, Mould, Rashid and Warford.
II.  TIE ECONOMY OF THE REGION
A.   General
2.01      The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with a per capita
income of about US$170 per year or one-third the national average, is the
poorest region in Yugoslavia. Bordering Albania (see Map 1), with most of
the 1.2 million people of Albanian origin, the Province occupies an area
of 11,000 km2 out of the country's total area of 256,000 km2. The Kosovo
population density of 110 per km2 is almost 40% higher than that of the
country, whose population totals 20.5 million.



-2-
2.02      Some 75% of the people in this underdeveloped rural Province
live on farms or in small villages. The largest city is Pristina, the
Provincial capital, with 65,000 inhabitants who include 10,000 university
students. High unemployment and underemployment are growing problems in
Kosovo, whose 2 R5% net annual rate of population increase is more than double
that of the country as a whole.
2.03      Largely because of the rapid population growth in the Province,
its per capita income has not increased as fast as the national average
over the past 10 years. This has occurred despite significant efforts
of the Federal Government to promote Kosovo's economic development, mainly
through funds provided from the Fund for Lesser Developed Regions and
Republics. These payments amounted to Din 2,190 million (US$146 million),
or 39% of all investment in the Province, in the 5-year period to 1970.
Still greater financial assistance from the Fund -- estimated at Din 5,650
million (US$377 million) or 43% of all investment planned for the Province
-- is envisaged in the draft of the next 5-Year Plan (1971-1975).
B.   Industrial Sector
2.04      Most industry in Kosovo Province is based on the mineral resources
of the Kosovo plain, exploited by two large industrial enterprises. The
extensive lead and zinc deposits were first mined about 40 years ago by
Kombinat Trepca, whose several mines in the area now supply the smelter,
refinery and chemical complex around Kosovska Mitrovica, employing 6,500
people there. Yugoslavia is Europe's second largest producer of lead and
Kombinat Trepca, the major supplier in the country, is an important exporter.
In addition to refined lead, zinc and associated minerals, this enterprise
manufactures superphosphate fertilizer, sulphuric acid and lead batteries.
2.05      Major reserves of lignite near Obilic are the basis for the
various integrated operations of Kombinat Kosovo, which employs 5,000
people and runs a highly automated open-cast mining operation to supply the
lignite to its several adjacent plants. These include a coal-drying plant,
a 390 Mw thermal power plant (whose capacity is being doubled) and a
gasification plant. Both the power and gasification plants are principal
suppliers to the steel industry in Skopje, 90 km away. Development of
nitrogen fertilizer and caprolactam 1/ plants is planned by Kombinat Kosovo
for the near future.
2.06      The Province's secondary industries, such as food-processing and
textiles, are relatively small and geographically dispersed. All industries
together employ only about 35,000 people.
1/   Caprolactam is synthesized from coal and used in the manufacture of
nylon.



- 3 -
2.07      Expansion of industry, particularly the mineral-based enterprises
of the Kosovo plain, is the main basis for economic development in the
Province. In the period 1966-70, 66% of all investment was for industry,
and the next 5-Year Plan (1971-75) envisages 52% of all investmient for
this sector. But the planned expansion of the two main Kombinats is in-
hibited by the lack of additional water supplies that will be needed.
C.   Water Supply Sector
2.08      Water supply facilities in Kosovo Province are generally planned,
financed, built and operated by their users, the industries and communities.
Each of the two main industrial complexes has its own water supply scheme
at present, as do nine towns in the Province. Details of existing schemes
are in Annex 6. See also Map 2.
2.09      Kombinat Trepca at Kosovska Mitrovica obtains its water supply
(for flotation, washing, cooling, etc.) from unregulated flows in the rbar
River by means of the Preles weir and supply system and by direct pumping
from the river. Present water requirements exceed the dependable river
flow. Kombinat KDsovo at Obilic obtains its water supply by pumping from
the Lab River at Prugovac. When development of the area's lignite reserves
began, this industry was allowed to use the Batlava reservoir -- originally
built for irrigation -- to augment low flows and increase the dependable
water supply. Although most of the water used by the Kombinat (mainly for
cooling purposes) is recirculated, the present supply cannot meet the demand
associated with the planned industrial expansion at Obilic.
2.10      The amount of water presently used by these industrial complexes
can only be estimated because the existing supplies are not metered. The
Kombinats have agreed to install water meters and the consultants are pro-
viding technical advice for implementation of the metering program. Never-
theless present water use is reasonably estimated and there is no doubt
that the demand for industrial water expected in the near future will exceed
the capacity of present supplies.
2.11      Public water supplies in nine towns serve an estimated 10% of the
provincial population of 1.2 million. Only Pristina, the capital and
largest town in the Province, has a satisfactory water supply. The other
supplies are unsanitary, tending to be centralized distributors of water-
borne infections; this in turn results in an extremely high incidence of
intestinal disease, with frequent epidemics. About 90% of the population
obtain their water from shallow wells, springs and streams, most of which
are polluted.
D.   Agricultural Sector
2.12      Although over 400,000 ha (about 40% of the land area) are under
cultivation and the economy is basically agricultural, Kosovo Province is
nevertheless a net food importer except for meat. Most of the cultivated
land is in the Metohija and Kosovo plains, with cereals the predominant
crop. There is also a limited production of vegetables and fodder. The



- 4 -
crop production is loosely integrated with livestock production on the hill
pastures.
2.13      Irrigation is concentrated in the Metohija plain, which is larger
than the Kosovo plain and has more water resources and a milder climate,
hence is the more productive part of the Province. About 40,000 ha in the
Metohija plain are served by centuries-old systems and 19,000 ha by newer
systems built since 1959 (see Map 1). The existing systems are operated
as independent utilities and must meet all annual operation and maintenance
costs and debt service from water charges. Farmers served by these systems
are obliged to use the water; if they fail to do so for two consecutive
years, their land is taken over by the Provincial Government and the farmers
are given land in a non-irrigated area. There are well-established pro-
cedures for creating and organizing water management enterprises to provide
water for irrigation schemes. Irrigation is an essential means of inten-
sifying agricultural production in this area.
2.14      In the project area (see Map 2), about 78% of the land is owned
by some 11,800 private farmers (private sector). Two-thirds of them are
at the subsistence level, cultivating farms smaller than 2 ha (30% of the
area) under rainfed conditions and providing for large families averaging
5.5 persons. The size of the remaining private farms ranges between 2 to
5 ha (21% of the area) and 5 to 10 ha (27% of the area). None is larger
as the size of private holdings of arable land in the Province is limited
by law to 10 ha. Only about one-quarter of the land in the private sector
receives extension services, fertilizers and other modern inputs including
machine cultivation. These inputs are being purchased from service coopera-
tives attached to entities in the social sector 1/.
2.15      The rest of the land in the project area belongs to the social
sector. This consists of one agro-industrial enterprise, Kombinat Kosmet-
Export (12% of the area), and six Production Cooperatives (10% of the area).
They have their own marketing channels and operate various factories (sugar,
oil mill, dairy and slaughterhouse). Although the use of fertilizer and
farm machinery by these enterprises is common and brings above-average
yields, most of the factories are under-utilized due to inadequate agri-
cultural production (see Annex 8).
E.   Power Sector
2.16      The generation, transmission and distribution of electric power
in Yugoslavia are the responsibility of a large number of separate enter-
prises grouped and coordinated on a regional basis. There are six regional
systems in the country, the largest being the system of the Republic of
Serbia and Kosovo Province, where the Gazivode hydroelectric plant would be
located. The 12 generating enterprises and the enterprise for high-voltage
1/   The social sector of the Yugoslav economy is comprised of all those
enterprises whose means of production are owned by the society as a
whole. The workers in these socially owned enterprises manage as well
as operate them, thus in the management sense they are fully autonomous.



- 5 -
transmission in Serbia and Kosovo are grouped in ZEPS, the Association of
Electricity Producers of Serbia. ZEPS buys all power generated by the
producers' plants at tariffs established by general agreement every year,
based on the planned utilization of the plants in the system. The total
installed capacity in the ZEPS system in mid-1970 was 1,991 Mw, of which 865
Mw were hydro and 1,126 Mw thermal. At present, 900 Mw hydro and 610 Mw
thermal are under construction. ZEPS' demand forecasts for 1975 are about
15,000 Gwh and 2,900 Mw peak load in its system. In addition, power will
be exported to adjacent systems.
2.17      Kombinat Kosovo at Obilic (see paragraph 2.05) is the electric
power producer in the Province which under a long term contract sells power
to ZEPS. In addition to the 390 Mw thermal plant now operating, two 200 Mw
additional units are under construction and plans exist to install a further
1,500 Mw in the next 10 years. The Kombinat's new gasification plant requires
a continuous supply of about 25 Mw. The total power requirements in the
Province are much less than the generation capacity of the enterprise and
power from Obilic is exported to Serbia and Macedonia. Details on the exist-
ing situation in the power sector of Serbia and Koscvo Province are included
in Annex 9.
III. THE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND EXECUTION
A.  Background
3.01      Realizing that the future development of the lignite reserves
and other resources in the Kosovo plain would depend on increased supplies
of water, the Provincial Government initiated engineering studies 10 years
ago to provide a master plan for development of the water resources. The
result of these studies, carried out by Yugoslav consultants (Energoprojekt),
is the proposed multipurpose scheme whereby the major undeveloped rivers
in the region, the Ibar and Lepenac, would provide water for industries and
communities, for irrigation of some 73,000 ha and for hydroelectric power
generation. In 1967 the Provincial Government created a new entity, Ibar-
Lepenac Enterprise (ILE), to implement this master plan.
3.02      Because of the impending water shortages in the expanding mineral-
based industries at Obilic and Kosovska Mitrovica, the Provincial Govern-
ment selected the Ibar project, the subject of this appraisal report, as
the first phase of the overall development. The second phase, the Lepenac
project, would not proceed before completion of the Ibar project in 1975
and would provide water mainly for irrigation of 43,000 ha south of and
adjacent to the Ibar project area. The Lepenac project, which would include
two dams and a small hydroelectric station, is tentatively estimated to cost
Din 719 milllon (US$48 million). The area covered by the proposed Ibar
and Lepenac projects is shown on tap 1.



-6-
B.   Concept of the Project
3.03      The Ibar prolect will provide water for industrial, municipal,
power and agricultural use and will be the first multipurpose water project
in the region.  Through development of the Ibar River the project will
provide water for:
(a)  supply of 8.8 m 3/sec to industries:
(b)  supply of about 0.2 m /sec to communities;
(c) irrigation of 30,000 ha; and
(d) generation of 95 Gwh of peak power annually.
Although Bank financing will be restricted to the facilities to be built by
ILE, which will act as a wholesaler of bulk supplies of water and electricity,
complementary inputs, particularly for agriculture, will be required to
achieve the intended benefits of the project. The Provincial Government will
be responsible for ensuring that these additional inputs are provided and
will itself undertake certain works to complement those for which ILE will
be responsible (see paragraphs 3.04 to 3.06).
C.   Description of the Project
3.04      The proposed Ibar project, shown on Map 2 and described in Annex
1, includes the following main features for which ILE will be responsible:
(a) Gazivode rockfill dam and storjge reservoir
with capacity of 350 million m
(b) 34 Mw hydroelectric plant
(c) Pridvorica regulating dam, intake structure and compensation
basin
(d) 147 km of main conduits (canals, tunnels, syphons and aqueducts)
for conveying untreated water to industries, communities and
irrigated areas
(e) two main pumping stations
(f) irrigation and drainage system serving 30,000 ha
(g)  feeder roads (about 91 km) and maintenance roads (about
633 km) along irrigation canals and drains
(h) on-farm development in the irrigated area (land-levelling,
tile drainage)



-7-
(i) erosion control works (hydraulic structures for training the
small torrential streams flowing intermittently as tributaries
to the Ibar River)
(j) telecommunications system for project operation
(k) equipment for operation and maintenance of project facilities
(1) training of ILE staff for project operation.
This part of the total Ibar project is referred to hereafter as the ILE
project.
3.05      Related project facilities for which others than ILE will be
responsible include:
(a) soil conservation works in the watershed above the Project
area, to be undertaken by the Provincial Government (para-
graph 3.18);
(b) levees along the Sitnica River, to be undertaken by the
Provincial Government (paragraph 3.19);
(c) transmission line from the hydroelectric station to the regional
power system, to be constructed by Kombinat Kosovo (paragraph
3.20);
(d) treatment and distribution systems to use the untreated
supplies of bulk water supplied by ILE to industries and
communities in the project area, to be undertaken by those
water users (paragraphs 3.28 and 3.29).
3.06      Inputs required to ensure the realization of benefits in agri-
culture include:
(a) maintenance of feeder roads (paragraph 3.17);
(b) extension services (paragraph 3.34);
(c) farm inputs (fertilizers, machinery services, etc.) (paragraph
3.35);
(d)  long-term credit for supplementary on-farm investments and
annual short-term production credit (paragraph 3.35);
D.   Proiect Costs
3.07      The estimated project costs are summarized below.  Details of
the expenditures for which ILE will be responsible during the construction
and disbursement period 1971-76 are given on a year-by-year basis on Annex 2.



A.   Financed by ILE with IBRD Participation
Din Million             US$ Million
For-                     For-
Items                  Local   eign   Total    Local   eign   Total
Gazivode and Pridvorica
Dams                        186.0   120.7   306.7        12.4   8.0    20.4
Hydroelectric Plant             36.5    24.5    61.0         2.4   1.7      4.1
Water Conveyance Systems       367.1   112.5   479.6        24.5   7.5    32.0
Miscellaneous Works and
Equipment                    41.5     9.3    50.8         2.8   0.6      3.4
Land                            16.4       -     16.4        1.1    -       1.1
Engineering, Training
and Administration           54.3     1.5    55.8         3.6   0.1      3.7
Subtotal                 701.8   268.5   970.3        46.8  17.9    64.7
Contingencies:
Physical                    114.7    25.5   140.2         7.6   1.7      9.3
Price                       238.5    51.0   289.5        15.9   3.4    19.3
Total                  1.055.0   345.0 1,400.0        70.3  23.0    93.3
B.   Financed by Others
US$ Million
Din Million          Equivalent
Soll Conservation Works
(Erosion Control)                          16                    1.1
Sitnica River Levees                           30                   2.0
Transmission Line                               5                   0.3
On-farm Investments                            82                   5.5
Total                   133                    8.9
3.08      The estimate of the project expenditures for which ILE will be
responsible was prepared by the consultants, Energoprojekt, the Yugoslav
engineering firm that has been working on the Ibar project since its
inception (see paragraph 3.15). The project cost is based on final design



for most project components. Preliminary designs exist for the power
station, irrigation networks and one main irrigation conduit. Final designs
on these items will be completed while construction proceeds on the more
expensive elements (dams and multipurpose water conduits) which take longer
to build and for which designs are already completed. Excluded from the
costs are some Din 6 million (US$0.4 million) already paid for consulting
engineering services. The construction costs have been revised to take
account of actual unit prices for similar work in Yugoslavia at the begin-
ning of 1971. Provision has been made for physical contingencies of 15%
for final designs and 20% where only preliminary designs exist. Following
devaluation of the dinar in January 1971, provision has been made for infla-
tion of domestic costs at 8% per year and of foreign costs at 6% per year
during the 5-year construction period. With physical and price contingencies
amounting to 31% of the total cost of the ILE project the cost estimate should
be adequate.
3.09      The project consultants also prepared the cost estimates for all
items to be built by others than ILE, except for the Sitnica River levees,
where estimates were prepared by the Provincial Government. The cost of that
item could change as a result of further studies but no levees would be
constructed which are not economically justified (See paragraph 3.19).
3.10      The foreign exchange component of the ILE project cost is estimated
as follows:
Amount         % of ILE
(US$ million)    Project Cost
Minimum                    17.0             18
Maximum                    30.0             32
Probable                   23.0             25
Foreign contractors are expected to be attracted to the project by
the large value of the major contracts. In estimating the probable foreign
exchange component it has been assumed that the largest single contract
(construction of the Gazivode and Pridvorica dams and the hydroelectric plant)
would be won by a foreign contractor and that Yugoslavs would win all other
contracts. More than half of the probable foreign exchange component would
consist of the cost of construction equipment manufactured outside Yugoslavia
and wages and overheads for a foreign contractor. The balance is made up of
the foreign exchange element of construction materials 1/ and of equipment,
engineering services and training costs.
1/   Yugoslavia is a net importer of steel, cement, asbestos, and crude
oil.



- 10 -
E.   Loan Amount
3.11      The proposed Bank loan of US$45 million would cover 42% of the
ILE project cost of US$93.3 million, plus US$6.2 million for interest during
construction on the Bank loan. The loan is expected to cover the foreign
exchange component of US$23.0 million and US$15.8 million of the local
currency expenditures (this proportion of foreign exchange/local currency
financing is subject to possible variation as explained above).
F.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.12      All contracts for the supply of equipment and construction of
project facilities would be subject to international competitive bidding.
Local contractors and suppliers are expected to compete on every contilct.
Importation of foreign equipment is normally not allowed without a snecial
license, but procurement for Bank-financed projects is exempt from such
licenses. A margin of preference for local manufacturers of 15% or
customs duty, whichever is lower, will be applied for purposes of bid com-
parison.
3.13      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against the actual foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment and of training and engineering services.
The balance of the loan, covering both foreign and local currency expenditures,
would be disbursed as a percentage of all other contracts, whether won by
foreign contractors or by Yugoslavs. This disbursement percentage will be
44% of the value of all approved construction contracts Details of the an-
ticipated rate of disbursement of the loan are in Annex 4. Any unused balance
of the loan would be cancelled when project construction is completed.
G.   Execution of the Project
General
3.14      The complex nature of the Ibar multipurpose water project makes
it necessary for several different groups in Kosovo, with a broad range of
technical expertise and having responsibility for differing operations, to
coordinate their programs in the Ibar project. Planning for the overall
project originated in Kosovo and all affected parties have participated
in the development of the project to date. A high level of management
expertise will be demanded by the Ibar project. The prospects are good
that all parties will cooperate effectively and that experienced professional
personnel will be employed by them. This assessment is based on the known
system of recruitment and management incentives in Yugoslav enterprises and
on the good impression so far made by the local authorities who have been
responsible for planning the project.
Works by ILE
3.15      That part of the project for which ILE will be responsible
will be executed under the supervision of the engineering consultants,



- 11 -
Energoprojekt. This large Belgrade firm, active in international work,
has considerable experience in water resources projects; its performance
was good in supervising the construction of the Bajina Basta hydroelectric
plant, financed under Bank Loan 318-YU. ILE intends to retain Energoprojekt
to complete the detailed designs, prepare tender documents and supervise
construction. Conclusion of a contract between ILE and Energoprojekt (or
other consultants satisfactory to the Bank) to perform these engineering
services will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.16      Project construction for which Bank financing is proposed will
be carried out by contractors engaged by ILE under international competitive
bidding. Construction is expected to begin in 1971 and be completed in
1975 (see Annex 3). Five years are required for completion of the Gazivode
dam and this has established the timing of construction for most of the
other components of the project. Except for tunneling and grouting, no
construction work during the severe winter season is planned. Limited
additional supplies of water should be available for industries, communities
and irrigation in the Ibar valley in 1974, but dependable supplies of water
for most of the project area cannot be expected before 1976.
3.17      The maintenance roads to be constructed along the irrigation
canals and drains will also serve as farm roads. ILE will construct and
maintain these roads. ILE will also undertake the reconstruction of exist-
ing feeder roads and the construction of new ones in the project area.
Assurances have been obtained from ILE and the Provincial Government that
the appropriate road authority will be consulted in the design of the feeder
roads to be built by ILE and will be responsible for the maintenance of all
feeder roads in the area following completion of the project construction.
Further assurances have been obtained from ILE that the designs for the
proposed feeder roads will be submitted for Bank review and that these roads
will not be constructed without prior Bank approval.
Works by Others
3.18      The Provincial Government is responsible for soil conservation
works in the catchment areas of the project, including afforestation and
terracing. These measures, by retarding runoff and reducing erosion,
complement the erosion control structures being built under the ILE project.
The Provincial Government will complete soil conservation works in the
Project area before the end of construction of the Ibar project 1/.
3.19      To prevent flooding, the Provincial Government has an ongoing
program to construct levees along the Sitnica River where most of the
project lands are located. Levees have already been completed along some
17.5 km of the river (mainly to protect industrial centers) and a further
1/   The Provincial Government finances water control projects such as
erosion control works and river levees (paragraph 3.19) from its Water
Fund.  All beneficiaries of projects supplying waters such as the
Ibar project, pay a special charge of Din 0.01 per m to this Water
Fund.



- 12 -
30 km are planned. Future hydrologic conditions will be different from
those on which the original levee designs were based, due to construction
of the Batlava and Gracanka dams and the proposed Gazivode dam. Further-
more, the planned irrigation of the valley lands alters the economic
Justification fer l.vees. The Provincial Government has agreed to have
consultants satisfactory to the Bank review the present levee designs and
by the end of 1971 submit their revised proposals to the Government and
tile Bank for agreement. The Provincial Government has also agreed to
complete the levee program, as it may be revised by the consultants, before
any irrigation networks are constructed in the valley lands that the levees
would protect.
3.20      To connect the proposed Gazivode hydroelectric station to the
existing transmission system, some 32 km of 110 kv transmission line will
be built by Kombinat Kosovo, the principal power producer in the Province.
(See paragraph 3.39).
Water Availability
3.21      With the large storage reservoir of Gazivode (350 million m3
the project will utilize some 92% of the average annual flow in the Ibar
River 1/ (determined on the basis of 38 years of discharge records).
Abstraction of this water is authorized under existing Yugoslav regulations.
3.22      Operating rules for the reservoir will be required when its full
supply capacity is being utilized, after about 1985, to ensure that minor
reductions in the water supply during infrequent droughts will be reasonably
apportioned among the various users. By the end of 1974 the consultants
will complete studies to produce operating rules for the Gazivode reservoir
for agreement between ILE and the Bank, so as to ensure the optimum allo-
cation of water supplies to industries and communities, with acceptable
shortages for the irrigated area of 30,000 ha, during periods of extended
drought.  Details of water availability and utilization are in Annex 5.
Land in the Project Area
3.23      ILE will acquire the land for the project structures and reservoirs
by purchasing it from the present owners. The Gazivode damsite is uninhabited
so the first project work can commence in 1971 with no delay. Land purchase
procedures will commence in 1971. Most of the land required is in the
Gazivode reservoir area which will not be flooded until 1975. Expropriation
procedures can be resorted to if necessary without delaying construction,
hence no problems in this respect are anticipated.
3.24      Besides being small (see paragraph 2.14), farm holdings in the
project area are often fragmented. At the time the irrigation scheme is
implemented, these fragmented holdings would have to be reorganized, pre-
ferably by land consolidation. Existing laws and local precedents make such
1/   All water used in the hydroelectric power plant could be reused, as the
intake to the water delivery system will be downstream of the plant.



- 13 -
consolidation possible with the consent of two-thirds of the local landowners
(see Annex 8). Insofar as practicable, consolidation of land holdings will
be undertaken throughout the project area. This consolidation is desirable
but since over 90% of the irrigated area will be served by either sprinklers
or buried pipes it would not be essential; in areas where consolidation is
not practicable, adjustments will be made in farm boundaries so that they
will conform to the irrigation and drainage networks layout. Assurances have
been obtained that the Provincial Government will undertake a program of land
consolidation, or at least such adjustment of property boundaries as may be
required, commencing by mid-1972 before construction begins.
Detail Design Studies
3.25      Although a soil survey has been completed, indicating that the land
in the project area is generally suitable for irrigation (see Annex 8), a
detailed land classification for the entire project area is required for
detailed crop planning. This land classification will be completed by the
consultants by mid-1972 at a scale of 1:5,000, using standard specifications
acceptable to the Bank.
3.26      To determine the economic viability of draining 3,500 ha of low-
lying lands along the Sitnica River, a study will be carried out for that
area (which forms part of the total project area of 30,000 ha.). This drain-
age study will be completed by the consultants by the end of 1973 and no
construction will commence in the area before ILE and the Bank reach agreement
on the study's recommendations.
Project Operation
3.27      As construction of the project components is gradually completed,
commencing in 1973-74, ILE will build up its staff and be responsible for
operation and maintenance of all project facilities except the hydroelectric
plant (see paragraph 3.39). As a safeguard ILE has agreed to have consultants
satisfactory to the Bank inspect the dams and power tunnel at least every
three years to ensure that the structures are being adequately operated and
maintained. The organization proposed for ILE (Annex 11) is satisfactory.
Most of the permanent staff will be used for operation and maintenance of
the irrigation system, including supervision of portable sprinkler equipment
supplied to the farmers, with additional temporary laborers recruited as
needed. Before each irrigation season, ILE will consult with the extension
service workers to ensure consistency between the farmers' crop plans and the
water delivery schedule. The various training facilities for agricultural
technicians in the Province can provide sufficient staff to operate the project
effectively and specialized training for key professionals is planned during
the construction period.
SECTORAL AND ECOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
H.   Water Supply Aspects
3.28      The industries and communities receiving bulk metered supplies
of water at offtakes along the main conduits will have to make the neces-



- 14 -
sary arrangements to treat and distribute the water. Kombinats Trepca and
Kosovo presently have their own treatment and distribution systems and will
expand them as needed. At Kosovska Mitrovica, consultants (Energoprojekt)
have already been retained to design improvements to the water supply system
for the town so that water supplied by the Ibar project can be used for
domestic purposes when it becomes available there in 1974.
3.29      The other communities in the project area which are expected to
utilize Ibar water have made no definite plans to treat and distribute the
water after the project becomes operational, although they have already
indicated their intention to do so.   Consultants will be required to prepare
the necessary designs, as neither the Provincial Government nor the individual
communities have the required engineering staff. Recently, WHO experts
helped the Provincial Government prepare a request for a UNDP study that
would analyze the water supply, water pollution and waste disposal problems
throughout Kosovo Province and would propose solutions. This study would
produce plans for communities in the project area to treat and distribute
Ibar water. The UNDP project has not yet been officially requested and
if for some reason assistance is not forthcoming through this means, the
Provincial Government has agreed to engage consultants satisfactory to the
Bank to carry out the necessary studies, which will be completed for the
project area by the end of 1973.
3.30      In future, water for the Kosovska Mitrovica area will be supplied
by ILE from the proposed project conduits and the existing Preles system
(using flows regulated by the upstream Pridvorica and Gazivode dams). The
Preles weir and existing delivery system serving Kombinat Trepca, presently
owned by the Kombinat, will be turned over to ILE upon completion of the
project.
3.31      The Batlava dam and the present water supply system used by
Kombinat Kosovo will become redundant when the Ibar project is completed.
In about 1985, however, the industrial demand for water at Obilic may begin
to exceed the amount which can be provided from Ibar. As Kombinat Kosovo
is not certain whether or not it will require additional water at that time
it is not presently able to agree to release the Batlava dam for use by
others (possibly for irrigation). The intention is to turn over this water
supply facility to ILE if Kombinat Kosovo decides that it has no further need
for it.
I.   Agricultural Aspects
Production, Marketing, Extension Services and Credit
3.32      About 30,000 ha, located in the northern part of Kosovo Province
(see Map 1), will be irrigated under this project. This area was deter-
mined by the amount of water available after providing about 9.0 m3/sec to
industry and communities. The irrigation water requirements, utilizing 25%



- 15 -
of the annual volume of water supplied by the project, are discussed in
Annex 7. Following the introduction of irrigation, the cropping intensity
will be substantially increased, mostly through summer crops and the
reclamation of meadow lands.
3.33      As a result of the project the main crops in the area, in value
terms, would be fodder maize, vegetables, wheat, grain maize, alfalfa and
sugar beets. Present yields in the social and private sectors would more
than double (see Annex 8, tables 1 and 2). Livestock production would more
than triple and the present integration with crop production would be re-
inforced. With the Province depending on food imports from other parts of
the country, the crops and livestock which the project will produce at
competitive prices are expected to be marketed without difficulty. Except
for vegetables (most sales of which would be directly to consumers in
surrounding towns), the private farmers would sell their surplus produce
through either agro-industrial enterprises or governmental purchasing agen-
cies. Sugar beet and sunflower production would be processed in the now un-
der-utilized factories of the social sector. Fodder production would be
either used on-farm or sold for use by livestock in the area. Beef production
would be mainly for export to the European countries, where Yugoslavia
is presently finding it difficult to fulfill all of its contract obligations.
The projected milk production, roughly half the estimated increase in re-
quirements in Kosovo Province by the mid-1980's, would find a ready market.
The Adriatic Sea tourist resorts, soon to be connected to the area by new
highways (partially financed under Bank Loan 678-YU), would also provide an
outlet for the increased beef and vegetable production. More detailed
discussion of agricultural production under the project is in Annex 8.
3.34      Existing agricultural research and education facilities are ade-
quate to meet the project needs. However, the extension services -- pres-
ently limited to farmers who belong to service cooperatives -- will
have to be strengthened and expanded well ahead of irrigation. To this
end, the Provincial Government will prepare a program for the coordination
and expansion of extension services to be provided by the existing agricul-
tural organizations and provincial institutions to all farmers in the project
area, even if they do not belong to a service cooperative. Assurances have
been obtained that the Provincial Government will submit such a program for
Bank review by the end of 1971, cause the program to be implemented by mid-
1972 and ensure that the necessary funds are made available.
3.35      Following the introduction of irrigation, a total of about Din 82
million (US$5.5 million) of long-term credit would be required by the private
and social sectors, mainly for the purchase of farm structures, machinery,
equipment and high-quality livestock. The Banka Kosova would provide these
funds over a period of five years (see paragraph 6.02). The annual short-
term production credit requirements would be about Din 70 million (US$4.7
million) in the social sector and Din 55 million (US$3.7 million) in the
private sector. The Popular Bank of Yugoslavia, which is responsible for
short-term credit extended through various banking institutions in Kosovo



16 -
Province, would provide short-term credit to the social sector. Assurances
have been obtained that the Provincial Government will take all appropriate
measures, including the provision of the necessary funds, to ensure that all
farmers in the project area will have access to credit, farm inputs and farm
machinery services.
Water Charges and Farm Income
3.36      From the time of full agricultural development (expected by 1983)
the farmers' capacity to pay irrigation water charges will depend on the
cropping pattern and the returns from irrigation in the project area. The
practice in Kosovo is to set water charges according to the estimated usage
of water, based on the irrigated area and the crop grown (see Annex 1L0.
ILE has agreed to carry out a study by mid-1973 to determine the appropriate
level of water charges, taking into account the farmers' capacity to pay.
The Provincial Government and the Bank will be advised of the findings of
this study. ILE will introduce and maintain charges as agreed with the
Provincial Government beginning in the first year of irrigation (1974).
Preliminary analysis indicates that for the project area as a whole water
charges of Din 1,000 (US$67) per ha are realistic up to 1983 and Din 1,100
(US$73) per ha thereafter.
3.37      In the initial period of irrigation the farmers' operations will
be inefficient and hence they will have a relatively low (but increasing)
capacity to pay water charges. The Provincial Government has agreed with
the principle of subsidizing the farmers in the first few years of the project
by paying to ILE a portion of their water charges, the amount to be determined
following the completion of the study discussed above (paragraph 3.36). ILE
will charge only half of the agreed water charges in the first year that the
project can provide irrigation water to an area (2,000 ha in 1974 and the
remaining 28,000 ha in 1976). In the subsequent four years the farmers will
pay an increasing portion of the rates charged by ILE, with the balance being
paid by the Provincial Government. Preliminary estimates, outlined in Annex
14, indicate that the Provincial Government would provide about Din 27 mil-
lion (US$1.8 million) or 25% of the water charges during the initial period
(1974-79).
3.38      Full agricultural development is expected in 1983 following a
development period of 5 years in the social sector and 7 years for private
farmers. The relatively high yields which are then expected have already
been achieved under similar circumstances on the irrigation scheme at Prizren,
80 km west of the project area (see Map 1). Cash flows for various sized
farms are given in Tables 4, 5 and 6 of Annex 8, based on an average water
charge of Din 1,100 (US$73) per ha (which could be modified following the
study referred to in paragraph 3.36). The projected farm income, after
payment of water charges and deductions for family subsistence, would be
US$265 on a representative small farm of 1.5 ha and US$806 on a 4.5 ha
farm. While this projected income level would be low by Yugoslav standards,
it would be more than four times the present income level in the project
area. In the social sector, income per ha would more than triple.



- 17 -
J.   Power Aspects
3.39      The important Obilic thermal plant of Kombinat Kosovo, with
790 Mw installed by 1975, is located at the southern end of the ZEPS
system in an area where there are practically no other generating plants
and where the power demand is relatively small. Most of the generation
from Obilic will be exported by long 230 kv and 380 kv lines to Macedonia
and to northern Serbia. This situation makes Kombinat Kosovo's plant
vulnerable to disturbances on the system, which can cause plant tripouts
and general losses of power supply in the area. In such cases, the immediate
availability of direct power supply from the proposed 34 tMw Gazivode hydro-
electric plant, with its inherently quick self-starting characteristic,
would be adequate to prevent shut-downs of the gasification plant and to
start up the thermal units at Obilic. Kombinat Kosovo, which would thus
benefit directly from Gazivode plant, will enter into an agreement with ILE
whereby it will build the 110 kv transmission line (paragraph 3.20), would
operate the hydroelectric plant, and would buy all power it generates (95
Gwh per year average) at rates mutually agreed and consistent with the rates
set by ZEPS for similar types of generation (see Annex 13). Kombinat Kosovo
in turn will sell any surplus power from Gazivode to ZEPS. Details on the
operation, use and benefits of the hydroelectric plant are included in Annexes
9 and 10. A draft contract between Kombinat Kosovo and ILE covering construc-
tion of the transmission line, operation of the Gazivode hydroelectric plant
and the purchase of its power has been reviewed by the Bank and found satis-
factory. Signing of this contract will be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Loan.
K.   Ecological Aspects
3.40      Improved water supplies that the project will make possible are
expected to significantly improve public health and the quality of living
in the project area. No increase in waterborne diseases is expected as a
result of the irrigation component. Erosion in the project area will be
reduced by the soil conservation and erosion control measures. Downstream
of the project, the valley lands will be improved by reduction in flooding
and siltation brought about by construction of the Ibar reservoir. The
Gazivode dam will create a reservoir about 4 km long with a surface area
of some 1,025 ha and submerge some 500 ha of agricultural land. Farmers
presently living in the area will be relocated and compensated.
3.41      The project is near the upstream end of a long river system that
eventually reaches the Black Sea and serves many downstream users of the
river water. Wastes discharged by the two mineral-based industries that
will use most of the water provided by the project are already polluting the
Sitnica and Ibar Rivers and this pollution will tend to be intensified by
the reduction in flows resulting from abstraction of water from the Ibar
River by the project. The Government has created water quality standards
for all rivers which must be attained by 1975. To comply with these stan-
dards, which should greatly reduce river pollution, the principal industries
in the project area must install waste treatment facilities. Determination
of the appropriate facilities will require a thorough analysis of each com-



- 18 -
plex situation. The Provincial Government has agreed to employ consultants
satisfactory to the Bank to complete by the end of 1973 a study of methods
of treating the liquid wastes produced by Kombinat Kosovo and Kombinat
Trepca. ILE has indicated that it will engage these consultants as it would
be able to use the proposed Bank loan to meet possible foreign exchange
costs.
3.42      The same two mineral-based industries are also creating an air
pollution problem, and the pollution will tend to increase along with the
scale of their operations. Preliminary investigations indicate injurious
effects from air pollution on workers and residents near the plants.
Livestock and crops in the area are also believed to be adversely affected.
Yugoslavia has the technical resources to analyze and resolve this air
pollution problem. The Provincial Government has agreed to arrange for
consultants to complete a study of the situation by the end of 1972 and to
propose by mid-1973 the means of gradually reducing the pollution.
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      As the country's least developed region and with an annual per
capita income only one-third the national average, Kosovo Province has
major problems of unemployment and underemployment. The Federal Government
gives special emphasis to the Province's economic development, particularly
to the building of the necessary infrastructure. The Province accords top
priority to implementing the Ibar project as the first phase of the miiulti-
purpose Ibar-Lepenac scheme.
4.02      The demand of industries in the project area for water is expected
to triple in the next 15 years, mainly because of the planned rapid expansion
of the two mineral-based complexes at Obilic and Kosovska Mitrovica (see
Annex 6 for details on water consumption estimates). The Ibar River is the
largest in the area and development of that source through the proposed multi-
purpose project would be the least cost solution to supplying the estimated
demand. This component of the economic benefits of the Ibar project con-
sists of the savings in the estimated annual cost to industries resulting
from avoidance of the next highest cost alternative, which without Ibar,
would have to go forward. All project benefits are discussed in detail in
Annex 10.
4.03      The provision of an adequate and dependable supply of unpolluted
water to communities in the project area will be a first step toward the
provision of sanitary public water supplies and will be a catalyst for
further efforts to improve public health in the area. The incremental
cost of supplying this relatively small amount of water through the multi-
purpose project is negligible. The benefits of water for communities have
been conservatively measured as equivalent to the revenue from water sales.
There are additional benefits. The two main industrial complexes in the
Province currently have over 20,000 man-days of absenteeism each year caused
by infectious intestinal disease, some part of which is attributable to
unsanitary water supplies - but how much is not known.



- 19 -
4.04      Benefits of the Ibar project to agriculture are estimated as the
increase in farm-gate value of agriculture production, less increased pro-
duction costs, comparing the area under irrigation with the situation that
would have prevailed without the project. For the situation without the
project it was assumed that the 1.5% yearly growth rate in net value of
production from cereals production in the private sector, which prevailed
during the past 20 years, will continue, but that no further significant
increases in returns would be obtained in the social sector. Compared with
a present net value of production in the project area of Din 31.4 million
(US$2.1 million), the provision of water to irrigate 30,000 ha would cause
the net value of annual production to rise to Din 155.5 million (US$10.4
million) at full development in 1983 due to higher cropping intensity and
increased yields. The project will:
(a) allow the private farmers, which now support a farm population
estimated at 65,000, to enter the cash economy from
subsistence farming;
(b)  reduce underemployment in the agricultural sector; and
(c) increase foreign exchange earnings through increased beef
production.
4.05      The proposed 34 Mw hydroelectric plant, with an average annual
generation of 95 Gwh that can be regulated daily, would be used mainly for
generation of valuable peak power. The plant would also constitute a reserve
source of electric power supply to Kombinat Kosovo's industrial complex at
Obilic, adequate to prevent shut-downs of the gasification plant and to
supply power to start up the thermal generating units in event of disturb-
ances on the power system and a general loss of power in the Province. The
benefits to the economy of the project's power component are conservatively
estimated as the value of its generation to the regional system under normal
operating conditions, based on the price for equivalent power, with a small
addition for increased reliability of supply to the Obilic industrial complex.
4.06      Soil conservation works will reduce erosion in the project area.
Storage of sediment in the Gazivode reservoir and reduction of sediment in
run-off from other parts of the area will result in reduction of siltation
in river channels downstream of the project. In recognition of this bene-
fit, which will result in reduced costs of silt removal in downstream
reservoirs, the Djerdap hydroelectric/navigation complex on the Danube has
agreed to make a capital contribution of Din 70 million (US$4.7 million) for
the Ibar project. Benefits of sedimentation control are conservatively es-
timated as equivalent to the capital contribution of this single downstream
beneficiary.
4.07      The soil conservation measures and reservoirs in the project will
also reduce flood peaks in the Ibar valley downstream of the project. These
benefits have not been quantified and would be modest.



- 20 -
4.08      Air and river pollution in the area should be reduced following
the completion of studies and associated remedial action for which the project
would be the catalyst (see paragraphs 3.41 and 3.42).
4.09      The economic rate of return of the whole Ibar multipurpose project
is conservatively estimated to be about 15.6Z. The overall rate of return
would remain above 14.1% even under adverse assumptions concerning increased
costs and decreased benefits. See Annex 10.
4.10      To ensure that inclusion of individual components of this multi-
purpose project is warranted, the incremental costs of its three major
components (water supply, irrigation and power) and combinations thereof
were compared with their benefits. The analysis indicates that inclusion
of all project components, as proposed, is justified. The rate of return
on incremental costs and benefits of the irrigation component is estimated
as 11.5%. All other components have a higher rate of return (see Annex 10).
V. LENDING ARRANGEMENTS AND THE IBAR-LEPENAC ENTERPRISE
A.   Lending Arrangements
5.01      The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Government of Yugoslavia,
which in turn would conclude a subsidiary loan agreement with ILE. The loan,
on the original Bank terms would be relent to ILE. Conclusion of this sub-
sidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
5.02      In addition to the loan agreement with the Federal Government,
the Bank would enter into a joint project agreement with both ILE and the
Provincial Government to ensure proper execution and operation of the Ibar
project.
B.   Ibar-Lepenac Enterprise
i.   Organization
5.03      The most important form of business organization in Yugoslavia
is the enterprise. Comparable to incorporated companies in other countries,
enterprises are formed by registering with the Federal Government. They
enjoy considerable independence in the conduct of business and are self-
managed by their workers. A summary of the main financial principles and
regulations applicable to enterprises is in Annex 12.
5.04      ILE was founded as an enterprise by the Provincial Government
on February 28, 1967, and will go through three distinct phases under
Yugoslav law.
5.05      During the current phase (1967-1971) ILE is being directed by the
Provincial Government and a General Manager as an interim appointee. ILE's



- 21 -
expenses are met from Provincial Government budget allocations and outside
staff have worked on a part-time basis to help ILE prepare the project.
5.06      During the second phase (the construction period 1971-1975), ILE
will be directed by a 12-member Founders' Council. The Provincial Govern-
ment will nominate six of the members and ILE's working community will elect
the other six. The workers will directly participate in management through
referendum and voter meetings and indirectly through representation in the
Founders' Council.
5.07      During the third phase, after completion of construction in 1975,
ILE will operate as an autonomous enterprise. The Workers' Council (a
body elected by the workers of ILE) will appoint a Board of Directors to
set policy to be implemented by the appointed General Manager.  The Workers'
Council has the particular function of deciding about the distribution of
net income. It decides about the level of personal income of the workers,
the reinvestment of funds internally generated by ILE, and the establishmelnt
of reserve funds. Workers' Councils generally recognize the need to retain
adequate funds for self-financing of further expansion.
5.08      The internal organizational arrangements proposed for ILE are
satisfactory. The responsibilities of consultants and the enterprise have
been discussed in paragraphs 3.15, 3.16 and 3.27.  Organization charts are
in Annex 11.
ii. Management
5.09      The enterprise is now in its first phase and has less than ten
employees, including a competent General Manager. The limited management
activities to date have been handled well and the prospects for continued
sound management of ILE are good.
iii. Accounting and Audit
5.10      The accounting system to be used by ILE is prescribed by the
Federal Government and is uniform for all enterprises in Yugoslavia. Book-
keeping follows the double-entry system. The fundamental principle of the
Yugoslav system is accounting for the use of assets -- regarded as "social
property" entrusted to the working community -- with the objective of meas-
uring the rate of return for the social community. This system of account-
ing, though different in presentation of financial results than that used
in non-socialist countries, is consistent with sound commercial business
practices and is expected to provide satisfactory records of ILE's financial
operations.
5.11      The accounts of all Yugoslav enterprises are checked and certified
once a year by the Social Accounting Service, a department within the
National Bank which is independent of Government and Parliament. Agreement
has been reached that certified financial statements of ILE will be submitted
to the Bank within four months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 22 -
VT. FINATNCTAI, ASPFCTS
A.  Financing Plan
6.01      The following analysis of ILE's future financial performanLce is
based on estimated sources and application of funds, income statements and
balance sheets for the period 1971 through 1985 (See Annexes 15, 16 cY 17).
Assumptions made in these estimates are in Annex 14. The financing plan
for the construction and disbursement period 1971-1976 is summarized
below:
Dinars     USS
---- Tillion----
Requirements
Project Expenditures
(paragrapih 3.07)                             1,400.0   93.3   9s
Interest during construction                        93.0    6.2      r
Other capital expenditures                           3.0    0.2      -
llorking capital Including cash reserve             54.6  _ 3.6      4
Total Requirements                    1,550.6  103.3   100
Sources of Funds
Internal. cash generati.on                        152.4   10.2       -
Less:  Debt service                                 41.8    2.8      -
Net internal cash generation            110.6    7.4      7
IBRD Loan                                          675.0   45.0    44
Banka Kosova Loan                                  695.0   46.3    45
Contribution from Djerdap Enterprise                7n.0  _ 4.6   _ 4-
Total Sources of Funds                1,550.6  103.3   100
6.02      The financing requirements of ILE for the project construction
will have to be met mainly througlh horrowings. ILE's cash generation wzi.ll
be limited because revenue from operations will not be realized before 1974.
The Fund for Lesser Developed Regions and Republics is expected to be the
principal. source of funds, which would reach ILE as part of a loan from
Banka Kosova. This local bank is the channel for all capital from the
Fund which is destined for Kosovo Province. The Banka Kosova has additional
resources, both Federal and local, for projects of this type and it would
therefore be capable of providing adequate funds to complete the project.
It has completed investment programs of about Din 400 million (US$26.7 million)
in each of the past two years. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan the Banka Kosova will sign a loan agreement witlh ILE whereby it
will provide the residual local currency for the construction of the Ibar



- 23 -
nroject, including possible cost overruns. An additional lender's agreement
will also be concluded between IBRD and Banks Kosova, as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan, to ensure that the Banka Kosova
will meet these commitments and cooperate in the implementation of the
project.
6.03      A contract between ILE and Djerdap Enterprise regarding, a non-
returnable capital contribution of Din 70 million (TIS$4.6 million) towards
construction of the Gazivode dam, which will reduce sedimentation in the
downstream T_Jerdap reservoir, has already been signed.
6.04      The repayment terms proposed for the Bank loan (30 years includ-
Ing 6 vears' grace) and for the Banka Kosova loan (32 years including
7 vears' grace) are consistent with the intent of the Provincial Government
to keep ILE's repavyent obligations within its capacity to service the
debt and to provide funds for future expansion of TLE without having to
raise water charves heyond presentlv proposed levels. These average water
charges (qee Alnex 13) are exnected to be within the capacity of agricultural
users to pav (narargraph 3.36 and Annex 14), are satflfactorv to the comnun-
Ities and are acceptable to the main industrial users as long-term contract
prices for water purchased from ILE (parapraphs 6.07 and 6.10).
6.05      During the period of full oDeration beginning in 1q76, ILE is
expected to generate surplus cash that could be used for the partial finan-
cing of the Lepenac project, which might be undertaken bv ILE in later years.
Althouph no definite plans have yet been madr to undertake tlhis second
phase of the lhar-Lepenac scheme, UIE should be able to finance at lcast
25' of the tentatively estimated fututre capital exnend`tures of Din 719
million (US$48 million) from internallv generated ftunds if the Lepenac
project were begun after 1980. The remainder would have to be borrowed.
B.   Financial Forecasts
6.06      Although Yugoslav financial principles differ from those generally
apnl!ed in non-socialist countries in the concept of ownerslhip, priority of
obligations of an enterprise and disposition of net Income, they do recognize
the need to generate from revenue sufficient cash to cover all operating ex-
penses (includling depreciation) and to provide funds for debt service and
additional investments in the business or social facilities for the workers
(see Annex 12).  The financial forecasts are therefore shown 'in this report
in the format commonlv used in the Bank to measure financial performarnce.
suture actual financial statements of ILE, as prepared under Yugoslav
regulations, would be reconcilable withl these pro forma statements.
6.07      Future revenue from water sal .; to industry and communities and
from electricitv sales has been calculated on the basis of rates shown in
Annex 13 and are consistent with the rate structure proposedl bv ILE. Long-
tei-' contracts with main consumers for water and electricity would guarantee
about q01T of the estimated revenue to be obtalned from other than agricultural
uis.rs; more than 70nw of the total estimated future revenue from all users
is therebv assured.  As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan,
final contracts satisfactory to the Bank will be signed by ILE and the two
industrial enterprises (Kombinats Kosovo and Trepca). These contracts con-



- 24 -
tain provision for adjustment of rates if required, due to changes in con-
struction or operating costs or subsequent changes in valuation of fixed
assets.  The contracts will be reviewed with the Bank at the time of comple-
tion of the project.
6.08      Future revenue estimated to be obtained from the agricultural
users has been based on average water charges of Din 1,000 (US$67) per ha
of irrigated land from 1974 to 1983 and Din 1,100 (US$73) per ha thereafter
which will be applied to tihe agricultural sector as a wnole.  Details of
the agricultural water charges have been discussed in paragraphL 3.37 and
Annex 14.
6.09      The objective in determining water rates was to provide ILE Wi L
sufficient funds to cover operating costs, debt service and a portioni of
future capital expenditures.  The water rates to be chLarged by ILL (ALLnex 13)
plus revenues from the sale of electricity would achieve this objective.
The range of the financial rates of return on net fixed assets in operation
would be as follows:
1977    1981    1985
- - - - in - - - -
Financial Rates of Return on Net
Fixed Assets in Operation
Agriculture                                       1.6     0.3      0.5
Water Supply (industry and communities)          17.2    23.3    23.7
Power                                             7.2     8.3      9.8
Overall Rates of Return of ILE              7.0      8.2      8.6
6.10      These rates of return are calculated on the net fixed assets in
operation allocated to each project component or sector on the basis of
separable project costs and an appropriate share of joint project costs
(see Annexes 14, 15, 17). They reflect the fact that industrial users are
subsidizing the agricultural users who are only paying water clharges com-
mensurate with their capacity to pay 1/. The willingness of industrial users
to pay higher water charges than those which would result from a proportion-
ate allocation of revenue requirements to each sector is prompted by the
fact that the industries would have to develop more expensive alternative
water sources for their own use if they did not participate in the Ibar
project.
6.11      A 10% increase in project costs, on top of already included
contingencies, would result in a decrease of the rates of return by 0.7 to
1/   If all users had to pay water charges adequate to achieve in 1985 a rate
of return of 8% on net fixed a"sets allocated to their sector the unit
price for water would be Din 0.93 per m3 instead of Din 0.35 now pro-
posed to be cliarged to agricultural users, whereas industrial users
would only have to pay Din 0.16 per m3 instead of Din 0.49 per i3.



- 25 -
0.9 percentage points, whereas a 10% decrease in project costs would improve
the rates of return by up to 1.3 percentage points. Changes of up to 10%
in operating costs would only marginally affect the financial rates of re-
turn (see also paragraph 6.15).
f.12      The revenue fron the sale of water to agricultural users would
permit full coverage of operating costs and repayment of the investment
allocated to agriculture in about 50 years which is the expected useful
life of the assets. ILE is expected to achieve an annual debt service
coverage of 1.3 times after the end of the grace period on its borrowings
for the Ibar project (see Annex 16).
6.13      Net cash estimated to accumulate during the period 1977 through
1985 would amount to about Din 281 million (US$18.7 million) and is expected
to be used by ILE to finance additional capital expenditures such as the
Lepenac project (paragraph 6.05) and to cover part of the incremental debt
service on possible further borrowings for irrigation projects.
6.14      The estimated balance sheets for ILE (Annex 17) indicate that the
enterprise will build up equity, amounting to Din 458 million (US$30 mil-
lion) or 30% of total capitalization by 1985, as a result of operating the
Ibar project. This will provide an important component of ILE's capital
structure, particularly in view of the anticipated need of additional bor-
rowing for further water resource projects.
C.   Financial Covenants
6.15      Agreement has been reached whereby ILE will maintain a minimum
rate of return on reasonably valued total net fixed assets in operation of
7% after the first full year of operation of the project (1977) and 8% after
the fifth year. This will ensure that ILE will generate sufficient cash
to cover its operating expenses and debt service and will accumulate surplus
cash to make a contribution towards future capital expenditures, which would
be difficult to finance entirely from additional borrowings. The electricity
and water charges now proposed by ILE (Annex 13) will be sufficient to
achieve these rates of return.
6.16      Agreement has also been reached that ILE will not incur any long-
term debt unless the amount of net revenue before depreciation in the 12-
month period prior to the incurrence of the new debt will be not less than
1.2 times the maximum annual future debt service on all debt, including that
to be incurred.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      During negotiations it was agreed inter alia that ILE will:
(a)  construct the project using competent contractors selected
through international competitive bidding (paragraph 3.16);



- 26 -
(b) set and maintain water charges to the various consumers
sufficient to yield minimum specified rates of return
(paragraph 6.15);
(c) maintain a specified debt service ratio (paragraph 6.16).
7.02      During negotiations it was agreed inter alia that Kosovo Province,
which with ILE will sign the Project Agreement, will:
(a) ensure that plans are prepared for communities to utilize
the water supplied by the Ibar project (paragraph 3.29);
(b) complete soil conservation works (paragraph 3.18) and
river levees (paragraph 3.19) required in the project
area:
(c) prepare and implement a program to coordinate and expand
agricultural extension services to serve all farmers in
the project area (paragraph 3.34);
(d) ensure that all farmers in the project area have access
to credit, farm inputs and farm machinery services
(paragraph 3.35);
(e) meet a diminishing portion of the irrigation water
charges due from farmers during the first few years of
project operation (paragraph 3.37);
(f) complete studies concerning water pollution (paragraph
3.41) and air pollution (paragraph 3.42) in the project
area.
7.03      The proposed loan would not become effective until:
(a) Signing of a contract with engineering consultants
satisfactory to the Bank for project supervision
(paragraph 3.15);
(b) conclusion of purchase contracts for water between
ILE and the principal industrial consumers, Kombinat
Kosovo and Kombinat Trepca (paragraph 6.07);
(c) conclusion of a contract between ILE and Kombinat
Kosovo for the construction of the transmission line,
operation of the hydroelectric plant and purchase of
Gazivode power (paragraphs 3.20 and 3.39);



- 27 -
(d)  ronclunion of a loan agreement betwoen ITL  and P,anka
1osova for the provision of all local funds necessary
to complete the project, including possible cost over-
rtns (paragraph 6.03);
(e)  conclusion of a lenders' agreement between the Bank and
Banka Kosova (paragraph 0.02);
(f)  conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Fed-
eral Covernment and ITL  (paragraph 5.01).
April 19, 1971






ANNEX 1
Pag 
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Description of Proposed Project
1.        The Ibar project will utilize the flows of the Ibar River to
supply water to industries and communities, to irrigate 30,000 ha and to
generate electrical energy at a hydroelectric plant. The principal features
of the project are indicated on Map 2, outlined in the attached table and
described below.
2.        The Gazivode reservoir, which will have a storage volume equiva-
lent to 80% of the mean annual flow of the Ibar, makes possible the abstrac-
tion of 92% of this flow (see Annex 5). The reservoir will be created by
the construction of Gazivode dam, a large rockfill, clay-core structure
with a grout curtain across its foundation. During construction of the dam
the river will be diverted through a tunnel in the left abutment, which will
be modified at a later stage to serve permanently as a bottom outlet from
the reservoir. When the reservoir has been completed it will be possible
to release water over the spillway, through the bottom outlet of the dam,
or through the water conduit serving the power station.
3.        A second, smaller reservoir, a compensation basin, is located 6 km
downstream of Gazivode dam. The Pridvorica dam, the concrete and embankment
structure which creates the compensation basin, includes the intake struc-
ture for the main water supply conduits serving industries, communities and
the irrigated areas. This dam will have a spillway to pass floods dis-
charged at Gazivode dam and a bottom outlet to release water to the Ibar
River, both for the Preles weir downstream (where Kombinat Trepca has
the intake of its industrial water supply) and for compensation water. The
Pridvorica spillway is designed for a smaller flood than the Gazivode spill-
way but can pass the I in 1,000 year flood. It is more economical to make
repairs to the Pridvorica embankment in the rare event of a larger flood
than to increase this spillway capacity.
4.        The Gazivode hydroelectric plant, located on the right bank of
the Ibar River, includes a water conduit and a powerhouse with 2 x 17 Mw
generating units. The capacity of the plant was determined so that
the most economic use of the flow available for power generation would be
achieved, consistent with the requirements of the Serbian power system.
Power will be generated at times of peak demand and the Pridvorica compensa-
tion basin will retain the heavy flows discharged at peak hours and release
anl even flow to the main conduit of the water supply system through the
Intake structure. The Pridvorica compensation basin and the plant size
selected make it possible to utilize the system's maximtum water requirements
(during the summer irrigation season) for the generation of peak power dur-
ing a maximum of nine hours per day.



A1NEX 1
Page  2
5.        The water conduit from the Gazivode reservoir cuts across a bend
in the river to the powerhouse and includes sections of concrete-lined
tunnel, steel-lined tunnel and steel penstock. Near the downstream end of
the power tunnel is the two-stage surge chamber. Intake gates at tlue up-
stream end of the tunnel are operated through a vertical shaft situated
near the reservoir edge. Control gates are located downstream of the surge
chamber at the beginning of the penstock.
6.        The hydroelectric plant is to be connected to the existing
transmission network by a single circuit 110 kv line approximately 32 km
long, which will be constructed by Kombinat Kosovo, the region's major power
producer (paragraph 2.17).
7.        Water for industries, communities and irrigation is conveyed from
the Pridvorica dam tlhrough a total of 147 km of main supply conduits. Open
trapezoidal concrete-lined canals, the largest of which are some 9 m wide,
are used for 80' of this length, but difficult topography necessitates the
use of tunnels (20 totalling 15 km), syphons (26 totalling 12 km) and
aqueducts (29 totalling 2 km).
8.        The project provides irrigation to 30,000 ha; 23,300 ha in the
Ibar and Sitnica valleys and 6,700 ha in the Drenicko area.  On the basis
of topography and soil constraints, and with a view to increase irrigation
efficiency, the following irrigation methods would be used:
(a)  low-pressure asbestos cement pipes - 20,000 ha (67%);
(b) sprinklers - 7,000 ha (23%) 1/; and
(c) open-lined canals - 3,000 ha (10%).
About 53% of the area would be supplied by pumping and the balance by gra-
vity.  All portable equipment for sprinkler irriTati-on would be supplied L)y
the 1'ro jct.
9.        The Besinje pumping station provides water for some 6,600 ha of
the North Kosovo area.  The Hamidja pumping station serves 6,700 ha in the
Drenicko area.
10.       In the low-pressure pipe and open canal systems, tertiaries with
hydrants or outlets would bring water to unit areas of 4 ha. Throughout
the system field channels and drains (approximately 50 m per ha, requiring
8 man-days) would be constructed by the farmers with technical assistance
from ILE's staff. These very small costs are not included in the project.
11.       Land levelling would be carried out in about 5,000 ha in area
served by low-pressure pipe and canal systems.
1/   Through portable diesel pumps in Ibar valley (2,000 ha) and by
gravity in North Kosovo (5,000 ha).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
12.       A surface drainage system spaced at 200-400 m intervals would
remove excess rain and irrigation water from the irrigated area. About
3,500 ha of low-lying land along the Sitnica River would be reclaimed by
intensive field drainage with deep open channels and buried tile drains
(2,000 ha). Twelve small pumping stations (100-400 1/sec) would be required.
Development of this area would depend on the findings of the drainage study
to be carried out under the project (paragraph 3.26). The Sitnica River
would be used as the main drainage collector and would be regulated between
levees to prevent flooding of the irrigated area. About 17.5 km of levees
have already been constructed, mainly to protect industrial centers. The
Provincial Government will construct about 30 km of additional levees to
protect low-lying agricultural lands following further studies to define
the amount of protection which is justified (paragraph 3.19). Interception
drainage channels (124 km) along the perimeter of the project area will
protect it from external run-off.
13.       Roads included in the project are as follows:
(a) reconstruction of 42 km of existing gravel surface village
roads;
(b) construction of about 49 km of new gravel surface vil-
lage roads; and
(c) construction of about 633 km of earth surface roads
along irrigation canals and drains, for use as mainten-
ance roads and farm roads.
The detailed design of the road system will take into account the detailed
design of the irrigation networks and the existing roads in the area.
14.       Erosion control and soil conservation works are designed to
minimize erosion and sediment production in the watersheds in the project
area and to protect the main conduits against floods. Hydraulic structures
on torrential streams will be built as part of the project by ILE. The
Provincial Government will be responsible for afforestation and terracing
in the catchment areas to retard runoff and reduce erosion (paragraph 3.18).
15.       A telecommunication system will connect the watchmen's lodges
located on major works and control structures to the field offices and the
head office of ILE in Pristina.
16.       During the last three years of the construction period, the project
would finance 90 man-months of training, locally and abroad, of fifteen
professionals of ILE in the fields of operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems (6), drainage (1), irrigated agriculture (6), and farm economics (2).
17.       The purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance of the
facilities after completion of construction is included in the project.



ANNLX I
Page 4
TABLE 1
DATA FOR PRINCIPAL COMPONENTS OF IBAR PROJECT
Gazivode Dam and Reservoir
Type of dam                                     Rockfill with clay core
Maximum height of dam                           107.5 m
Crest length of dam                             520 m
Volume of dam                                   5 million m3
Depth of grout curtain:  left bank              60 m
right bank           100 m
Diversion tunnel:  diameter                     5.8 m
length                     663 m
Reservoir storage:  gross                       370 million m3
live                      350 million m3
dead                      20 million m3
Reservoir range                                 67.7 m
Estimated annual deposit of sediment            0.3 million m3
Spillway:
Design flood frequency                    0.01% (1 in 10,000 years)
Inflow design flow flood                  1,500 m3/sec
Maximum spillway discharge                1,210 m3/sec
Type                                      Ski-jump
Crest length                              80 m
Number of flap gates                      4
Length of chute                           311 m.
Pridvorica Dam and Compensation Basin
Type of dam                                     Concrete with earth abutment
Maximum height of dam                           10 m
Crest length of dam                             330 m
Volume of dam:  concrete                        15,000 m3
earth                          72,000 m3
Reservoir live storage                         0.435 million m3
Reservoir range                                 2 m
Spillway:  Design capacity                     900 m3/sec
Crest length                        33 m
Number of radial gates              3
Bottom outlet capacity                         2.0 m3/sec
Intake structure capacity
(for main water supply conduit)           22.2 m3/sec
Gazivode Hydroelectric Plant
Installed capacity                              2 x 17 Mw
Average annual generation                       95 Gwh
Type of turbines                                Francis, 300 rpm
Range of gross head                            50 to 116 m
Net head                                        111 m
Maximum total flow                              36 n3/bec



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Table 1 (continued)
Water conduit from reservoir to powerhouse:
Concrete-lined tunnel:   length                810 m
diameter               4 m
Two-stage surge chamber:  height                90 m
diameter               7 m
Steel-lined tunnel:  length                    120 m
diameter                   3 m
Steel penstock:  length                         40 m
diameter                        3 m
Main Water Supply Conduits
Total length                                    147 km
Trapezoidal concrete-lined channels:
maximum width                          9 m
total length                         118 km
Tunnels:  number                                 20
total length                          15 km
Syphons:  number                                 26
total length                          12 km
Flumes:   number                                 29
total length                           2 km
Pumping Stations
Besinje:  Required capacity                      3.4 m3/sec
Number of pumps                       3
Type of pumps                         horizontal centrifugal,
electrically driven
Total pumping head                    66 m
Llamidja:  Required capacity                         3.5 m3/sec
Number of pumps                           3
Type of pumps                             horizontal centrifugal,
electrically driven
Total pumping head                        86 m
April 8, 1971






IBAR PROJECT
COST ESTIMATE OF PROPOSED PROJECT /
------------------ Local Costs -------------------            ------------_ --_ Foreign Costs ------------------              ------ TOTAL ------
1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      Total        1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      Total           Din          us$
-------------------------------------------- in Million Dinars ----                 ---- ---- -----                           _    __
1.  Gazivode Dam                  4.3      36.3     46.8      50.2      38.1      175.7         2.9      20.0      31.1      33.5      25.4      112.9           288.6        19.2
2.  Hydroelectric Plant            -        -        9.8      17.9       8.8       36.5          -         -        6.6      12.0       5.9       24.5            61.0         4.1
3.  Pridvorica Dam                 -        4.8      5.5       -         -         10.3           -       4.2       3.6       -         -          7.8            18.1         1.2
4,  Multipurpose Conduits          -      29.6      62.2      51.2      10.1      153.1           -      13.7      18.3      16.9       4.4       53.3           206.4        13.8
5.  Irrigation Conduits            -        -       19.8      31.9      26.7       78.4           -        -        5.8      10.6      11.6       28.0          106.4          7.1
6.  Pump Stations                  -        -        -         4.o       6.o       10.0           -         -       -         1.7       2.6        4.3            14.3         0.9
7.  Irrigation Networks            -        -       20.6      33.5      39.2       93.3           -         -       5.2       8.4       9.7       23.3           116.6         7.8
8.  Drainage Networks              -        -        1.6      13.2      17.5       32.3           -         -       0.2       1.5       1.9         3.6           35.9         2.4
9.  Feeder Roads  7                -       0.5       4.2       4.5       5.2       14.4           -       0.2       1.1       o.8       1.5        3.6            18.0         1.2
10.  Land Levelling                 -        -         -        2.4       3.6        6.o           -         -        -         o.6      1.0         1.6            7.6         0.5
11.  Tile Drainage                  -        -         -        -         1.5        1.5           -         -        -         -        -          -               1.5         0.1
12.  Erosion Control                -        4.o       4.o      4.1       4.1       16.2           -        0.3       0.3       0.2      0.2        1.0            17.2         1.1
13.  Telecommunications             -        0.1       0.2       -        -          0.3           -        o.4       0.2       -         -          o.6            0.9         0.1
14.  Operation  & Maintenance
Equipment                    -        -         -         -         3.1        3.1          -                                      2.5        2.5             5.6         o.4
15.  Land                          3.4       5.7       4.6      2.7       -         16.4                         -                        -          -             16.4         1.1
16.  Training                       -        -         0.3       0.3      0.2         0.8          -         -        0.2       0.2       0.3        0.7            1.5         0.1
17.  Engineering                   8.1       8.5       8.8      8.8        9.0      43.2           -        0.2       0.3       0.3       -          o.8           44.o         2.9
18.  Offices and Equipment         0.8       0.3        -       -         -           1.1               -        -         -                                        1.1         0.1
19. Administration                 1.2       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0         9.2                   -                    -                                  9.2         o.6
Sub-Total                   17.8      91.8    190.4    226.7    175.1         701.8         2.9      39.0      72.9      86.7      67.0      268.5          970.3         64.7
Physical Contingencies       2.3      15.4      31.1      37.1      28.8      114.7         0.1       3.8       7.0       8.2       6.4       25.5          140.2          9.3
Price Increases              O.6      14.5      49.3      85.4      88.7      238.5         0.1       3.1      io.6      18.2      19.0       51.0           289.5        19.3
Total                 20.7    121.7    270.8    349.2    292.6   1,055.0              3.1      45.9      90.5    113.1       92.4      345.0                        93.3
1/ This estimate includes only the work for which ILE is responsible.
7 Costs of irrigation canals and drainis include adjacent earTh EsUface roals.
MArch 10, 1971






ANNEX 3
IBAR PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1971        1972         1973        1974         1975
J |F WAMJI J lASkC| | WAW JI || oF   H AWNJ;JASN CJF   J1 jWS6   JI |6JjA|S6 
Copl etion of Diversion Tunne       _               lin
GAZIVODE DAM
PRIDVORICA DAM
HYDROELECTRIC PLANT
MAIN CONDUITS
-MULTIPURPOSE
-IRRIGATION
PUMP STATIONS
6,500~      1150ha2,Oh
IRRIGATION NETWORKS
DRAINAGE NETWORKS
ROADS
ON-FARM  DEVELOPMENT 
-LAND LEVELLING                                    L                     2 0  ha
-TILE DRAINAGE
EROSION CONTROL WORKS                    I
TEL ECOMMUN ICATIONS
O & M EQUIPMENT                                                           111hlI
TRAINING
LAND ACQUISITION
IBRD - 5316(2R)






ANNEX 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
1.        The following table shows the estimated undisbursed amount of the
proposed loan at the end of each quarter:
IBRD Fiscal Year                              Cumulative
and Quarter                       Disbursement at end of Quarter
(Million US$)
1971/72
December 31, 1971                                 0.3
March 31, 1972                                    0.5
June 30, 1972                                     1.0
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                2.3
December 31, 1972                                 3.9
March 31, 1973                                    5.2
June 30, 1973                                     6.1
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                8.7
December 31, 1973                                13.0
March 31, 1974                                   15.6
June 30, 1974                                    17.1
1974/75
September 30, 1974                               20.4
December 31, 1974                                26.2
March 31, 1975                                   29.6
June 30, 1975                                    31.4
1975/76
September 30, 1975                               35.2
December 31, 1975                                41.5
March 31, 1976                                   42.7
June 30, 1976                                    45.0
2.        This schedule is based on the following assumptions:
(a) loan for US$45 million equivalent becomes effective in
May 1971;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) interest rate 7-1/4% and grace period 6 years;
(c) construction of project commences in 1971 and completion
of construction at end of 1975; and
(d) disbursement against the actual foreign exchange cost
of imported equipment and of training and engineering
services and as a standard percentage of all other
contracts.
April 8, 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Water Availability and Utilization
1.        The Ibar River has a catchment area of 1,060 km2 above the
Gazivode damsite. A river gauging station has been operated at Ribaric,
23 km upstream of Gazivode, since 1924 (with the exception of the period
1940-45), and at the Gazivode site for three years (1960-63). Runoff data at
Gazivode has been computed for the 38-year period of record. The mean
annual runoff is 13.65 m3/sec (430 million m3/year).
2.        The Gazivode reservoir's live storage volume of 350 million m3
would be large enough to regulate the natural river flows with limited spill-
ing so that most of the Ibar River's water could be utilized by the project.
The estimated supply capacity of the project would be as follows:
Million m 3/year          %
Industry (8.8 m /sec con-
tinous)                        278                 73.3
Irrigation (30,000 ha)               95 /1               25.1
3
Communities (0.2 m3/sec
continuous)                      6                  1.6
Total Utilization              379                100.0
Including an overall allowance of 5% for conveyance losses the average         3
annual abstraction from the Gazivode reservoir would be about 398 million m
or 92% of the mean annual runoff.
3.        During extreme low flow conditions, 100% of these demands for
water could not be met continuously. The project is intended to give
priority of supply to domestic and industrial consumers. A reservoir
simulation over a 21-year period of record (1947-1968), using preliminary
operating rules, indicated that an acceptable supply of water for the irri-
gation of 30,000 ha could have been provided in 20 out of 21 years (with
a 43% shortage in one year). In the same period industrial water shortages
of up to 40% of requirements occurred in a total of seven months (2.8% of
the time). Such shortages would be unlikely during the first 10 years of
the project operation as water demand would not reach the supply capacity of
the project until approximately 1985.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/1    The total irrigation demand of 105 million m 3/year referred to in
Annex 7 includes conveyance losses.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Further study of reservoir operating rules is required, both to
assist in project operation and to better define the maximum quantity
available for industrial consumption (and the associated reliability of this
supply) while assuring an acceptable supply of water for domestic consumers
and for the irrigation of 30,000 ha. A slight change in the maximum volume
which can be supplied regularly to industry would result if the required
reliability of this supply differed from that assumed in the preliminary
studies. Alternatively an independent source, such as the existing Batlava
reservoir, could be reserved to compensate for minor deficiencies in the
water supplied from the Ibar project. These possible variations would not
significantly affect the benefits assumed to result from the Ibar project.
5.        Whereas the projected water consumption of industry and communities
would be relatively constant throughout each year, irrigation requirements
are reetricted to the sumner months, generally from May to September, and
would vary from year to year depending on the actual precipitation. After
industrial water demand reaches the project's supply capacity, operation of
the Gazivode reservoir would release water in accordance with downstream re-
quirements so that more power could be produced in summer than in winter.
In the early years of project operation, when spare capacity exists, releases
of excess water could be timed to suit requirements of the power system.
April 2, 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Industrial and Domestic Water Supply
Sector in Kosovo Province
A.   Present Situation
1.        Responsibility for water supplies rests with the local authorities:
there is no central water resources agency. As these local authorities do
not have the resources to design and construct systems, this work is gene-
rally done by consultants and contractors. Operation of water supplies
at the local level is poor.
2.        Each of the nine main towns in the Province -- Pristina, Kosovska
Mitrovica, Pec, Prizren, Djakovica, Urosevac, Gnjilane, Vuciturn and
Orahovac -- has a central water supply system (see Map 1). As the popula-
tion of all nine towns does not exceed 300,000 and as the percentage of
local population supplied from each central system varies from 20% to 60%,
only about 10% of the 1.2 million total population of the Province is sup-
plied from public systems. In all the towns except Pristina, the water sup-
plied from the public systems is regarded by the local Health Institute as
unsafe. Private supplies are an even greater source of waterborne infection.
3.        People not served by the central water supply systems obtain their
water from springs, streams and private shallow wells. Most of these
sources are polluted (out of 664 private wells investigated by health offi-
cials during 1964-67, 558 were found to be contaminated).
4.        Industries obtain their water supplies from thie particular town's
central system (if available or adequate) or from their own system, depend-
ing on the quantity and quality of water required.
5.        Typhoid fever, bacillary dysentery and infectious hepatitis are
endemic in the region and epidemics are frequent; the water supply systems
have been found to be the principal source of infection. It is significant
to note that a few years ago, when WHO was testing the effects of typhoid
vaccination, Kosovo Province was selected from among several areas of the
world as the most suitable for the studies, largely because of the consis-
tently high rate of typhoid and frequency of epidemics in the area.
6.        Since the method of financing and operating each independent system
varies, the water supplies of towns and industries in the vicinity of the
Ibar project are described individually below. The various towns and
facilities are shown on Maps 1 and 2.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Pristina (population 65,000)
7.        A dam and impounding reservoir were built on the Gracanka River
(tributary to the Sitnica River) in 1965-66 to supply this provincial capi-
tal. The reservoir has a capacity of 24,000,000 mi, which can supply an
estimated 0.78 m3/sec continuously. Treated water is supplied to other
nearby centers, such as the industrial center of Obllic. The authorities
estimate that some 70,000 people are supplied from this system.
8.        Present treatment consists of aeration, pre-chlorination, coagula-
tion, sedimentation, rapid sand filtration and post-chlorination at a treat-
ment plant on a hill above the reservoir.
9.        In addition to the treated water supplied from the Gracanka dam,
untreated water is supplied both to industry (flotation of lead/zinc ore)
and agriculture (irrigation of some 2,260 ha, as shown on Map 1). Except
for a long-term commitment to provide 0.075 m3/sec for the mining industry,
which participated in financing the Gracanka dam, supplies to agriculture
and industry will be cut off as the demand for water for domestic purposes
grows. The Ibar project is expected to replace the Gracanka source for
these low priority consumers.
10.       Domestic water is supplied by approximately 5,000 metered private
connections and 24 public water points. Domestic consumers pay a subsidized
rate of Din 0.80/m3 for treated water.  Public institutions pay Din 1.20/m3
and industry Din 2.00/m3m. Untreated water is sold to the lead/zinc industry
at a contract rate of Din 0.21/m3. The water supply seems to be in finan-
cial difficulty and in need of a rate increase which would have to be
approved by the commune.
Kosovska Mitrovica (population 41,000)
11.       This town's central supply system obtains water from shallow wells
and filtration galleries on the left bank of the Ibar River. The supply is
inadequate and shortages are frequent, particularly in the summer. The
only treatment is disinfection by chlorination. Water is sold on a metered
basis at Din 0.75/m3 for domestic use and Din 1.85/m3 for industry.  Water
from the system has recently been implicated in an epidemic of infectious
hepatitis.
12.       Consultants (Energoprojekt of Belgrade) are presently designing
an augmentation to the existing water supply for the town. In the initial
phase water will be pumped from the Ibar but after completion of the Ibar
project, the source will be the proposed main conduit from the Pridvorica
dam.
13.       Kombinat Trepca, operating the lead/zinc industry, has its own
water supplies in this area. At the Preles weir on the Ibar River is a sim-
ple sedimentation tank from which water flows to the industry through 14 km
of concrete-lined canals, syphons and tunnels. The conduit has a nominal



ANNEX 6
Page 3
capacity of 1.100 m3/sec but water delivery is limited to about 0.960 m3/sec
by leakage in the system. This Kombinat also pumps water from the Ibar and
Sitnica Rivers in the town area to augment its supply of untreated water.
Obilic (population 5,000)
14.       In this industrial complex, Kombinat Kosovo operates its own
water supply to provide for the various industrial water requirements.
Water is pumped from the Lab River and treated in pressure filters at
Prugovac. It is then pumped some 10 km to Obilic. To augment low flows
in the Lab River, the Batlava dam was built on an upstream tributary. This
dam, with a storage volume of 36,000,000 m3, was initially built to irrigate
some 9,000 ha in the Little Kosovo area of the Lab valley, but when the
industrial requirements at Obilic increased, the irrigation scheme was
deferred. Batlava dam and the Prugovac pumping station are at present being
used exclusively by Kombinat Kosovo. Lack of metering on this supply makes
definition of the capacity difficult, but the Kombinat estimates that the
dependable capacity of the Batlava scheme is about 1.1 m3/sec. Under
natural conditions, more water is available most of the time.
15.       Treated water from the Gracanka scheme is also supplied for domes-
tic requirements at Obilic.
Vuciturn (population 13 2000)
16.       An old spring intake, private wells and a new well near the
Sitnica River provide this town's basic supply, distributed through two
public water points. Most of the water is polluted, no treatment is provided,
and there are regular shortages. Since phenol is occasionally found in water
from the well near the river (due to wastes discharged upstream), this source
can be used only irregularly. Waterborne diseases are endemic in the commun-
ity, with epidemics occurring almost every year.
B.   Estimated Water Consumption of Industry and Communities
Industries
17.       Records are not available on past trends in water consumption of
the industries in the project area. No water meters are installed, hence
estimates of present consumption cannot be verified.
18.       Future water consumption is based on the planned expansion of
industrial output. Water for industry is required at two principal locations
in the project area -- Kosovska Mitrovica and Obilic. In each location, a
single enterprise requires the greatest portion of the water and is prepared
to sign long-term purchase contracts with ILE for its supply. Kombinat Trepea
is at Kosovska Mitrovica and Kombinat Kosovo at Obilic. In addition to the
water requirements of these two main enterprises, there are a number of
smaller industrial consumers in each location whose estimated future demand
is only a small proportion of that of the two Kombinats.



ANNKX 6
Page 4
19.       The estimated industrial water consumption for the two areas,
prepared by the consultants, is as follows:
Estimated Annual Consumption in million m3
---Kosovska Mitrovica- -        -----Obilic---------
Kombinat            Sub-     Kombinat             Sub-
Year     Trepca    Other   Total       Kosovo     Other  Total    TOTAL
1970      49.2        -      49.2       38.0        3.4   41.4      90.6
1975      77.2       3.9     81.1       78.4        3.4   81.8      162.9
1980      78.2       3.9     82.1      127.0        3.3  130.4     212.5
1985      83.5       6.1     89.6      176.1       12.6  188.7      278.3
20.       These volumes are estimated to be required at a continuous rate,
with little seasonal variation (about 10%), as the industrial processes
which are to be supplied will operate continuously.
21.       Kombinat Trepca plans to use most of the water for the lead/zinc
industry (in flotation, smelting and refinery operations and the production
of lead batteries and superphosphate fertilizer). Officials estimate that
very little of this water will be recirculated as it would be uneconomic
to reclaim it.
22.       In the Obilic complex, most industry is related to exploitation
of the abundant lignite reserves in the area. In 1970, for example, 79%
of the estimated consumption was for cooling water for the 590 Mw thermal
electric generating plant. In 1985, Kombinat Kosovo expects to have some
2,400 Mw installed at Obilic; almost 50% of their water consumption would
then be for power plant cooling. All cooling water used now and in the
future is to be recirculated. The water is needed to make up losses. Other
planned industrial processes at Obilic include coal-drying and gasification
(now in operation) and production of nitrogeneous fertilizers, caprolactam,
sulphuric acid and nickel. Recirculation of most water is planned.
23.       The necessary margin of error in these estimates should be taken
into account. They are based on consumption that is not metered and are
projections for 15 years, to more than 300% of present requirements, on the
basis of planned industrial expansion. Changes in markets or technology
could cause significant changes in associated water consumption.
Communities
24.       The estimated population in the Ibar project area, excluding
the town of Pristina (which has its own adequate water supply), is presently
200,000. Kosovska Mitrovica, the largest town to be served by the Ibar
project, has a population-currently estimated at 41,000. Annual net
population increase in Kosovd Province is estimated at 2.85%.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
25.       Estimates of water the lbar project will provide to communities in
the area have been provided by the consultants as follows:
Year                         1976  1979  1982  1985
Consumption (million m3)    2.9   4.0   5.0   6.1
26.       Assuming that the population grows at 2.85% annually and that about
50% of the people in the project area are provided with water by the project
in 1985, this would be equivalent to a per capita daily consumption of
about 110 liters, a reasonable figure. Until the engineering studies referred
to in paragraph 3.29 are completed, it is not possible to provide more
accurate estimates of the future domestic water consumption. As the 1985
estimate represents only 1.5% of the total water utilization under the project,
it is apparent that a 100% change in the estimate would have little impact on
the rest of the project.
April 8, 1971






ANNEX 7
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Water Supply for Agriculture
1.        The irrigation water requirements for the project were calculated
using the Blaney-Criddle method 1/, and are as follows:
Irrigation Requirements
per season, in mm
Crqo               Field             Diversion
Wheat               35                    39
Barley, spring    110                    122
Sugar beet         376                  418
Sunflower          160                   178
Maize (grain)      279                   310
Maize (fodder)    273                    303
Vetch, Rye          45                    50
Alfalfa            480                   533
Vegetables         450                   500
The 80% change effective rainfall has been deducted and a field efficiency
of 75% and conveyance losses of 10% have been taken into account, giving an
overall efficiency of 67.5%. These levels have been adopted in view of the
all-lined conveyance and distribution system and the extent of the low-
pressure pipe (67%) and sprinkler networks (23%).
2.        The calculations for the four main crops -- sugar beet, maize
(grain), maize (fodder) and alfalfa -- are presented in Table 1. These water
requirements were checked with actual practice in the Gracanka sprinkler
system (2,000 ha) in the vicinity of the project, and the Prizren network
(5,600 ha) in the Metohija plain.
3.        The estimated seasonal irrigation demand below reservoir would be
105 million m3 2/, or 3,500 m3 per ha. Peak monthly demand of 35.7 million m3
would occur in July (see Table 2) and the continuous discharge to neet this
requirement is 0.45 1/sec/ha. The short period peak demand without taking
into account rainfall is estimated at 0.513 1/sec/ha/or a total demand at
the Pridvorica dam of 15.4 m3/sec.
1/   With the modifications of the Soil Conservation Service (United States
Department of Agriculture) Tectnical Release No. 21, April 1967.
2/   The net irrigation demand of 95 million m3/year referred to in Annex 5
excludes the assumed conveyance losses from the reservoir to the field
turnout.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Design capacities proposed by the consultants for all major con-
duits, pumping stations and structures would be adequate to accommodate this
maximum flow.
5.        Data on the quality of the Ibar water indicate that the soluble
salt content is very low (less than 370 mg/i) and that bicarbonate ioll is
dominant.  Tthe water is suitable for continuous irrigation with practically
no salinity or sodium hazard.
6.        On the basis of sediment measurements, it was found that the annual
loss of the reservoir storage space would be in thie order of 0.3 million m3.
Lhis corresponds to less than one part per thousand of the total capacity,
and is acceptable for the life expectancy of the project.
TABLE 1: Seasonal Irrigation Requirements by
Main Crops at Pristina, (Latitude 4241' North)
Sugar   Maize      Maize   Alfalfa
beet    (grain)  (fodder)
--in millimeters----------
Average season, consumptive use               484       408       264        638
Average rainfall                              195       195        105       280
Effective rainfall                            144       129         71       198
Carry-over soil moisture                       90        90         -        120
Average net irrigation requirements           250       189        193       320
Average gross irrigation requirements:
Field (E = 75%)                          333      252        257        427
Diversion (E = 90%)                      370      280        286        474
Calculations based on 80% Chance Rainfall, adopted for Ibar Project
80% chance rainfall                           151       151         79       217
Effective rainfall                            112       109        59        158
Carry-over soil moisture                       90        90        -         120
20% chance net irrigation requirements        282       209       205        360
20% chance gross irrigation requirements:
Field (E = 75%)                         376       279        273        480
Diversion (E = 90%)                     418       310        303        533



TABLE 2: Estimated Water Requirements for Agriculture
Gross Irrigation Requirements2L .....   ..Monthly Diversion Irrigation Demand...
(in m3/ha)                                  (in million mi)
Area
(ha net)  M     June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Total   May    June   July   Aug    Sept.  Total
Wheat                 11,400   390      -       - 5              -       390   4.5       -                            4.5
Barley                   400   390    830       -       _       -      1,220   0.1      0.4     -       -      -     0.5
Sugar beet              2,900    -   1 ,430  1,890     860       -     4,180    -       4.0    5.4    2.5      -    11.9
Sunflower              1,100    -  1 ,000    780        -        -     1,780    -       1.1    0.9      -      -      2.0
Maize (grain)           8,500    -     690  1 ,61 0    800       -     3,1 00    -      5.9   13.7    6.8      -    26.4
Maize (fodder)          8,500    -      -      640   1,640     750    3,030    -         -     5.5   1 3.9    6.4   25.8
Vetch Rye               3,000    -      -       -       -      500       500    -        -      -       -     1.5    1.5
Alfalfa                 3,300   270  1,51 0  1 ,690   1,700    160    5,330   0.9       5.0    5.6    5.6    0.5   17.6
Vegetables              2,500   440  1,240  1,840   1 ,800      600    5,920   1 .1     3.1    4.6    4.5    1.5   14.8
Monthly Totals       (41,6oo)                                                 6.6    1 9.5   35.7   33.3    9.9  105.0
1/ Based on monthly estimates derived by Blaney-Cridle method
(80% chance effective rainfall), field efficiency 75%, conveyance losses 10%.
December 18, 1970






ANNEX 8
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Agriculture in the Project Area
A.   General
Location
1.        The project area, extending over 35,000 ha gross, is in the
northern part of the Kosovo plain (see Map 1) and consists of:
(a) the Ibarsko Polje, 3,000 ha, a narrow valley along the upper
Ibar River;
(b)  the North Kosovo Polje, 24,000 ha, the northern part of the
Kosovo plain drained by the Sitnica River; and
(c) the Drenicko Polje, 8,000 ha, a high plateau located about
8 km southwest of the North Kosovo plain and drained by
the Drenica River, a tributary of the Sitnica.
Climate
2.        The Kosovo plain has an intermediate type of climate, between the
continental and the arid, with an average yearly temperature of 10C and
precipitation of 580 mm. The winters are long and cold, lasting from mid-
November until March, with a minimum temperature in January of -200C.
Half the winter precipitation of about 220 mm falls as snow, which covers
the land for long periods. Spring is usually short (April - May) and is
followed by a hot summer lasting until mid-September, with temperatures
reaching 350C in July and August. Autumn is also short -- mid-September to
mid-November.   Rainfall is distributed evenly throughout the growing season
(40 - 50 mm per month), but is insufficient in most years to meet the water
requirements of summer crops. Average precipitation during the summer is
250 mm 1/, as against roughly twice as much potential evapotranspiration.
Evaporation totals about 400 mm. Relative humidity ranges from an average
90% in winter to 60% in summer.
Soils, Topora_p_y and Drainage
3.        In 1961-1965, consultants made a reconnaissance soil survey of the
project area, at an average density of tlhree auger holes per 100 ha and a
depth of 2m.  For the main soil types, field measurements of water infiltra-
1/   It was less thian 185 mm for two years out of 10 during the period of
record.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
tion with cylinders and permeability tests by the auger hole nethod have
also been carried out. Samples taken at 60 cm intervals or at change of
profile were analyzed at the J. Cerni Institute for particle size distribu-
tion, CaCO3, pll, conductivity, exchangeable hydrogen, porosity and field
capacity.
4.        Three soil groupings were identified, corresponding roughly to
classes 2s, 3st and 3sd of the U. S. Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) classifica-
tion. (Class 2s covers 63% of the project area and comprises deep soils
with moderately heavy to heavy texture (clay loams and clays).  Soil reaction
is moderately acid; permeability is moderate.  With fertilizers and irriga-
tion, these soils would be highly productive. Class 3st covers 25% of the
project area and includes soils with a lighter texture (loam and clay loams),
rolling topograplhy with slopes up to 5% and good permeability. Class 3sd
covers 12% of the project area and consists of the low-lying lands along the
Sitnica River, with heavy texture, flat topography and restricted internal
drainage. A detailed land classification of the entire project area (1:2,500,
using United States Bureau of Reclamation land classification specification)
is to be completed by 1971 (paragraph 3.25).
5.        Nearly 60% of the area has slopes of between 0.5%o and 2%, and
about 5,000 ha of these lands would require land leveling. In the south-
eastern part of the North Kosovo PolJe, about 7,000 ha with an undulating
surface and slopes of up to 5% could not be leveled economically and would
therefore be served by sprinkler irrigation.
6.        The groundwater underlying the area is fresh, and the water table
is at a depth of more than 7 m throughout much of the area. The prevalence
of heavy textured soils of low permeability, however, would require construc-
tion of a drainage system to remove excess rain and irrigation water.
Some 10,000 ha of project lands (mostly in meadows), which are presently
subjected to floods from the Sitnica and Lab Rivers, would be protected
from floods by levees to be constructed by the Province (see paragraph 3.19).
Intensive drainage with deep open channels and 12 small drainage pumping
stations would be required along the Sitnica River where black mSeadow soils
cover some 3,500 ha; about 2,000 ha in this area would also require tile
drainage. Additional investigations of drainage requirements on these 3,500
hla would be carried out under the project (paragraph 3.26) to determine the
economic viability of irrigation in this area.
Land Holdings
7.        Agricultural production in the area is carried out by private
farmers, cultivating about 78% of the land, and by large enterprises in
the social sector -- an agro-industrial enterprise (Kombinat Kosmet-Export)
and six Production Cooperatives. All private farms in the area are owner-
operated, with their size limited under a strictly enforced law to 10 ha of
arable land. The average size of private holdings is small, as shown
below:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Size of Holdings    Number of Holdings              Area
(ha)           (No.)          (%)      (ha)            (X)
Up to 2          8,200          69      10,000          38
2 to 5          2,200          19        7,400        27
5 to 8          1,100           9       6,600         24
8 to 10           300           3       3,000         11
11,800         100      27,500        100
8.        Besides being small, farm holdings in the area are fragmented.
While the problem is not serious enough to affect the project's economic
viability, consolidation of holdings would accelerate the introduction of
mechanization. As about 90% of the irrigation network consists of either
buried pipes or sprinklers, the system would not cause further fragmentation
in the area, but some reorganization of farm holdings would be required by the
irrigation and drainage ditches in the project. Existing laws permit the
Provincial Government to introduce land consolidation where it can get the
concurrence of two-thirds of the farmers, but to date there has been no
attempt to consolidate holdings. Under the project the Provincial Government
would introduce a land consolidation program in the irrigated area or at least
adjustment of property boundaries, prior to construction of the irrigation
and drainage networks paragraph 3.24).
Factories and Service Cooperatives
9.        Kombinat Kosmet-Export has some 1,800 employees and owns about
17,000 ha, of which 12,000 ha are in the Ibar-Lepanac system including about
4,100 ha in the project area. The Kombinat owns and operates a dairy factory
(22,000 1/day), a slaughterhouse with cold storage facilities (5,000 ton),
a feed mill (30,000 ton/year), an oil mill for processing sunflower seed
(12,000 ton), and a sugar factory (15,000 tons of sugar per year). About
two-thirds of the produce being processed in purchased under contract from
private farms and Production Cooperatives; the balance is produced on the
Kombinat's land.  Most of the processing facilities are under-utilized at
present. The Kombinat also owns livestock and exports lamb, pork and baby
beef, mainly to Italy and Greece.
10.       Through its service cooperatives, the Kombinat provides private
farmers with farm inputs, machinery services and technical assistance. Inputs
are provided in kind and are interest-free if the loan is repaid on time.
Farmers have no say in the management of the Kombinat's own agricultural
land or of its industrial and other assets. Membership in the service co-
operatives fluctuates from year to year but it usually covers only about one-
quarter of the lands under private ownership. The remaining farmers do not
use purchased farm inputs and are not receiving extension services.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Agricultural Production
11.       At present, cereals are the most important crop, accounting for
nearly 80% of the cultivated land. Sugar beet, sunflower and alfalfa are
also produced, mainly in the social sector, while in the private sector farm-
ers grow vegetables under partial irrigation using the traditional water-
wheels or by pumping from the river. The use of farm machinery, fertilizers
and other purchased inputs is limited mostly to the social sector, where
yields are above average. Traditional farming techniques resulting in low
yields are practiced in most of the private farms. Details on the present
cropping pattern are given in the attached Table 1. The bulk of the produce
from the social sector is marketed, while produce from the private sector is
mainly consumed on the farms.
12.       Livestock production is presently limited to the hill pastures, com-
plemented by grassland areas in the plain. A limited amount of beef fatten-
ing takes place during the summer in the social sector, while on the small
holdings poultry production is popular. Details on livestock in the area are
given in the attached Table 3.
B.   Agricultural Development
Production
13.       Irrigation in the project area would permit a greater cropping in-
tensity along with higher yields and a closer integration of crop and live-
stock production through development of fodder crops. The timing between
crops would be tight, particularly in July, and a strict time schedule in
planting and harvesting would have to be adhered to. The projected cropping
rotation is already being followed by the Kombinat and the Production Coop-
eratives.
14.       The projections of agricultural production shown In Table 2 result
from substantial increases in yields due to irrigation, improved varieties,
increased utilization of farm inputs and an effective extension service.
Yields in the private sector are expected to at least double from their pres-
ent very low levels. The area under cultivation by the Kombinat is expected
to increase as it absorbs all the Production Cooperatives and buys up some
of the less productive private farms.
15.       Seeds, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals should be available
in adequate quantities from existing supply sources for the enterprises of
the social sector, and the latter would make them available to the private
sector (paragraph 3.35). The Provincial Government will ensure that all
farmers in the project area will have access to the necessary credits, farm
inputs and machinery services.
16.       Fodder production would be an important factor in the area following
the introduction of irrigation. For best use of the fodder, livestock develop-
ment would concentrate on cattle, complemented by intensive pork production.
Sheep production would gradually shift to the surrounding hill pastures.
Draught animals (oxen and horses) would progressively be replaced by heavy



A4NEX 8
Page 5
and light equipment. The local dairy herd in the private sector would be
improved by being crossed with pure high-yielding breeds. The authorities
have selected the Friesland, Red Danish and Simmenthal breeds as substitutes
for the local Bushar breed; the Simmenthal in particular would be used because
of its hardy qualities. The social sector's present stock of 1,000 cows
would be increased by the purchase of 5,000 pure bred cows.
17.       The objective in milk production is to obtain 13,000 cows (6,000
in the social sector and 7,000 in the private sector), with a computed
average yield of 3,000 liters per cow per year at full development.
18.       Pig production utilizing grain maize would be on an industrial
basis and confined to the social sector. There is already an intensive pig
production (10,000 head per year); it is expected to reach 40,000 head per
year. Poultry and other farm animals would also continue to be produced by
sm&ll farmers, and their production could easily double.
19.       Most of the marketing operations in the area are handled by the
Kombinat and Production Cooperatives. In addition, a Federal purchasing
agency buys wheat when prices fall below the established floor. Private
farms also sell their surplus vegetable produce in the markets of the
urban centers, where sales are limited to consumers and no middlemen are
allowed. Prices in these municipal markets are determined by factors of
supply and demand.
20.       Yugoslavia has support prices for wheat, sugar beets, sunflower
seed, tobacco and milk. Milk prices include a Federal premium of Din 0.30
per liter as an incentive to increase production. Although meat prices are
fixed at the retail level by each municipality, they are relatively attrac-
tive to the producers since there is no middlemen's margin in the marketing.
A new fund to promote meat production has been created by the Association of
Livestock-producing Enterprises. The Association enters into export contracts
with foreign buyers.
Market Prospects
21.       The main produce to be marketed under the project would be sugar
beets, sunflower seed, wheat, vegetables, beef, pork and milk. All the maize
and fodder production would be consumed in the area by the livestock industry.
With the present 1.2 million population in Kosovo Province, its annual popu-
lation growth rate of 2.8%, the continuous migration from rural to urban
areas and the overall deficit in foodstuffs, there should be no difficulty
in marketing the project's surplus produce at the projected price levels.
The marketing prospects are described in brief below.
22.       Yugoslavia is now importing about 20% of its sugar requirement
and the project's output of sugar beets would therefore contribute to import
substitution. The projected sugar beet production of 125,000 tons (by
comparison, present output in the Province is 86,000 tons) would all be
processed by the existing factory at Pec, thereby permitting it to operate



ANNEX 8
Page 6
at near full capacity. Similarly, sunflower seed production would permit
better utilization of an existing factory in the area. After on-farm wheat
consumption (10,000 tons) is deducted, about 32,000 tons would be available
for sale each year. Since the Province is deficient in wheat production, it
is expected that wheat surpluses from the project would find a ready market.
Unlike the other produce listed above, which would be sold through Kombinat,
vegetables would be sold by farmers in the markets of major towns in the
Province at the projected price levels. There are also good prospects for
trucking vegetables to tourist resorts along the South Adriatic coast.
About 30,000 tons of vegetables out of a total production of 40,000 tons
are expected to reach the market, with no difficulties anticipated in
marketing that amount.
23.       Significant expansion is expected in the production of milk, beef
and pork. Kosovo Province now imports between 5 and 10 million liters of
milk annually and milk production is constrained by lack of fodder. The
availability of low-cost fodder will make milk production financially attract-
ive. It is expected that milk production will go up from 4 million liters
to 40 million liters. Beef production in the project area is expected to in-
crease from the present level of 300 tons (liveweight) annually to 9,300 tons;
it would be mainly high quality baby beef (Jugo beef) for export to European
Economic Community markets. Pork production is expected to increase from
1,000 tons (liveweight) annually to 4,500 tons; most would be exported out-
side the Province since two-thirds of the local population are Moslem and do
not eat pork.
Farm Income
24.       In the evaluation of project benefits for the farms, three typical
farm units were examined: (a) private 1.5 ha farm, (b) private 4.5 ha farm,
and (c) 500 ha farm in the social sector with intensive dairy production. On
the private farms, income was computed without costing management and family
labor, whereas in the social sector all labor and management contributions
were costed. Because of the high labor requirement, it was assumed that the
production of vegetables for commercial sale would be limited to private
farms.
25.       Full agricultural development is expected in 1983.  Net farm
income per ha, after deducting an average water charge of Din 1,100 (US$73)
and making allowance for family subsistence on the private farms, is projected
as follows: Din 2,647 (US$176) on 1.5 ha farms, Din 2,687 (US$179) on 4.5
ha farms, and Din 3,200 (US$213) in the social sector. After allowance is
made for farm consumption, water charges represent about 29% of net cash
income on both the 1.5 ha farm and the 4.5 ha farm. The corresponding
figure in the social sector would be about 26%. Farm budgets for the three
typical farm units at full development are presented in Tables 4, 5, and 6.
26.       The prices used for the farm budgets and the economic rate of
return are those relating to projected prices in the project area in 1979-81.
Prices for wheat, maize-grain, maize-fodder, barley and sunflower have been



ANNEX 8
Page 7
based on projected world market prices, cif South Adriatic Coast plus
transportation cost to the project area. The prices of alfalfa and vetch
rye are based on world prices of feed grains expressed in equivalent feed
units and adjusted for transportation costs. Sugarbeet production, expressed
in sugar equivalent, was priced at cif prices for sugar, U.S. ports. Veg-
etable, milk and pork production will be fully absorbed by the internal
market and current farm-gate prices have been used. In all cases appropriate
adjustments have been made to account for the devaluation ofF the Dinar in
January, 1971.
April 8, 1971



T ABIL 1
PHESEJI? SET RiETU R' S FROM AGRICULTURE
Cropped                             Gross Value    Production    iNet Value        Net Returns from
Area    Yield -        Price     of Production        Costs     of Production       Project Area
(ha)  (ton/ha       (Din/ton) -------------(-DinTa) ----------
Wneat            8,000      2.2         1,200           2,640           1,250          1,390             11.1
M4aize (grain)   Y,000      2.0            85G          1,700             850            850              6.8
Alfalfa            900     4.0             350         1,400            1,150            250              0.2
Vegetables       1,300      7.5            760         5,700            2,100          3,600              4.7
Sunflower        1,300     1.5          1,L50          2,180              950          1,230              1.6
Barley             900     1.6            950          1,520              750            770              0.7
Other            2,600       -            -            1,700              750            950              2.5
TOTAI,    23,000                                                                                   27.6
Income  from Livestock                                                                                    3.8
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                          a
1/  Yields for the main crops represent the weighted average for the social and private sector.
Present yields are as follows:
CroD        Social Sector   Private Sector
-            ton/ha---
XWheat          3.0               1.6
Vlaize          3 5               1.8
Aialf a         4.5               3-.3
April 2, l971



TABLE 2
PROJECTED NET RETURNS AT FULL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT-/
Cropped                              Gross Value    Production       Net Value             Net Returns
Area        Yield      Price       of Production       Costs      of Production        from Project Area
( ha)    ( ton/ha)  (Dinton)    ------------------- (Din/ha) ------------------        (Din millions)
Wheat - Social         ', 400       5.0        1,200           6,000          2,000            ,O000                 17.6
Private        7 000        3.5       1,200           5,200          1.500            2,800                 19.6
1 i It. PO                                                            T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.2
Maize Grain - Social  3,300         7.5          850          6,380           2,200           b,180                  13j.
Private 5 200        6.0          850           5,100          2,000           3,100                  16.1
29.9
Maize Fodder
(Silage) - Social    3,100        35.0          150          5,250           2,200           3,050                   9.5
- Private   5 400       28.0          150           L,200          1,600           2,600                  15.0
23.5
Alfalfa - Social       1,300       13.5          350          I,720           2,700           2,020                   2.6
- Private     2,000       12.0          350           4,200          1,900            2,300                  b.6
3,300                                                                                          72.
Vetch Rye - Social    1,100        30.0          110          3,300           1,500           1,300                   2.0
- Private   1,900       25.0          110           2,750          1,200           1,550                   2.9
3,000
Sugar Beet - Social      800       55.0          160           8,800          3,700           5,100                   4.1
- Private  2 100       45.0          160           7,200          3,300           3,900                   8.2
2,900                                                                                        12.3
Vegetable - Private   2,500        16.0          760         12.160           3,100           8,760                  21.9
Sunflower - Social       400        3.4        1,L50           5,930          1,500           3,530                   1.4
- Private      700       2.8        1,1550          5,060          1,100           2,960                   2.1
1,100
harley - Social          L0OO       li.3         950           5,080          1,700           2,380                   1.0
Total Area        l1,600
Net Return from
Crops                                                                                                  ltr .1
Net Rleturn from
Livestock                                                                                                  1;.1
Total Net Returns                                                                                            155.5
I/    Expected to be attained by 1983
April 5 1971
so0C



ANNEX 8
Page 10
TABLE 3
Present Livestock Population in the Project Area
Kombinat
"Kosmet-   Production      Individu6           l
Export"   Cocoeratives      Farms     Total -
Cattle:
Total                         950          126         19,100       20,200
Milk cows and heifers         628           76          10,700      11,4j0
Pigs:
Total                       9,865          160           3,500 3/   13,500
Sows                        1,072          18             600        1,700
SheeD:
Total                         _             33           7,200       7,200
Ewes                          -             27           5,400       5,400
Horses                             -              -           3,700        3,700
Poultry                                            _         4,000        4h,000
Buffaloes                                         -           2,900       2,900
1/ Rounded to the nearest hundred.
2/ 1969 data. However, present availability in the Kombinat has increased
to 1,000 dairy cows. About 3,500 head are not considered to be fed from
the resources of the project area.
3/ These are kept by the non-Moslem farmers.
April 2, 1971



ANNEX 8
Page 11
TABLE 4
Farm Budget of Typical Private Farm of 1.5 ha
at Full Development
Gross Value
Area       Production          of Production
Tha)         (tons)                 (Din)
Crops
Whent                     0.50          1.7                  2,ol0o
Maize (grain)            0.30           1.8                 1,530
,ugnr beet               0.2()          9.0                 1,440
-.unf LoTTer             0.10           0.3                   1tlsn
VegeLables               0.35           6.0
Fodder Crops I/          0.75            -
Total               2.20                              1(r,010
Livestock
Milk (liters)                         3,000                 L,500
Meat (kkg)                              110                    990
Total                                                  5,490
Totn:L Gross Value of Production                      15,500
Production Costs 2/
Crops                                                       3,260
Li ves ock                                                  1,620
fliscell-nneous (including Water FHund levy)                 1,2(0
Total                                                  6, 080
lIet Income beftore water charge                       9,1h2()
W,qter Charge 3/                                       1, 650_
Net Income                                       7,770
U'J.g equivnlent                                   5i 8
Net Cnsh Income after
dedu-ting farm consumption                     3,970
U$S$ equivnlent                                   $ 265
L/ The production of .JI ha. of rnmize fodder, .11 hn of vetrh-rye and .2 ha of
a'l al' na will be coru3umed by the livestock on the fnrn.
2/ All Inbor requirerrients would be provided by the fnmily and have not been
,/ 61at,er charge based on project-wide nvernge of Din 1 ,100 per ha.
JT/iarrn consumption valued nt around Din 3,80( is based on 600 kg of' wheat,
';(O kg of maize grrnin, 3 Liters of mi]k per day nnd t.he produciton ot' .i ha
of vegetables.
Ai) ri I    1971



A qrq.TNE 8I
?<X.;e I 2
TAlBLE I'
Far_m Buidget of 'typical Private Farri ol   1-; h t
at Full Devel q)ent
Gross Vrllm
Area       Prodi ctioon     of Producti, on
Croorc
lWheat                         1.7           0.(               7,2)
Maize (grain)                  1.6           9.6               8,i6)
I gar beet                      .h          18!)               2 (
Vegetables    /.                             3. I')
Fodder Cro,                                  -
Total                     6.L                            22),678)
Livestock
Milk (liters)                              6,oo,               9,000
Meat (kg)                                  1,130              10,17(
Total                                                    19,170')
Total Gro- Vnlue of Produietion                          398!jo
?rodlnction Costs 2/
Crops                                                          7, 8O
Livestock                                                      7,620
Miscellaneous (including Water Fund levy)                      3,800
Total                                                    19,000
Net [ncome bef re water charges                          2O,8JtO
Water charge 3)4  95o
Net Income                                          L5',890
US$ equivalent                                       1.,0'9
Net cash income after deducting
farm consumption /                               12 ,090
UW, equivalent                                       $ 806
1/  'The production of 1.3 ha of fodder maize, 0.6 ha of vetch rye, 0.7 ha of
alfalfa and the sugar beet tops would be consumed by the livestock oni the farm.
2/  All labor requirements would be provided by the family and have not been costed.
P/   Water charge based on project-wide average of Din 1,100 per ha.
11/  Farm consumption valued at around Din 3,800 is based on 600 kg of wheat,
500 kg of maize grain, 3 liters of milk per day and the production of 0.1 ha of
vegetables.
April 5, 1971



ANNEX 8
Page 13
TA!3LF 6
Farm Rudget of Typical 500 ha Farm
in the Social Sector at Full Development
Gross Value
Area        Production          of Production
Th-a-T-       (tons)               (Din 00O's)
Crops
Wheat                    195            975                 1,170
MnaIze (grnin)           150         1,1.25                   956
Sugar beet                45          2,475                   396
'unflower                 23             85                   123
Barley                    17             73                    69
Fodder Crops 1/          281
Other (by-productF)        -              -                   153
Totnl               711                               2,867
Livestock
Milk (000's liters)                     750                 1,125
Meat (tons)                             157                 1,413
Totl                                                  2,538
Total Gross Value of Production                       5,hO5
Production ',osts 2/
Manngement                                                    240
rr) ps                                                        950
T, ives t;oc k                                              1, 22o
Sub-total                                             P,4l()
(the r Co.s,s                                                       115
Loan                                                               40e0ayent  h 00
Taxes and Duties (includirng Water Fund levy)                       330
Tot1                                                 3, 25,
Net Tncome bef'ore wnter charge                       2,150
Water Chnrge 3/                                          550
Net Income                                      1,600
IJS$ equivalent                              $lo6,667
L/ The production ol l48 ha4 of' maize fodder, 63 ha of vetch-rye and 70 ha
of' alanJlan is consumed by the livestock on the f.irm.
,'/ incL uding labor.
W ataer cha_rge based on rproject-wide average of Din 1,100 per ha.
1'ri I 5, lYll7






ANNEX 9
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
The Power Sector and Use of Gazivode Hydroelectric Plant
Power Sector in Serbia and Kosovo
1.        Generation, transmission and distribution of electric power in
Yugoslavia are the responsibility of a large number of separate enterprises
grouped and coordinated on a regional basis. There are six regional systems
in the country, the largest being the system of the Republic of Serbia and
Kosovo Province, where the Gazivode plant will be located. The 12 generat-
ing enterprises and the enterprise (Elektristok) for high voltage transmission
in Serbia and Kosovo are grouped in ZEPS, the Association of Electricity
Producers of Serbia. Because one of the region's principal natural resources
is large reserves of lignite, Kombinat Kosovo was established to exploit
them, both as a fuel and as raw material on which to base related industries.
The Kombinat is the electric power producer in Kosovo Province which sells
its generation to ZEPS under a long term contract. It is also the enterprise
responsible for the industrial complex at Obilic, which includes mining of
lignite and its use for electric power generation and for production of gas,
coke, fertilizers ahd chemicals. ZEPS and the other similar regional power
associations in the country co-ordinate the development and operation of the
sector in their respective regions. They are integrated in JUGEL, the Union
of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry, within which general policies and
coordination of the power sector are established on a national basis.
2.        In Serbia and Kosovo, ZEPS buys all power generated by the producers'
plants at tariffs established by general agreement every year, and sells it
through Elektristok to the 12 distribution enterprises and to the large indus-
trial consumers at-tariffs that take into account the consumption pattern.
Tariffs paid by ZEPS to the producers are based on sufficient revenues by the
enterprises to cover operating expenses and debt service and to provide a
small proportion of funds for future investments. The present tariffs ZEPS
pays the producers range from Din 0.05 to 0.06/kwh for run-of-river, base-load
plants; Din 0.10 to 0.16/kwh for regulating, peak-load htydro plants; and an
average of Din 0.11/kwh for thermal plant generation. With these tariffs,
the internal generation of funds by the producers covers less than 10%
of their new investments; the remaining 90% is provided from national and
regional funds. It is expected that from 1971 the tariffs will be raised
to produce higher internal generation of funds for investments.



ANN E  9
Page 2
3.        The total installed capacity in the ZEPS system in mid-1970 is
1,991 Mw, of which 865 Mw are hydro and 1,126 Mw thermal.  In addiLion, 900
Mw hydro and 610 Mw thermal are under construction for initial operation
in 1970-73.  'fotal generation in the system in 1969 was 7,149 Gwh and thie
peak load 1,100 Mw.  ZFPS' demand forecasts for its system in 1975 are
about 15,000 Gwh, based on a predicted 12.5% annual rate of increase of
demand, and 2,900 Mw peak load.  The high voltage transmission nietwork
in the ZEPS system includes lines at 38() kv, 220 kv and 110 kv. Elie existing
380 kv lines, from the hydroelectric plant of Djerdap to lBelgrade and  dis,
started operation recently. It is planned to extend these lines to the
Large thermal plants in obrenovac (west of belgrade) and (Obilic, anid Lo the
neighboring regional systems.  As noted, ZEIPS' region has important reserves
of lignite -- the fuel used in most of its thermal plants, particularly in
Obrenovac and Obilic -- and will export electric power to other regions.
Tnis is the case with Kombinat Kosovo's thermal plant in operation (I x 65
Mw, 1 x 125 Mw and 1 x 200 Mw units) and 2 x 200 Mw units under construction,
for initial operation in 1971-72; at least one of its 200 Mw units will
generate primarily for Skopje, the large industrial center in Macedonia.
It is planned to install 3 x 500 Mw additional units in this plant-for initial
operation in 1975-80.
Operation and Use of Gazivode Plant
4.         The proposed 34 Mw Gazivode hydroelectric plant, with an average
annual generation of 95 Gwh which can be regulated daily, would be used princi-
pally for generation of peak power. In event of a disturbance on the power
system serving Kosovo and a general loss of supply, the proposed plant would
also constitute a reliable independent source of direct power supply to Kom-
binat Kosovo's complex at Obilic, adequate to prevent a shutdown of the
important gasification plant and capable of supplying power to start up the
Obilic's thermal plant. Thie uses of Gazivode plant and the benefits associat-
ed with them are analyzed in Annex 10.
5.         As Kombinat Kosovo would benefit by having the Gazivode plant
built as planned, it would enter into an agreement with ILE whereby it
would: (i) build thie 32 km, 110 kv transmission line connecting the proposed
hydroelectric plant to the power system; (ii) operate and naintaia the
plant and be reimbursed by ILE for expenses incurred; and (iii) buy all
power from Cazivode at rates mutually agreed and consistent with the rates
set-by ZEPS for similar types of generation. Kombinat hosovo in turn
would sell any surplus power from Gazivode to ZEPS. It is estimated that
the rate to be paid by Kombinat Kosovo to ILE would be at least Din 0.13/kwh.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations and Sensitivity Analyses
A. Justification of the Whole Project
1.        The basic method employed to evaluate the multipurpose Ibar project
was to estimate its annual costs over a 30-year period and the sum of the
annual benefits accruing to the various components over the same period.
Wherever possible, costs and benefits were calculated to the economy as a
wlhole -- net of taxes and subsidies, though still in financial terms. On
this basis the internal rate of return of thie whole project was estimated
to be 15.6%.  All estimates were in 1971 prices.  The total project costs
and benefits to the various sectors are listed in Table 1. The means by
wuichi benefits in each sector were evaluated are discussed below.
Industrial Water Supply Benefits
2.        Evaluation of the benefits arising from the production of water
for industrial consumption took into account thie fact thlat, in the event
that the proposed Ibar project is not constructed, the industries would con-
tinue to operate their present supplies (Preles weir and Batlava scheme --
see Annex 6) and would construct additional facilities to meet their pro-
jected demanid for water.  Preliminary studies indicate that the alternative
development would proceed as outlined below.
Year                                                   Capital          Annual
Completed          Project Description                     Cost          O&M Cost
- - - Din million - - -
1973       Dam on Drenica River                          132             3.5
Weir, pumping station and treatment
plant on Sitnica River
1973       Palatna dam on Lab River                      138             3.0
I.xpansion of Prugovac pumping station
1973       Pipeline from Prugovac to                      72             2.5
Kosovska Mitrovica
1976       Firaja and Stimje dams, conduits              345             6.0
to Obilic
1983       Dam on Ibar tributary, pipeline to            245             6.0
Kosovska ,litrovica



ANNEX 10
Page> 2
This alternative development, in addition to existing facilLties having an
estimiiated dependable capacity ot 3.0) m3/sec, woul(i provide a total capacity
rougily equivalent to thlat of the proposed Ibar project.
'3.       The iidusLrial sector is assumed to bear tile annual financial
clharges resulting from capital investmcents (funds assumed to be provi(dedl for
30 years at 8%) plus operating and maintenance cosLs, including thlose for
the present supplies (which would cease in 1976 if thie project is con-
structee). 'nTe resulting total annual costs represent minimum annual bene-
fits to industrial water supply from the project.
Domestic Water Supply Benefits
4.        Domestic water supply benefits are estimated as the revenue from
water sales. In the Ibar project, this usual method probably gives conser-
vative estimates. Nornally, the maximnum consumers would be willing to pay
rathier than do without water altogether can be expected to be higher than
the amount they actually pay; it may be higher than usual in this project
because of the unsatisfactory nature of the present water supplies and the
implications for public health.  Public health benefits might also accrue to
parties other than direct consumers of the improved supplies. These bene-
fits likewise would not be revealed by the financial return to the enter-
prise.
Agricultural Benefits
5.        The economic benefits resulting from the Ibar project are esti-
mated by comparing the net farm-gate value of crop production in the project
area under irrigation with the production which would have prevailed without
the project.  The data used to calculate the agricultural benefits listed in
Table I are as follows:
a)   Area under irrigation (ha) I/
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Annual rate    1,500    500   17,000  11,000    --
Cumulative      1,500  2,000   19,000  30,000  30,000
1/   Refers to the area which the farmers are assumed to irrigate.  In 1974
and 1975 some 2,000 ha could be irrigated (depending on available run-
of-river flows in Ibar, most of which would be utilized by industry and
the domestic water supply in Kosovska Mitrovica). From 1976 all irriga-
tion networks would be completed and water stored in the Gazivode reser-
voir would be sufficient to irrigate the entire project area of 30,000
ha. In the first year water is available, the farmers are assumed to
irrigate less than 100% of their land.



AMr4LX 10)
Page   1
b)   Yields
Projected yields lhave been calculated separately for both the
social and private sectors. About 10,000 ria would be cultivateu
by the social sector. TiLis sector cannot increase its output
without trrigation. In the private sector it nias been assumed
that the present low levels of cereal vields would continue to
increase, even without the project, witlh net returns rising at
1.5% per year.
(c) Production Costs
All labor costs were included for Kombinat Kosmet-Export, where
production will be hlighly mechanized. riowever, in the private
sector where much of the production will concentrate on labor in-
tensive vegetable crops, family labor contributions were excluded
from farm production costs.
(d)  Net Benefits
In computing benefits from the project, a 5-year development
period in the social sector and a 7-vear development period
in the private sector has been assumed from the time that
water first becomes available for irrigation. The incremental
net value of production would be as follows:
Din million
Future without project (to be
attained in 1983)                                34.4
Future with project (at full development
in 1983)                                        155.5
Increment due to project                121.1
Power Benefits
6.        As indicated in Annex 9, Cazivode hydroelectric plant, with 34 Mw
installed capacity and 95 Cwh average annual generation, would be inte-
grated in the ZETPS power system. The demand in this system in 1975, when
(Gazivode would start operation, would be about 15,000 Gwh generation and
2,900 Mw peak load.  In addition, ZEPS will export power to other regions
of thie country.  'iThe total installed capacity of the systeni's plants pres-
ently in operation, or under construction to start operation before 1975,
Is 3,500 Mw witti approximately equal thermal and hydro shares.  The Gazivode
plant would, therefore, represent only a marginal increment in the system



AN J LX 10
P'age 4
(less than l% from 1976), well within margins of unlcertainty inlierent in
the forecasts, and it obviously would not be meaningful to analyze its value
in terms of the effects of the plant in the general planning, operation
and economy of the system. however, ttile small size of Gazivode plant in
relation to the system load assures that use will be niade, as planned, of
the daily regulating capacity of the Gazivode/Pridvorica development to op-
erate the plant principally for the generation of peak power. According to
indications from ZEPS, on tlhe basis of its present tariff levels (see Annex
9), the value for the ZEPS system of Cazivode's generation (95 Gwi/year) is
estimated at the rate of Din 0.15 per kwh, or Din 14.3 million (US$1.0 mil-
lion) per year.
7.        Of particular importance would be the role of Gazivode plant as an
independent reserve source of direct power supply to Kombinat Kosovo's in-
dustrial complex at Obilic.  Its important gasification plant, which started
operation recently, will supply gas to the Skopje steel industry, other in-
dustries in Kosovo and Macedonia, and the city of Pristina; from 1975 on-
ward, the plant will produce about 1 billion Nm3 of gas 1/ and 86,000 tons
of asphalt and chemicals per year. It requires a continuous electric power
supply of about 25 Mw; if this supply is interrupted for more than five
minutes, the gasification plant shuts down and its re-start takes one to
two days. This happened twice recently because of disturbances and general
loss of supply on the power system with related shut-downs of the Obilic
thermal plant, which in turn needs an external supply of about 5 Mw to start
up after a shut-down. The Obilic thermal plant, with 790 Mw planned for
operation in 1975 and an additional 3 x 500 14w units in 1975-80, is located
in Kosovo Province at the southern end of the ZEPS system, an area where
there are practically no other generating plants and the power demand is
small but where, as noted, there are abundant lignite reserves. A good part
of the generation will be exported by long 230 kv and 380 kv lines to Mace-
donia (Skopje) and the northern part of Serbia. This situation makes the
Obilic thermal plant rather vulnerable to disturbances on the system; for
instance, trips of the transmission lines connecting the plant to the dis-
tant load centers may cause sudden large dropouts of load in the plant and
reLated plant tripouts due to high frequency.  In such cases, the immediate
availability of direct power supply from Gazivode hiydroelectric plant, with
its inherently quick self-starting characteristic, would be adequate to
prevent shut-downs of the gasification plant and to start up Obilic thermal
units. Because of the importance to the country's economy of the production
of gas and power by the Obilic complex, it can be stated that benefits at-
tributable to the reserve role of Gazivode are important though not suscep-
tible to easy quantification. A small, quantifiable fraction of them would
be the costs of gasification plant components' damages in shut-downs which
1/ IJm3 = cubic meter at normal conditions of pressure (1 atmosphere) and
temperature (150 C).



ANNEX 10
Page 5
would be saved; based on its experience with the two recent tripouts, Kom-
binat Kosovo estimates average annual savings in replacements costs of about
Din 1.2 million (US$Q.1 million). This and the estimated value of Gazivode's
normal generation (Din 14.3 million or US$1.0 million -- paragraph 6 above)
are included in the annual power benefits of about Din 15.5 million (US$1.0
million) used for calculating the rate of return (Table 1).
Sedimentation Control Benefits
8.        Benefits will accrue to the Djerdap Enterprise (tlie hydroelectric
and siiiplock complex oni the Danube) from the reduction in the accumulation
of sediment in the Djerdap reservoir.  A contract exists whereby this down-
stream enterprise would pay a sum of Din 70 million (US$4.7 million) over
the period of the proposed Ibar project construction, with annual payments
to be in the same proportion as annual construction expenditures are to
total construction expenditures. Tue annual equivalent cost thus incurred
by the Djerdap Enterprise (assuming that the capital, payments are financed
over 30 years at 8%) is taken to be a minimum estimate of benefits arising
from sedimentation prevention.
9.         Since sediimientation prevention downstream is an uniavoi(lable by-
product of the Ibar project, the bargaining positioni of the downstrearn enter-
prises would be great enough to ensure that a considerable "consumers  sur--
plus' would be associated with this arrangement.  Furthermore, since the
Djerdap dam is unlikely to be tihe only location downstream of the project to
benefit from prevention of sedimentation, this measure of project benefits
is conservative.
B. Rate of Return of Ibar Project - Sensitivity Analyses
10.       hile costs and benefits of the Ibar project (Table 1) show an in-
ternal rate of return of 15.6%.  the sensitivity of the rate of return to
various alternative assumptions was estimated, with the following results:
Economic Rate
Assumptioln                                     of Return
(%)
1. Project construction costs decreased by 10%                      17.2
2. Net value of agricultural production increased by 10O            16.2
3. Net value of agricultural production decreased by 10%            15.1
4. Industrial water consumption decreased by 10%                    14.5
5. Project construction costs increased by 10%                      14.3
6. One year delay in project completion and 10% increase
in construction costs                                          14.0



AANLX 10
I'age 6
C.  Incremental Rates of Return for Individual 1,lements
lI.        It is possible that a multipurpose project may sliow an acceptable
economic rate of return overall, even though it miglht contain one component
or combination of components that would not be justified if the component's
benefits were to be compared to its incremental cost to the project 1/.  Con-
*queiltly, the costs of the following hypothetical projects were estimated:
(a)  power and industrial water supply only
(b)  power and irrigation only
(c)  industrial water supply and irrigation only
(d) power only
(e) industrial water supply only
(f) irrigation only
Subtracting in turn the cost of these hypothetical projects from total proj-
ect costs provides the incremental costs due to:
(a) irrigation
(b) industrial water supply
(c) power
(d)  industrial water supply plus irrigation
(e)  power plus irrigation
(f) power plus industrial water supply
1.2.       Since the benefits from the domestic water supply and sedimenta-
tioti control components do not require any significant investment besides
that for the Ibar project's three major components, those benefits were
ignored in the review of benefits and incremental costs of the components.
I'lie metlhods of determining incremental costs for the othier components are
(lescribed below.  Thie costs include both capital and recturrent costs, wihile
the benefits are those listed individually in Table 1. A sunmnary of the
rates of return resulting from comparing incremental costs and oenefits for
the various components and combination thereof is in paragraph 20 of tihis
Annex.
13.        It should be pointed out that at the time of appraisal the enigin-
eering studies necessary to produce costs of alternative projects had not
1/   Thle method of analysis used in justifying the various componenlts of
the project does not allocate costs according to the "separaole costs--
remaining benefits" miethod sometiiaes used ini connection withi amulti-
purpose projects.  The present metlhod is felt to involve somtiewhiat less
arbitrariness in thoe cost allocations and nence be Taore useful for
investmenit decision-making.



Page 7
ueen completed by tlhe consultants.  T'hle cost estimates developedl for thlis
report are, tlherefore, approximations only, as are thie resulting incremental
Costs.  Although smaller single-purpose and dual--purpose projects couli be
constructed in less time tlhan thie multipurpose Ibar project, this analysis
is simplific( by not taking such charnges into account in the timting of cost
and benefit streams.  Thle resulting rates of returil are calculated mnerely
to show tlhat the various elemlnents s,iould aot be excludeXd [roml the project,
no other interpretation should be put on tlhem.
T rrigat_ion
14.        A project without irrigation woul(i not require the irrigation  con-
duits, pumping stations and irrigation and drainage networks of the inuLti-
purpose project.  Smaller joint costs (engineering, trainins. adlministration,
operation and maintenance equipment, etc.) that would not occur if irriga-
tion were excluded can be estimated fairly well.  But two large items are
more *lifficult:
a)   'tihe multipurpose conduits serve principally to deliver water
for industry and irrigation.  Ctonduits to serve inclustry onlv
would require some 35% of the capacity of the Proposed multi-
purpose project. Either a smaller canal and tunnel system or a
pressure pipeline following a differeat route, probably buried
to avoid freezing, could be used.  It has been assumed that the
cost of conduits serving industry only would be about 50% of the
cost of the multipurpose conduits.
b)   Gazivode dam would be somewhat smaller if tihe reservoir were
required only for power and industrial water supply.  As thie
volume of water used annually by industrial water supply is some
73% of that constumed by all users, and as thte hydroelectric sta-
tion would reqcuire a fairly large dam to develop the necessary
lhead and storage, it has been assumed that 75,, of the costs of
the proposed Gazivode dam wouldl be required for a project serving
power and industrial water supply only.
[Industrial Ulater S<ply
15.        A project serving power and Irrigation only would differ from the
proposed  lbar project by having less capacity in the conduits presently
designated as 'multipurpose' and by having a smaller dam at Gazivode.  It
llas been assumed that the small conduifts; (with 65%o of tlie capacity of Lthose
f-or Lthe multipurpose scheme) would cost 75% of the multipurpose concluilts
and that thle dam required to serve power and irrigation only would cost (5n,0
of thle proposed Cazivode dam.
Piowe r
10.        'I'lhe incremental costs associated with incluqion of tile power com-
poaeilt are easily Identified and consist maLnly of the lhydroelectric plant



AiME X 10
iage  8
and the transmission line from Gazivode to the existing network.  Th'e Prid-
vorica dam would be 2 in lower, at ani estimated cost saving of 40% of this
facility, if thle compensating basin for daily power regulatioLn were niot re-
quired.  The Gazivode damn and reservoir would be tLie same size for a water
supply and irrigation project as for thle proposed multipurpose pro jecL.
Industrial Water Supply a
17.        A single-purpose hydroelectric schiemie at (,azivode wotld consisL
of a smaller main dam, whiose cost lias beeii assumed at only 40. of Lithat for
the proposed Cazivode dam.  'h'iie Pridvorica damii and all otlher works except
the power station would not be required.  The project costs would lie ab1ouL
30, of those of the multipurpose project.
L'owier and Irrig ation
18.        If the lbar project were designed for water supply purposes only,
the principal. features would be the Gazivode dam and conduits to thle ind s--
trial complexes at Kosovska ,iitrovica and Obilic.  To provide some L).8 m /sec
coLItinuously for industries (which the miiul.tipurpose project would accollmplish)
would Lnean utilizing sonie 65% of the mean flow of tlhe Ibar River.  It hias
beenl assumed that the necessary structure would cost about 70,% of that of
thc proposed Gazivode dam.  Thc conduits required would be the same as tLlose
discuissed in preceding paragraph 14 and lhave been assumed Lo cost 5U)/ of the
cost of the proposed miultipurpose con(luits.  Total costs would include thle
ilinor incremental costs (enginieering, etc.) thaL  are a] so associated wi-th
tlu power and irrigation component.
Iidustrial '!iter Supplyiand Pow ver
1').       A single-purpose irrigation project would ruquire tLle 2ridvorica
dlai.i and intake structure:, coniduits anlid neLworls servlng irrigation users
only, and a much smaller dai.n at Gazivode.  Coniduiits to thle industrial area
of thie irrigation project, witli sonme 65% of thie capacity of tlhose proposed
lor thie multipurpose sclhenm, are assumed Lo cost 75; of the multipurpose
conduiits (as in preceding paragraph 15).  The cost of tihe required Cazivodle
clam iias been assumed to be about 40,' of that for the proposed projecL.
StiirmaLAry
20.        Using, tile methods of incremental cost determination described
above, the rates of return of the incremental costs and benefits of eaci
conoonent and combination of components were estimated as follows:



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Rate of Return for
Increment being        Incremental Costs
Basic Project                       Evaluated              and Benefits
(%)
A.  Power and                      Irrigation                      11.5
Industrial Water Supply
B.  Industrial Water Supply        Power                           14.5
and Irrigation
C.  Power and Irrigation           Industrial Water Supply         68.9
D.  Industrial Water Supply        Power and Irrigation            11.8
E.  Power                          Industrial Water Supply         18.0
and Irrigation
F.  Irrigation                     Industrial Water Supply         34.3
and Power
April 8, 1971



TABLE 1
Economic Costs and Benefits of the Multipurpose Ibar Project
(In 1971 Prices - Din Million)
--------------------Costs  / -------------------    _________________Incremental Benefits-------------___
Industrial   Domestic   Sedimen-
Financed     Financed     Operation &   Total                              Water        Water      tation      Total
Year      By ILE    By Others  /  Maintenance   Costs        Power   Irrigation    Supply        Supply    Control    Benefits
1971         17.7           -                         17.7         -        -            4.9          -          0.1        5.0
1972        129.9          3.5                       133.4         -        -           16.8          -          0.8       17.6
1973        267.1         12.5             -         279.6         -        -           30.4          -          2.5       32.9
1974        320.4         12.6           2.4         335.4         -       1.0          45.6          -          4.5       51.1
1975        249.6         16.9            3.6        270.1         -       2.2          57.6          -          6.2       66.o
1976           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5     11.6          72.2         1.0         6.2      106.5
1977           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5     28.8          78.2         1.0         6.2      129.7
1978           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5     49.5          78.2         1.1         6.2      150.5
1979           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5     69.8          78.2         1.2         6.2      170.9
1980           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5     88.6          78.2         1.3         6.2      189.8
1981           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5    101.5          78.2         1.4         6.2      202.8
1982           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5    112.8          88.9         1.5         6.2      224.9
1983           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5    118.1         100.0         1.6         6.2      241.4
1984           -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5    118.1         106.0         1.7         6.2      247.5
1985-2000      -            -           17.2          17.2       15.5    118.1         106.0         1.8         6.2      247.6
Economic Rate of Return   15.6% (discount rate at which present values of total cost and total benefit streams are equal).
4/  All costs are in economic terms (i.e. net of taxes, subsidies and other transfer payments).  Land costs are allowed for
by reducing the net value of agricultural benefits in the project area by Din 3.0 million annually to account for pro-
duction foregone by the construction of project structures and reservoirs.
4/  Works financed by others include the soil conservation works associated with erosion control (paragraph 3.18), Sitnica  m'
River levees (paragraph 3.19) and the transmission line from the Gazivode hydroelectric station (paragraph 3.20).          oD
HA
00C
April 8, 1971



IBAR-LEPENAC ENTERPRISE
ORGANIZATION CHARTS
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD                                   l                                               I
|           ~~~~GENERALMANAGER                                                 CONSULTING ENGINEERSl
|       ~~ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION                                   |TECHNIrCAL DIVISION                                                 |FINANCIAL DIVISIONl
PERSONNEL                                                        RESEARCH COORDINATION                                                     ACCOUNTING
LAND ACQUISITION                                                 TECHNICAL RECORDS                                                         BUDGETING
PUBLIC RELATIONS
AUXILLIARY STAFF
OPERATING  PERIOD                                                   WORKERS'  COUNCIL
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER
TE~CALDVIINFINANCIAL DIVISION
ADMINISTPATIVE DIVISION      |                                         EHNICAL DIIIN|FNNILDVSO
PERSONNEL
LEGAL SERVICES
PUBLIC RELATIONS
ARCHIVES                                            OPERATIONS BRANCH            MAINTENANCE BRANCH                     ACCOUNTING BRANCH              PLANNING BRANCH
AUXILLIARY STAFF                                                                                                                                                                >
RESERVOIR OPERATIONS        PROJECT STRUCTURES                         ACCOUNTING                     STATISTICS            Z
PUMPING STATIONS            VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                    BUDGETING             Z
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS       TECHNICAL RECORDS                                                                               X
IBRD - 5313(R)






ANNEX 12
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Summary of Financial Principles and Regulations
Eo Fnterprises In Yutoslavia
I.   SuHmmar  _ of Principles and Regulations
1.        The most important form of business organization in Yugoslavia
is the 'Enterprise". The enterprise is independent and has powers to
conduct essentially all transactions necessary to carry on a business.
2.        The "means of production" (fixed assets and working capital) are
"social property"' and therefore cannot be sold to increase the personal
income of the working conmunity, which othierwise possesses certain rights
in relation to the socially-owned means of production managed by it.
3.        The Yugoslav constitution provides that the working organization
(enterprise) has the right to decide on the use of socially-owned means and
their disposal and to employ these means so as to gain the greatest returns
for the working organization and the social community.
4.        The Workers' Council, a body elected by the employees of the
enterprise, has the right, among other tnings, to make decisions about the
distribution of income after payment of costs of operation other than wages
and bonuses, payment of creditors, and payment of taxes.
5.        Essentially the distribution of income is made to cover the
following:
-    obligations towards employees (personal income);
-    obligations towards funds of the enterprise.
6.        The personal income of the employees is subject to the income of
the enterprise after settlement of corntractual and legal obligations. If
the latter cannot be met from the income after depreciation, which is
regarded as part of the operating costs, depreciation funds can be used
for repayment of debt.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
7.        In determining personal income, the Workers' Council normally
takes into account:
-    that the average minimum rate for a given branch of
industiy is maintained;
-    that sufficient funds are provided for "enlarged
reproduction" of the enterprise (funds for plant
expansion);
-    that sufficient funds for maintaining the social
standard of the employees are provided (joint
consumption fund for housing, rest homes, additional
schooling and professional training); and
-    that a reserve fund is established and maintained
for financial contingencies.
8.        In accordance with the relative priority of the various obliga-
tions which have to be met from the income of the enterprise, the Yiigoslav
accounting system recognizes two stages of "profit or loss". However,
these intermediate balances in the calculation are better defined as
surplus or deficit, since in the Yugoslav accounting system the cash flow
concept is more distinctly recognizable that the earnings concept.
9.        The first stage in the calculation determines the balance avail-
able to meet legal and contractural obligations; the second stage determines
the balance available to meet requirements for the funds of the enterprise.
At each stage the inability of the enterprise to provide sufficient income
to meet the requirements constitutes a default, which is considered more
serious in the first stage than in the second stage.
10.       The Yugoslav accounting system recognizes depreciation primarily
as a cost of operations. Accumulated depreciation funds are used mainly
to finance replacement of assets. In case of material changes of price
levels, such as those experienced up to 1965, special laws provide for
revaluation of assets and corresponding adjustments in depreciation. Asset
valuations are currently under review, following January 1971 devaluation of
currency. Repayment of debt from accumulated depreciation is only allowed
in exceptional cases.
II. Conclusions
11.       The financial principles and regulations followed by Yugoslav
enterprises result in a different presentation of financial results than
that common in non-socialist countries. However, the basis of accounting
is the same double-entry system used by business firms in non-socialist
countries.
12.       The Yugoslav system recognizes the need to generate from revenue
sufficient funds to cover all operating expenses (including depreciation)
and to provide funds for debt service and reserves for replacement of
assets and additional investments in the business or in social facilities
for the employees.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
13.       A presentation of financial forecasts for ILE in the form
common in non-socialist countries is not in conflict with Yugoslav finan-
cial practice, even though the format of future actual financial state-
ments for ILE would be different. Covenants for financial performance
can be based on the format used for projections, since the future
actual f'inanclal statements of iLE can be converted into this format
for purposes of sunervision.
April 5, 1971






IBAR - LaEYNA" AiTORPRISE
Sum,mary of Proposed Water and Electricitr iRates
(in Dinars)
11974    1975    197(6    1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
T. Whater Rates
) Agriculture:
Average
rate per ha
per yecr -/  500    1 0001/  533  1  1,000    1,000    1,000    1000o   1,000    1,000    1,000    1,100    1,000
2) Industry:
(per Mn3) 4/     .49     .49      .49        .49      .49       .49      .49       .49       .44       .44      .38       .38
3) Communities:
(per m ) 2       .30     .30      .30        .30      .30       .30       .30      .30       .30       .30       .30      .30
,.atec~s
t;,er lwa,h)        .13      .13     .13        .13       .13      .13       .13       .13      .13       .13       .13       .13
/ In  ddition to these rates all users are charged Din 0.01 per m  which is the Water Fund contribution required by the
Provircial Goverunment.
X/  The diffe-fence between the averagCe rate per ha and the rate actually charged to agricultural users during 1974/78 would
ht  c Cc..r,Cfrt.i 'cV paz-, ents fromn the Provincial Government (see Annex 1li and paragraph 3.37).   The equivalent charge
p2r runit voli&:.z zorq a rate of Din 1,000 per ha is Din 0.32 per m3;  for a rate of Din 1,100 per ha i.t is Din 0.35
pecr m>.
./   In the first year irrigation water is available in an area (2,000 ha assumed in 1974 and 28,000 ha in 1976) the average
rate would be only Din 500 per ha.
,,/  These unit rates are subject to adjust-nent in case of changes in total project cost, or changes in valuation of assets
i  oncr-. timn.   The intention is to charge industry a miniimin total annual amount comensurate with ILE's revenue
recqircm.ent .   The long tern contracts (see paragraph 6.05) would guarantee these total paynents.
April 7, 197l1l






ANNEX 14
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
IBAR PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
INCOtE STATEMENTS
1.   Revenue
(a) Water Sales to Industry
Revenue is based on the rates shown in Annex 13 per
total volume of estimated water consumption of industrial
users as shown in Annex 5. It has further been assumed that
anv shortfalls in water consumption by the two main indus-
trial users (Kombinat Kosovo and Kombinat Trepca) would not
affect the total amount of revenue estimated to be derived
from sales to these industries, since the supply contracts
provide for the guaranteed purchase of a minimum volume of
water annually (paragraph 6.07).
(b) Water Sales to Communities
Revenue is based on the rates shown in Annex 13 per
total volume of estimated water consumption of the communi-
ties.
(c) Water Sales to Amricultural Users
Revenue is generally based on annual charges of Din
1,000 per ha of irrigated land from 1974 to 1983 and Din
1,100 per ha thereafter 1/.  In the initial period of
irrigation the farmers are unlikely to obtain maximum
benefits from irrigation (Annex 10) and are therefore
unlikely to be abl.e to pay the full water charges. ILE
would charge only 50% of the average charges in the first
year but full rates would be charged from the second year.
1/   The water charge would be determined in part by the estimated usage of
water, with the total water charge giving the average values per ha
referred to above. Present practice on the irrigation scheme at Pizren,
which ILE is expected to follow, is to have the water charge for each
area farmed consist of two components: (a) basic charge equal to 80%
of the average charge over the project area (regardless whether or not
the land is actually irrigated); and (b) variable charge based on the
water usage, estimated for each crop grown. As a result each farmer
is billed a different amount per ha for each crop produced.



ANNEX 14
Page  2
As the farmers would not even be able to pay these charges
to ILE, the Provincial Government would agree to pay to ILE
the difference between ILE's water charges and the amount
which the farmers would be able to pay (paragraph 3.37).
Assuming that water charges will be applied to the total
area which can be irrigated, and based on the estimated
ability of the farmers to pay these charges, the water
charges are assumed to be paid in the following manner:
Year of         Paid to         Paid by       Paid by Provin-
Irr:iation          ILE           Farmers       cial Government
Din/ha   V.   Din/ha    %    Din/ha  -
1st            500    100      300      60     200          40
2nd          1,000    100      600      60     400          40
3rd         1,000    100       800      80     200          20
4th          1,000    100      900      90     100          10
5th         1,000    100   1,000    100         -           --
Assuming that 2,000 ha in the Ibar valley can be
irrigated in 1974 and 1975 (irrigation networks for 6,500
ha should be completed for 1974 but water availability is
restricted until the Gazivode reservoir is operating) and
that the remaining 28,000 ha can be irrigated in 1976, the
revenue to be paid to ILE by the farmers and the Provincial
Government is estimated as follows:
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    Total    z
-i.n million Dinars--------------
Payments by
agricul-
tural users   0.6      1.2    10.0    18.6    24.4    27.2         82.0    75
Payments by
Provincial
Government    0.4      0.8      6.0    11.4      5.6      2.8      27.0    25
Total payments
to ILE       1.0      2.0    16.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    109.0   100
(d)  Sales of Electricity
Revenue is based on the rates shown in Annex 13 per
total kwh sold to Kombinat Kosovo.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
2.   Operating Ccoss
Operating costs include the foil1owirng items:
(a)   lectricit  for Pumpln,;g
which has been assumed. to be L2,070,000 kwh per year at
the rate of Din .l8/kzh '     n 2-2 millienz.
(b) Insurance:
which was calculated at diL:fering rates for various tyDes
of fixed assets.  The risks covered are specified by
Yxlgoslav law.  The total cost cf insurance was assumed to
be Din 1I8 million in 1976 
(c)  Maintenance:
which was calculated at the rollo,ing annvial rates:
Power station equipmont-                    1.4
Structural engineering construction         0.5%
The total cost of maiThtenance was assumed to be Din 7.4
million in 1976.
(d) Salaries and WagZes
which were estimated in accordance with the proposed
staffing schedules of TILE. An -ncrease of 10% per year was
assumed to take effect from 1978 onwards, reflecting both
merit increases in minimum staff renumeration and participation
in net income distribution according to Yugoslav laws and
regulations (Annex 12). Total nersonnel costs have been
assumed to be Din 3.8 million in 1976.
(e) Other Expenses:
these are based on estimates by ILE for field allowances, per
(liems, lighting, heating, financial charges other than interest,
office supplies, etc. Total other expenses are estimated to
be Din 1.1 million in 1976.
(f) Other operating and Maintenance Costs:
to account for the anticipated takeover of the Preles weir
by ILE in 1974, additional operating and maintenance costs
of Din 0.8 million ha'te been included in the financial
forecasts.



ANNE'X 14
Page 4
(g) Water Tax:
this item has not been included in the forecasts since it
is a transfer item which does not affect the financial
statements of ILE.
3.   Depreciation
Depreciation is to be charged on a straight-line basis at the
rate of 1.5% for civil works, 2.5% for mechanical equipment, 4.5% for
electrical equipment and 2% for construction overheads. These rates are
adequate.
4.   Interest
Interest has been assumed to be 7-1/4% on the Bank loan and 2-1/21%
on the Banka Kosova loan. During the construction period through December 31,
1975 interest on the Bank loan is capitalized; no interest is paid by ILE on
the Banka Kosova loan until 1976. The Bank loan carries a commitment charge
of 3/4% on the undisbursed portion of the loan.  This charge is included as
part of the amount shown as interest.
5.   Taxes
In the absence of reliable information about the rate and form
of contributions which ILE might have to make to the Provincial Covernment
and municipalities after 1976, no taxes have been deducted from net income.
No contribution to tihe Federal Government is shown because the present tax
is anticipated to be discontinued in 1972.
CAShI FLOW
6.   Loan Disbursements
The rate of disbursements is based on the assumed rate of
progress in the construction schedule.  Allowances for contractor mobili-
zation payments, contract retention money and the estimiated tinme lag
between incurrence of expenditure and actual disbursement have been made.
7.   Contribution for Sedimentation Works
According to thie contract between ILE and thte Djerdap enterprise
the contribution for sedimentation works is going to be made proportionate
to the progress of total work on the Ibar project.
8.   Interest during Construction
Interest was calculated assuming average disbursement of funds
for eacih year allowing for seasonal variation of quarterly disbursements.



ANTlhX 14
Page 5
9.   Amortization of Loans
It was assume(d that the Balnk loan would be for 3() years inciudiln( 6
years of grace and that the lianka Kosova loan would be for 32 years incuid(ing
7 years grace.  Annuity payments calculated according to a semi-annual repay--
ment schedule. were assumed for bothi Inans.
10.  Project Exnenditures
Project expenditures include all costs of the Ibar project
according to the cost estimate.
11. !'!orkinS, Capita.l
Working capital requirements have been assumed to be as follows:
Accounts receivable would be equivalent to I year's agricultural revenue
(due to the irrifgation schedule and the need to collect after the harvest
season) plus 3 months revenue from industrial and community water supply
and power sales (due to a quarterly billing, process).
12. Caslh Balances
No attempt hias been made to allocated cash surpluses to specific
reserves or funds. Cash surpluses are most likely to be used for futitre
expansion of the enterprise except for a relativelv small appropriation
to a joint consumption fund for welfare purposes.
BALANCE, SHEETS
13. Allocation of Assets
Fixed assets have been allocated to the three. sectors --
agriculture, water supply and power - by a percentage allocation of costs
(fOW to agriculture, 32';' to water sunply and 8/ to power) . This al.location
was arrived at bv attributing to each sector the separable cost and a share
of the joint costs.  The slhare of joi.nt costs of (dams and overlheads was
determined on thte basis of the share of water stored.  For multi-purpose
condluitts the required maximum capacity for each sector was used to computte
its share of joint costs.
The estimated benefit of scedimentation works  has been used to
s;eparate an equivalent amount of project costs as a non-depreciable asset
Financed by a contrlbution from the iDjerdap enterprise.
14.  1i',arned SurpluIs
Thais item is siown before distribution of net income to funds
of the enterprise which will be set up i.n accordance with Yugoslav regu-
lations by the Vorker's Council after its establishment at the time of
comnletlon of the construction plhase.
April 8. 1971






IBAR-LEPENAC ENTERPRISE
Estimated Income Statements 1974 - 1985 +
Years Ending December 31,                      1974         1975         1976        1977         1978         1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984         1985
Total water consumption (million m3)                61.2         69.3        235.1        263.9       288.3        302.2        311.8        325.5        340.2       353.2        366.2        379.4
thereof - Agriculture                           4.5          6.3         59.4        77.4         9o.4         95.0         95.0        95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0
- Industry                             56.7        63.0        172.8        183.3        194.3       203.2        212.5        225.9        240.2        252.8       265.4        278.3
- Communities                           -            -           2.9          3.2          3.6         4.o          4.3          4.6          5.0          5.4          5.8         6.i
Electricity Sales (million kwh)                       _           _           95.0         95.0         95.0        95.0         95.0         95.0         95.0        95.0         95.0         95.0
----------------------------------------------------------  (million Dinars) -------__-_---_--_-___-_--__________--__-_____-_____-_-_____
Revenue from sale of.water to:
- Agriculture                                   1.0          2.0        i6.o         30.0         30.0         30.0         30.0         30.0        30.0         30.0         33.0         33. 
- Industry                                     27.7         30.9        84.7         89.8         95.2         99.6        104.1       110.7        105.7        111.2        100.9        105.7
- Communities                                   -            -            0.9         1.0          1.1          1.2          1.3          i.4         1.5          1.6          1.7          1.8
Revenue from sale of electricity                      _           _           12.4         12.4        12.4         12.4         12.4         12.4         12.4        12.4         12.4         12.4
Total Revenue                             28.7         32.9       114.0        133.2        138.7       143.2        147.8        154.5        149.6        155.2       148.0        152.9
Operating Costs:
- Agriculture                                   1.0          1.9          8.8         9.7         12.1         12.5         12.9        13.3         13.7         14.1         14.5         14.9
- Industry and Communities                      1.4          1.7          6.5         6.1          6.3          6.5          6.6         6.8          7.0          7.2          7.5          7.7
- Power                                         -            -            1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9          1.9
- General                                       2.0          2.0          -           -            _            _            _                        - _          _ _
Total Operating Costs                      4.4          5.6        17.2         17.7         20.3         20.9        21.4         22.0         22.6         23.2         23.9         24.5
Leas capitalized expenses                  2.0          2.0         -            -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -
Net Operating Costs                        2.4          3.6        17.2         17.7         20.3         20.9        21.4         22.0         22.6         23.2         23.9         24.5
Depreclation:
- Agriculture                                   -            -            7.1         7.1         10.8         14.4         14.4        i4.4         14.4         14.4         14.4         14.4
- Industry and Communities                      0.3          0.3          7.3         7.4          7.3          7.4          7.3         7.4           7.3         7.4          7.3          7.4
- Power                                        _             _            3.3         3.3          3.3          3.3          3.3         3.3           3.3         3.3          3.3          3.3
Total Depreciation                         0.3          0.3        17.7         17.8         21.4         25.1        25.0         25.1         25.0         25.1         25.0         25.1
Net Operating Income:
- Agriculture                                   -            0.1          0.1        13.2          7.1          3.1          2.7          2.3          1.9         1.5          4.1          3.7
- Industry and Cosmmunities                    26.o         28.9         71.8        77.3         82.7         86.9         91.5         97.9        92.9         98.2         87.8         92.4
- Power                                         _            _            7.2         7.2          7.2          7.2          7.2          7.2         7.2          7.2          7.2          7.2
Net Operating Income                      26.0         29.0        79.1         97.7         97.0         97.2       ioi,4        107.4        102.0        106.9         99.1       103.3
Interest:
Interest (paid)                                19.6         32.9         64.7        66.o         65.3         64.1         62.5         61.1         59.4        57.8         55.9         54.0
Less interest capitalized                      19.6         32.9         22.9          _-                       - _          _                        -            -            _ 
Net Interest                               -            -          41.8         66.o         65.3         64.1         62.5        6i.1         59.4         57.8         55.9         54.o
NET INCOME                          26.0         29.0         37.3         31.7         31.7         33.1        38.9         46.3         42.6         49.1         43.2         49.3
Rate of return on average net fixed assets
in operation (%):
- Agriculture                                    _- _                                   1.6         0.8          0.4          0.3          0.3          0.2         0.2          0.5          0.5
- Water Supply (and communities)                 _            _           15.9        17.2         18.7         20.0         21.4         23.3         22.5        24.2         22.0         23.7
- Power                                                       -            7.0          7.2         7.4          7.7          8.0          B.3          8.6          9.0         9.4          9. 
- Overall                                                     -            5.6          7.0         7.0          7.2          7.6          8.2          8.0          8,5         8.1          8.6
Prior to 1974 ILE would not receive any revenue or incur any expenses for operations.
March 29, 1971



IBR-LEPENEC ENTERPRIS E
Estimated Cash Flow 1971 - 1985
(in million Dinars)
Years Ending 31 December,        1971     1972      1973      1974      1975       1976     1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Operating Incone                             -         -         -        26.0     29,        79.1      97.7      97.0     97.2    101.4    107.4    102.0    106.9          99.1    103.3
Depreciation                                      -        -         -         0.3       0.3      17.7      17.8      21.4     25.1      25.0      25.1      25.0      25.1      25.0      25.1
Internml Cash Generated                      -        -         -        26.3      29.3      96.8    115.5    118.4    122.3    126.4    132.5    127.0    132.0    124.1    128.4
IBRD Loan                                        4.3      54.3    136.3    198.7    228.4         53.0       -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -
Banka Kosova Loan                               25.0    103.0    212.0    227.0    123.0           5.0       -
Liabilities to Contractors                       0.4       7.4       9.0      22.1      8.4      (47.3)      -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Increase in Debt                     29.7    164.7    357.3    447.8       3:9         10.7
Capital Contribution                        1.6       9.3      loB1      22.7     1.0         -         -                   -        -         _         -         _         -         -
Total Sources of Funds              31.3    174.0    375.7    496.8    407.1        107.5    115.5    118.4    122.3    126.4    132.5    127.0    132.0    124.1    128.4
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Debt Service:
Amortization - IBRD Loan                    -         -         -         -        -          -        11.0      11.8     12.6      13.6      14.6      15.7      16.9      18.1     19.4
Amortization - Banka Ilosova Loan                     -         -         -         -         -         -        10.1      20.S     21.1      21.5      22.1      22.5      23.2      23.8
Total Amortization                       _         _         -         -         -         -        11.0      21.9      33.1     34.7      36.1      37.8      39.4      41.3     43.2
Interest - IBRD Loan                        2.1       5.8       9.7      19.6     32.9       47.41    48.7       47.9     47.1      46.1      45.1      44.0      42.8     41.6      40-3
Interest - Banka Kosova Loan                -         _         _         _        -         17,3      17.3      17.4     17.0      16.4      16.0      15.4      15.0     14.3      13.7
Total Interest                           2.1       5.8       9.7      17.6     32.9       6".7      66.O      65.3     64.1      62.5      61.1      59.4      57.8     55.9      54.0
Total Debt Service                     2.1       5.8       9.7     19.6      32.9       64.7      77.0     87.2      97.2      97.2      97.2      97.2     97.2      97.2      97.2
Project Expenditure                             23.8    167.6    361.3    462.3    385.o                -         -        -         -         -         -         -             -         -
Other Capital Expenditures                                           -        30        -          - -           -                                                                 
Total Capital Expenditures            23.8    167.6    361.3    465.3    385.0           -         -        -
Inerease in working capital otber than cash      0.2       -         -        4.9       2.9       4o.3      4.3       1.4       1.0       -         -         -         -
Total Application of Funds          26.1    173.4    371.0    489.8    420.8        105.0      81.3      88.6      98.2     97.2      97.2      97.2      97.2      97.2      97.2
Annual Surplus (deficit)                         5.2       0.6       4.7       7.0    (13.7)       2.5      34.2      29.8     24.1      29.2      35.3      29.8     34.8      26.9      31.2
1/
Cash Balance at end of year                      5.2       5.8      10.5     17.5       3.8        6.3      40.5      70.3     94.4    123.6    158.9    188.7    223.5    250.4    281.6
Debt Service Coverage (internal cash:
debt service)              -         -        -         -         -          -        1.5       1.4       1.3       1.3       1.4      1.3       1.4       1.3       1.3
1/  From 1977 onwarde, cash balances would be substantially reduced by internal financing of additional capital expenditures which have not been included in these estimates in the absence
of definite plans.
M 9
March 29, 1971



IBAR-LEPENAC ENTERPRISE
Estimated Balance Sheets 1971 - 1985
(in ciliori Dinare)
As at 31st December                     1971         1972          1973          1974          1975         1976          1977          1978          1979         1980          1981          1982          1983          1984          1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation:
Agriculture                                     0.5           c.6          o.6         135.9         843.7         860.0         60.0         86.           860.0         860.0        860.0         860.0         880.o         860.0         860.0
Less eccumuleted depreciation -                                _             _           _             -             7.1         14.2          25.0          39.4          53.8          68.2          82.6         97.0         111.4         125.8
0.5          0.6           0.6         135.9        843.7         852.9         845.8         835.0        820.6         806.2         791.8         777.4         763.0         748.6        794.2
water                                           0.3           2.4           o.4         84.6         451.9         461.0        461.0         461.0         461.o         461.0         461.0         461.0        461.0         461.0         461.0
Lens accumulated depreciation                    -             -             -           0.3           0.6           7-9         15.3          22.6          30.0          37.3          44.7          52.0         59.4          66.7          74.1
0.3          0.4           0.4          84.3        451.3         453.1         445.7         438.4        431.0         423.7         416.3         409.0         401.6         394.3         386.9
_ Power                                            -            0.1           0.1          0.1         103.2         105.0        125.7         105.0         105.0         105.0         105.0         105.0        105.0         105.0         105.0
Less accumulated deprec-iatin         n                 -                   -       -                  -             3.3          6.6           9.9          13.2          16.5          19.8          23.1         26.4          29.7          33.0
-           2.1           0.1           0.1        103.2         101.7          98.4          95.1         91.8          88.5          85.2         8o.9           78.6         75.-3         72.0
Tatal Net Fixed Assets in Operation           .8          1.1           1.1         220.3       1,398.2      1,407.7       1,389.9       1,368.5       1,343.4      1,318.4       1,293.3       1,268.3       1,243.2       1,218,2       1,193.1
Work in progress                                   23.5         187.3         539.9         782.6          4.3          _      -             -             -            -             -             -                    -             -            -
Sedinentatian works                                 1.6          10.9          29.3         52.0          70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0         70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0         70.0          70.0
Total Net Fixed Assets                      25.9        199.3         570.3       1,054.9       1,472.5      1,477.7       1,459.9       1,438.5       1,413.4       1,388.4      1,363.3       1,338.3       1,313.2       1,288.2       1,263.1
Current assets other than cash                      0.2           0.2           0.2           5.1          8.o          48.3          52.6          54.0          55.0         55.0          55.0          55.0          55.0          55.0         55.0
Cash  /                                             5.2           5.8          10.5         17.5           3.8           6.3          40.5         70.3           94.4        123.6         158.9         188.7         223.5        250.4         281.6
Total Current Assets                         5.4           6.0         10.7          22.6          11.8          54.6         93.1         124.3         149.4         178.6         213.9        243.7         278.5         305.4         336.6
TOTAL ASSETS                             31.          053          581.0       1,077.5      1,484.3       1,532.3       1,553.0       1,562.8      1,562.8       1,567.0       1,577.2       1,582.0       1,591.7       1,593.6       1,599.7
LTABILITIES
Earned Surplus -                                     _            _                          26.C         55.0          92.3         124.0         155.7         188.8        227.7         274.0         316.6         365.7        408.9          458.2
Contribution fur sedimentation works                1.6          10.9          29.3          52.0         70.0          70.0          70.0         70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0         70.0          70.0
Len-gterm Debt
IBRD loan                                      4.3          58.6        194.9         393.6         622.0         675.0        664.o         652.2         639.6         626.0         611.4         595.7         578.8        560.7         541.3
Banka Kosova                                  25.0         128.0        340.0         567.0         690.0         695.0         695.0        684.9         664.4         643.3         621.8         599.2         577.2         554.o        530.2
Total Long-Tern Debt                        29.3         186.6        534.9         960.6       1,312.0      1,370.(       1,359.0       1,337.1       1,304.0       1,269.3       1,233.2      1,195.4       1,156.0       1,114.7       1,071.5
Liabilities to contrmators                          0.4           7.8          16.8          38.9         47.3                                      -             -                                 -                    -
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        31.         209.3         581.0       1,077.5       1,494.3      1,5.3 3       1,553.0       1,582.8       1,562 8       1,567.0       ;,577.2      1,582.0       1,591.7       1,593.6       1,599.7
Debt:  Equity Ratio                               100:0         100:0         100:0          98:2         96:4          94:6          92:8         90:10         87:13        85 15         82:18         79:21         76:24         73:27         70:30
.rom 1980 onwardn, cash balances could partly be used to finance addilional capital e-pe-ditures which are not included in these estimates.
i  Earned surplus is shown before Aistributiun of net income to funds of the enterprise which will be set up in accordance with Yugonlav regulations by the W-kr-rr' Council
after its establishme-t at the tine of cuepletiun of the construction phase.
March 29, 1971






W   '''''-  \_fi 1HC% ' <   9                                        JXKOSOVO  PROVI NCE
\.YUGOSLAVIA  KFIG"AD .9                                 X       W _(           Cm                                           1    5 2
>:  , R <g9<   ;s,'1,/S:89~~~~~~~~~~I 1 2
<~~~~~~ __IOMTR
g *  V 0  X, * DJAK \ < 3 '-\t <J 2 NOV) _AZ
Xvv sa-v-r\- gXXA0 B XL A    Xv$S>i70- 9- -&AZIVOJ
5EF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MAP 2IC,5RPOET ETlE. < \ q                                                    > \       >          2b   J1
s   INTenNATIONAL bemsDAssE~~~K                   SUVS& , (>    \}//fSj\W    ;tC; _  
=  E NcE Ahz ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IROVUBIC   o                      NAI t < i    .              <O=DwNr7L |E
,,,_   IVENS BVTH EXISTtGn  t a J >9  4 (   e    oz t-hoy- >     s t//    4/  yX ATLAKPE     
3    ~  ~ EEE ERV Ir & AM lNCUDLD  ,L  l k  r O A ,    * l  1 l  v% / g        j   :    ,> :DAM
Aoo._                                                                             URNUStEES)(t~            o///%     5J ve   a
tv EXISTIoG [PRICATION AEESAS f \ . r C XJ > . S |; o3)1 J D D __ _ r, r v 
IE    AR                                                        PROJECT    AE    EA    _   t   C<;   -/  S~~~~~~~~~~~~ r ) 2 lt 4' ; 5 r, __ @ a _ ,, a r 50D ,r l/, <s~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
v1  LPENC EsJEc AE[  T-t4=560  t </ i    3|    S <i   k  Cb ttizu i,                   >  s           rtr9
_ v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI                                                          E l.....WK,W0    'g2   , 1t  t5    
OCT08EK 1970                                                                                                             13RD 3124~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA






AUSTRIA                                                                            UPUT1LE                                                  ArUN                                       APSEY           /      t                                           4S'R
T           HUG=                                                                 O,                                                                    
#~~~~~k                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATAU  AUM,, >
Y U G O S L A V IA 2                                        V  K RO M A NIA                                                                                                       -         E  TT
TULA        AO~               SSsRIsY U G O 5               L A V I A
;'AZUTUCUUA  ~   PRUVU I  U     UA        R     P R          JE          T 
MAJOA CONDUITS
MA U CASJALS
MAIN    DRAINS .
UIRECTION  OF FLOSSW
SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
BURIEU PIPE SYSTEM
OPEN  CANAL  SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
MSAJOA  ROADSU                                                                                                                                                                                               -
RAILROADT
U        I 0 I  A          S       IT
CT,-



