RESTR ICTED
Report No. P-944
FILE  ry
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
May 18, 1971






INTERNATIONAL BANE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPP'ENT
REPORT AMMD RECCMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTJIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YtSOSLAVIA
FOR THE IBAR MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $45.0 million to the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for a multipurpose water project.
2.     The proposed loan would be the fifth lending by the Bank for a
project with a power component in Yugoslavia but the first for water supply
or agriculture. Following completion of a feasibility study and detailed
design of most of the project elements by Yugoslav consultants, a Bank
reconnaissance mission visited the project area in April 1969. FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program missions helped prepare the agricultural component of the
project in September 1969 and January 1970. The project was appraised by
Bank and FAQ/IBRD staff in May/June 1970.
3.     Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1971.  The Yugoslav
delegation was headed by Ifr. Gavra Popovic, Assistant Federal Secretary for
Finance, and included representatives from the Federal Government, the
Government of the Socialist Autonomous Province Kosovo, the Ibar-Lepenac
Enterprise (ILE), and the Bank of Kosovo (Banka Kosova).
PART I - HISTORICAL
4.     Yugoslavia has had an active relationship with the Bank since August
1949, when a mission visited the country in connection with a loan application.
The following October the Bank made its first loan of $2.7 million for timber
processing equipment. By the end of 1970, the Bank had made 16 loans to
Yugoslavia totaling $h75.5 million, making Yugoslavia the Bank's largest
borrower in Europe and the seventh largest overall.  The largest portion,
$415 million, has been lent in the last decade and most of this ($270 mill-
ion) has been for transportation. The railways, which form the backbone
of the transport network, have received $155 million to assist in financing
their modernization and expansion. To help relieve congestion on the
equally important highways, four loans totaling $115 have been made. The
two most important highways, the Central Highlway, which extends 720 miles
from the Austrian to the GJreek border, and the Adriatic Highway, which runs
465 miles along the Dalmatian coast, have both received Bank assistance. In
addition, loans of $60 million for power generation and transmission, and
$40 million for telecommunications have contributed to meeting other in-
frastructure needs. Finally, three industrial loans totaling $45 million have
provided imported equipment for twenty of Yugoslavia's major industrial enter-
prises. The proposed loan is one of four which are expected to be presented
to the Executive Directors before the end of this fiscal year; two are for



- 2 -
tourism, one for roads, and one for the multipurpose Twater and pow*er project.
A list of past loans to Yugoslavia is to be found in Annex I.
5.     Execution of all projects has been satisfactory except for the
second and third railway projects. Progress on the third railway project
(Loan 531-YU) for the construction of the main line from Belgrade to Bar
has been slowed down by cost increases and by engineering delays caused by
unforeseen geological conditions. Potential solutions to these problems
have been discussed at length with representatives of the Governments and
the railways. The authorities are now attempting to resolve the financial
problem by a bond issue to cover increased oosts.
6.     At present, the most urgent problems arise in connection with the
second railwfay project (Loan 395-YU) for the modernization of main lines.
Execution of this project has been delayed by financial, planning, and
technical difficulties which were summarized in my Memorandum to the Exe-
cutive Directors of May 28, 1970 (R70-99).  At that time, and in order to
expedite the execution of the project, the Bank and the Government agreed
on a financing plan for 1970 and the Bank agreed to postpone the closing
date to March 31, 1973. Although all the railway enterprises made profits
last year, cash shortages have persisted, despite serious efforts to improve
the situation. The financing plan for the railways in 1971, which was
received by the Bank in April, provided for substantial rate increases as
well as for the continuation of measures taken in 1970. The main out-
standing issue was the lack of provision for financing past deficits. As a
result of decentralization of governmental responsibilities, the Federal
Governmentls obligation to meet the railwfays' deficits has been transferred
to the Republics and Autonomous Provinces. The latter have not yet been
able to assume this responsibility in full because the division of respon-
sibilities and resources between the Federation and its constituent parts has
not been finally determined. The railways have been particularly affected
by this situation whereas in other fields, such as highways, the respon-
sibility of the Republics and Provinces to provide financing is already
fully established. It is expected that this question will be resolved within
the next few months but it has meanwhile become apparent that the railways
1971 financing plan is inadequate to prevent a further deterioration in
their financial position. This is principally because the latest estimate
of the cost of the modernization program has increased by 30 percent over
the previous estimate, which may have been too low, due to the recent
currency devaluation and to current and forecast domestic price increases.
It now seems probable that the railway enterprises will not make the sub-
stantial profits forecast in the 1971 plan. The accounts payable by the
railways have doubled since May 1970. Suppliers and contractors are now
reluctant to extend further credit and due to the lack of funds, work on
the modernization program and related investments has been interrupted in
some areas. Execution of the project is thus likely to be further delayed
beyond the new closing date. The matter is under continuing review and it
is intended to examine the situation in depth with the assistance of a team
of consultants in the next six months. This detailed examination of the
railways will be followed towards the end of this year by a Bank study of
the Yugoslav transportation sector as a whole.



!_-7'b/  <'~ !/'
-3-
7.     Yugoslavia became a member of IFC in July 1968. Since then, IFC
made a venture capital investment through Fiat of $8 million in the Fiat/
Zavodi Crvena Zastava joint venture (for which the Bank also lent $10 million),
and a $2 million equity commitment to the International Investment Corpora-
tion for Yugoslavia. The latter was formed by 15 Yugoslav and 39 foreign
banks to provide a channel for foreign capital. IFO has too other invest-
ments under consideration.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.     Borrower:                      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiary:                   Preduzece za Izgradnju i Iskoriscavanje
Hidrosistema "tIbar-Lepenac" u Osnivanju
(Ibar-Lepenac Enterprise)
Amount:                        The equivalent in various currencies of
US $45.0 million
Purpose:                       To assist in financing construction works,
equipment and related studies for the
development of the Ibar River for water
supply, irrigation, and power generation
purposes
Amortization:                  In 30 years including a six-year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning Nay 1, 1977 and ending
November 1, 2000
Interest Rate:                 7-1/4 percent per annum
Commitment Charge:             3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Relending Terms:               Bubstantially the same as the terms of
the Bank 'loan
Estimated Economic Return
on the Project:             16 percent
PART III - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
9.    Yugoslavia's adherence to basically socialist economic and social
policies has produced a mixed economy in which social ownership of the in-
frastructure and the means of production in the industrial sector coexists
with a predominantly private agricultural sector occupying about half the
economically active population.  Socialism, however, has been applied in a
realistic and pragmatic way and full employment and equitable income distri-
bution have been given lower priority at least in recent years than rapid
economic growth and increased exports.



ANNiEX I
SU1'RY STATEiINT OF BANK LOANS TO YUGOSLAVIA AS AT APRIL-30, 1971
Amount      (US$ million)
No.      Year    Borrower                   Furpose     Bank        Unrdisbursed
8 loans fully disbursed                200.7
395-YU   19614   Yugoslav Investmaent Bank  Railways     70.0           31.6
504-YU   1967    Yugoslav Iinvestment Bank Industry      10.5             2.0
531-YU   1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank  Railways      50.0           31.2
554-YU   1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank  Industry      16.0             7.1
608-YUT  1969    Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia           Highways     30.0            19.6
654-Yu   1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank  Industry      18.5           11.4
657-YU   1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank  Telecommuni-
cations      40.0            40.0
678-YU   1970    Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia           Highways    140.0            40.0
Total (less cancellations)            475.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                    6o.8
Total now outstanding                 441.7
Amount sold           6.2
of which has
been repaid         4.0                2.2
Total now held by Bank                 412.5
Total undisbursed                                     162.9



- 4 -
10.    Pragmatism and flexibility have, however, not led to the abandonment
of the basic principle of Yugoslav philosophy - decentralization, or, in
Yugoslav terms, self-management. This implies a division of society into
a great number of social, political and economic units, each of which is
responsible for its own management. Its adoption has been the essence of
the change from the early postwar regime which was characterized by a com-
plete centralization of decision-making in the hands of the Federal Govern-
ment, to a decentralized system in which the Federal Government often
plays an unusually small role. One of the most striking political features
of Yugoslavia is the extent to which, as voters, wTorkers or officials,
people participate in decision-making.
11.    Paradoxically, decentralization has also resulted in a new form of
concentration of power in the economic field. The freedom of action of the
enterprises has led to the emergence of a strong managerial class, in which
managers actively seek out opportunities to broaden the scope of their
operations through mergers and acquisitions. AnoUher aspect of economic
concentration is the strong position of the banks, which,partly because there
is no capital market in the western sense of the term, provide long-term
capital for industry and play a significant roLe in investment decisions.
12.    Application of the principle of decentralization has created a number
of difficulties to the effective carrying out of coherent national eccnomic
policies. Thus, after a long period of rapid groifth, Yugoslavia is faced
with a number of major problems. Market forces, for which the Yugoslav
5ystem envisages a majorrole, are partially still weak.  Imperfections such
as immobility of factors of production, price controls, ceilings on interest
rates, and monopolistic tendencies of big enterprises and banks are impedi-
ments.  Income inequalities between regions are larger today than in 1955.
Despite large-scale emigration high unemployment in some regions coexists
with labor shortages in others. Most of the private agricultural sector
is under-developed and has a labor surplus.
13.    Decentralization has sharply reduced the instruments available to
the Federal Government for economic management, especially demand control.
Decision-making powers on important questions, such as external borrowing
and the allocation of investible funds, are to arn increasing extent
exercised by the larger banks.,. Moreover, decentralization has had a
negative effect on total savings which is likely to continue until private
savings have increased sufficiently.
14.    Although the role of planning in resource allocation is small, its
significance in focusing attention on basic problems is great. However,
continued discussion on the extent of transfer of political and economic
responsibilities and on fundamental economic policies has delayed the new
long-term plan, which would otherwise have come into force at the beginning
of 1971.
15.    It is apparent that a balance between decentralization, political as
well as economic, and that degree of coordination at the national level
which is indispensable in modern society, has yet to be found. However, in



the face of the problems noted above, the Yugoslavs continue to exhibit a
spirit of innovation >and seriousness of purpose in attacking these problems
that might be envied by less experimental societies. Operating in a frame-
work uniquely their oln, and with no precedents to guide them, they have
developed a number of innovations in the organization of economic activity.
In the past, when problems became too difficult for existing institutions
to handle, they have been willing to undertake major structural changes.
The current period is again one of change. Within the context of a major
reform of the constitution, all aspects of political and economic life are
being rigorously debated.
Recent Economic Growqth
16.    The Yugoslav economy has had a high average rate of growth over a
long period, although with rather sharp fluctuations. Industry has been the
main force in the development process, growing at over 8 percent per annum
(at constant prices) between 1960 and 1970, while agriculture, particularly
private agriculture, has lagged. The Economic Reform of 1965 was followed
by restrictive monetary and other policies which brought the economy to
near stagnation until the middle of 1968. This was the price paid for the
radical change in the economic structure. Relaxation of the stabilization
measures in mid-1968 once again led to faster growth (over 9 percent in
1969 and about 5 percent in 1970), but at the same time prices and the
deficits in the current account of the balance of payments increased sharply.
Despite vigorous action taken between June and December 1970 to curb prices
and the deficit, devaluation became unavoidable and on January 23, 1971,
the dinar was devalued from 12.5 to 15 to the US dollar. This was the
fourth devaluation since 1948, reducing the dinar to one-thirtieth of its
value at that time.
Resource Allocation and Mobilization
17.    Before the 1965 Economic Reform, the transfer of savings between
regions and sectors was largely effected through Federal institutions. With
the Federal role diminished, capital mobility decreased significantly as
the decentralized economy did not provide adequate mechanisms to overcome
regional compartmentalization. There was a pronounced drop in domestic
savings, from 32.7 percent of GDP in 1965 to 27.2 percent in 1970: the
decrease in public savings caused by the change in the tax structure was
not offset by an increase in savings by enterprises and individuals. On
the other hand, investments were encouraged by the Reform and gross invest-
ment rose slightly from 32 percent of GDP in 1965 to 33 percent in 1970. As
a result, the resource gap, negative in 1965, was equivalent to 2.9 percent
of GDP in 1969 and (partly due to speculative stock build-up) to 5.7 per-
cent in 1970. Although fast growing factor income receipts (mostly workers'
remittances) now finance a large part of this gap (42 percent in 1970), a
problem of domestic resource mobilization is emerging.
Demand 2anagement
18.    The recent inflationary process is a consequence of the structural



- 6 -
changes that have occurred under decentralization rather than short-term
pressures. The most important of these is a marked increase in the propensity
to consume in recent years.  Even when output growth has been sluggish,
the pressure to raise consumption levels has proved irresistible.  The
problem in Yugoslavia (as elsewhere) arises from the desire to combine in-
creasing consumption iwith the high investment necessary to modernize in-
dustry and achieve economic growth.  Thus, long-term policies for the control
of inflation require either a reduction in investment or a substantial im-
provement in savings; for both, central control or even central coordination
is difficult with the present system. The system also lacks adequate tools
for short-term demand control. In the absence of precedents, Yugoslavia
has had to experiment, but so far its experiments have proved only partially
effective. It would seem that Yugoslavia will be compelled to devise addi-
tional means of coordinating, if not controlling, fiscal and incomes
policies.
Regional Development
19.    From the mid-1950ts to the end of the 1960's growth rates varied
considerably between the component Republics and Provinces. Serbia proper
and Macedonia grew fastest (6.3 percent and 6.0 percent annually, respective-
ly), while Bosnia-Hercegovina and Kosovo, both of which are among the lesser-
developed regions, grew at only 4.0 percent and 5.3 percent annually. This
difference is largely the result of differences in population growth rates,
the relative size of the social sector (where income per worker is at about
the same level in all Republics) and the extent of the private agricultural
sector in each region.
Employment
20.    Yugoslav growth strategy has assumed that increases in employment
would take place as a function of overall growth. Realizing that this has
not provided a satisfactory solution, Yugoslav authorities have encouraged
external migration. Over the five years since 1965, employment increased
by only 5.2 percent.  In mid-1970, the number of registered unemployed
(339,000) stood at its highest level of the decade, despite substantial
migration of Yugoslav workers to various vIestern European countries (a total
of 850,000 by 1970). External labor mobility has been, in the last five
years, significantly larger than internal mobility and serious labor
surpluses in some regions of Yugoslavia coexist with shortages in others.
Thus, there is considerable need not only for increased transfers of capital
to labor surplus areas (mainly the lesser-developed regions), but also for
a more labor-intensive type of investment and the encouragement of service
industries, such as tourism, in these areas.
International Economic Relations
21.    Three main factors have influenced the balance of payments in recent
years. First, a deliberate reorientation of trade from the bilateral-agreement
countries to the convertible currency area. Coimmodity exports to this area
rose from 48 percent of the total in 1965 to 63 percent in 1970 and imports
increased from 61 percent to 74 percent. Second, the liberalization of the



- 7 -
foreign trade and foreign exchange regimes, resulting in an actual liberal-
ization of trade to over 80 percent in 1970. Third, the modernization and
increased efficiency of Yugoslav firms which led to greater competitiveness
of Yugoslav goods in Western markets and thus influenced the grow^th of
exports. The net effect of these factors has been to increase the current
account deficit.
22.    In 1970 the deterioration of the balance of payments became the focal
point of economic policy discussions and measures. It reflected difficulty
in reconciling two major objectives of the Economic Reform - the further
decentralization of economic decision-making and the liberalization of
foreign trade with a view to integrating the Yugoslav economy with the
world market. The former produced strong tendencies towards excess demand
while the latter increased the vulnerability of the balance of payments to
such tendencies. Yoreover, the considerable need for modernization of
capital equipment was immediately translated in an upsurge of imports.
While 1970 commodity exports rose by 13 percent, the increase in imports,
partly due to speculative stock accumulation as a result of devaluation
fears, amounted to 33 percent, increasing the trade deficit from $600 million
in 1969 to $1,175 million in 1970. The deterioration in the balance of
payments was, however, mitigated by the sharp rise of workers' remittances
(from $206 million in 1969 to $415 million in 1970) and further improvements
in services.
Development Objectives
23.    At this point the Yugoslav Government does not have clearly defined
and quantified development objectives. The formulation of the 1971-75
Plan has been delayed mainly because decentralization has set in motion
important crosscurrents of opinion on the country's economic goals and on
the division of responsibilities. The following main themes are under dis-
cussion:
(a) constitutional reform, including the Presidency, and the division
of responsibilities between the Federal Government, Republics, and lower-
level socio-political entities:
(b) self-management and its further elaboration within the new con-
stitutional framework;
(c) principles on which the foreign trade, foreign exchange and
protection regimes should be based;
(d) the volume of funds to be provided by developed to developing
regions, and the mechanism by which these funds will be channeled;
(e) fiscal, incomes and price policies;
(f) location of major infrastructure and industrial investments.
The outcome of these discussions will have a direct impact on the strategy
of the new Five-Year Plan and on future economic developments.  The Federal



- 8 -
authorities expect that solutions will be found within the next f e  months
and that the draft Plan will be submitted to Parliament before September
1971. In the meantime, ccnflicts between basic policy objectives must be
resolved.
2h.    Unless countervailing policies are adopted, increased decentralization
will result in a further weakening of demand control. Traditional economic
tools and policies cannot easily be adapted to the Yugoslav system. The
authorities are aware of this and make serious political and intellectual
efforts to find solutions, e.g., attempts to coordinate fiscal policies bet-
ween the Republics and the Federation, and to introduce an incomes policy
based on social agreements between enterprises, trade unions and Republics.
However, the extent of the economic role Left to the Federation as a result
of the forthcoming constitutional reform, will be crucial to future develop-
ments.
25.    Further decentralization could lead to more distortion in resource
allocation. This distortion could result from the absence of capital
rationing based on agreed priorities, market criteria determining the price
of capital, a mechanism to reallocate surplus labor to labor-deficit areas,
or incentives for transfers of capital to the poorer regions. The develop-
ment of a capital market consistent with the Yugoslav system, and the en-
couragement of capital and labor transfers between regions,are requirements
for relieving these distortions.
26.    The decrease in savings is likely to continue.  This trend will
affect the GDP growth rate unless counterbalanced by a more efficient use
of capital. For example, investment in labor- rather than capital-intensive
sectors and activities could be encouraged by an increase in the price of
capital (higher interest rates and reduced capital subsidies). The savings
decline could be arrested, or at least moderated, by tax incentives, an
efficient incomes policy, and better savings incentives and channels.
27.    The size of the feasible import surplus is limited by its effects on
the size and atructure of the external debt, and on the debt service ratio.
To avoid a further aggravation of debt problems, the Yugoslav authorities
will have to keep the growth rate of impcrts, over the medium-run, at a
level slightly lower than that of exports. This would imply either better
management of demand or stricter import ccntrols. Unless there is an im-
provement in the tools of economic management, present trends towards
further foreign trade liberalization may force a choice between a lower GDP
growth rate and further exchange rate adjustments.  The present high growth
rate of factor income receipts, which is expected to continue, and an increase
in direct foreign invest:-.ent-tou1d both contribute to relaxation of the
balance of payments constraint and allow faster overall growth.
Capital Inflows
28.    The major change in the composition of the capital inflow since
1965 (which has averaged about $200 rillion, net, a year) has been the
decline in official loans and their replacement by suppliers' credits. Aid
from official sources fell from about g5 percent of the net inflow in 1965



- 9 -
to 23 percent in 1969. The shift to suppliersI credits as a consequence of
the limited availability of official aid was assisted by measures which
decreased the Federal Government's control of foreign trade and allowed
commercial banks to guarantee loans from abroad without government guarantee.
29.    The role of Eastern European countries in the external aid made avail-
able to Yugoslavia is amall. The principal source of official aid has been
the United States, mainly through agricultural commodity credits. These
credits, which reached about $100 million in 1966, are presently being
repaid: this has resulted in recent years, given the small amount of other
bilateral loans, in a small outflow of capital to bilateral sources.  Inter-
national loans on the other hand constituted a stable inflow. The World
Bank was the major source, contributing 34 percent to the net official
inflow and 11 percent to the total net inflow between 1965 and 1969.
30.    An additional source of private foreign capital became available
through the 1967 law permitting direct investment by foreigners in Yugoslavia.
Initial results were not as successful as Yugoslav authorities hoped and
revisions to the law are under consideration. Agreements totalling some
$45 million in foreign currency contributions were concluded in 1968-69.
31.    For the future, no difficulty is expected in financing the required
capital inflow in non-convertible currencies. New official loans in con-
vertible currencies expected may result in a small gross inflow ($30 million
p.a.) in the medium-term. The gross inflow from multilateral sources should
increase between 1970 and 1976 from a level of about $40 million to about
$80 million. Official sources would then provide, over the period, only
between 10 and 15 percent of the needed gross inflow.
32.    Until now., Yugoslavia has been unable to make an official bond issue on
the world's capital markets,apparently due to unfamiliarity of the marketwith a
unique economy in which Federal powers are diminishing. With modifications in
the law affecting foreign investment now being enacted, and with better know-
ledge by investors of Yugoslavia's internal conditions, direct investment may
increase from its present level to a net inflow of about $50 million p.a. by
1976. On the other hand, Yugoslavia itself exports capital (as export credits)
in an amount which roughly balances the present direct investment inflow.
33.    Suppliers' credits would then have to fill the rising gap. Present
availability of suppliers' credits is high, but the rate of interest has been
rising. However, further rapid increases in the size of the external debt and
of the debt service ratio may eventually begin to affect foreign lenders. Pru-
dent management will be required if the country is to avoid such difficulty
in the future. The debt service ratio on total debt was 17 percent in 1970
and is expected to increase to 20 percent in 1976, but to decline thereafter.
Yugoslavia has favorable growth prospects, particularly for export earnings
from the convertible currency areas, and remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
34.   A report entitled  "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Yugoslavia" (EMA-33a) dated May 14, 1971, is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A basic data sheet is attached.



- 10 -
PAhT IV - THE ROLE OF THE BANK
35.    Yugoslavia's development problems indicate that, in lending for
high priority development projects, the Bank should try:
(a) to support structural refonrs in major sectors of the
economy, and better coordination of develop-
ment;
(b) to accelerate development in the lesser-developed regions,
and
(c)  to alleviate the shortage of convertible foreign exchange,
a major constraint to economic growtuh, by providing a signi-
ficant portion of the required inflow of external capital.
These objectives are consistent with the Bank's efforts in the past and
the political and economic events that have occurred in the intermediate
period have only strengthened their importance.
36.    The trend towards decentralization has considerably weakened the
possibilities for coordination of development.  Even if market forces
became fully operative, there would still be an urgent need for cooperation
in general economic and sectoral policies, especially those concerning
infrastructure.  The Republics and Autonomous Provinces will play a larger
role in the economic decision-making process, and there is some evidence
that they are beginning to cooperate in such fieLds as infrastructure.
The Bank could play a useful role in assisting country-wide coordination
and improving sectoral policies.
37.    It is the Federal Governmentts policy to decrease the economic
differences between the lesser developed regions, which account for 35 per-
cernt of the countryts population, and the more advanced republics. However,
estimates of the capital requirements of the lesser-developed regions are
lacking. The present mechanisms (the Fund for Developing Regions and direct
budgetary allocations) have not been able to transfer sufficient capital
from the richer to the poorer areas. The discussions that are presently
taking place on the draft Five-Year Development Plan (1971-75) and on con-
stitutional changes might draw attention to the problems of the lesser
developed regions, but there is little prospect that the capital flow to
these regions can be substantially increased. Yugoslavia's lack of capital
mobility and the limited powers of the Federal Government contribute to
the problem.
38.    In view of the likelihood that no substantial increase in the flow
of capital from domestic sources to the less developed regions can be
achieved, the Yugoslavs have recently begun to discuss the possibility of
directing foreign capital towards these areas. The regions concerned are
not only short of capital but also of the administrative and professional
capacity to prepare projects. In order to help in this effort the Bank
may have to expend considerable manpower in identifying, preparing and
supervising projects.



39.   The shortage of convertible foreign exchange is still a major
impediment to economic growth and substantial amounts of foreign capital
are needed. For the immediate future there is little prospect that
Yugoslavia will be able to raise the required funds on the world's capital
markets or through bilateral aid. The Bank will therefore remain for the
next few years the major external contributor of long-term capital.
40.   High priority projects in Yugoslavia, especially those designed to
improve infrastructure and accelerate development in the less developed
regions, may have relatively low foreign exchange components due to the
relatively advanced stage of Yugoslav industry and the increasing competi-
tiveness of Yugoslav contractors. Were the Bank to confine its lending
to the foreign exchange costs of these projects, the desirable level of
Bank investment in Yugoslavia could be achieved only by financing projects
of lesser priority or by spreading the lending over a large number of pro-
jects. Scme local currency finanoding is, therefore, justified.
I4.    The Bank could also try to assist Yugoslavia in raising capital fram
other sources. Already, the IFC-supported International Investment Corpo-
ration for Yugoslavia (IICY) has enhanced the prospects for an increased
inflow of private foreign capital.
Future Operations
42.   Given the objectives described  above, lending to Yugoslavia could
be concentrated on infrastructure, export-oriented industry, tourism and
projects in the less-developed regions. The choice of these foci of con-
centration has an element of arbitrariness: the absorptive capacity for
loans is virtually unlimited and in each sector of the economy suitable
projects could be identified without great difficulty. The sectors chosen
have several advantages: they are of crucial importance to future economic
growth and most in need of assistance that goes beyond the provision of
finance.
PART V - THE PROJECT
43.   A report entitled "Appraisal of the Ibar Ilultipurpose WJater Project -
Yugoslavia" (PU-58a) dated April 19, 1971 is attached. (No. 1).
44.   The Province Kosovo in which the proposed project is located is the
least developed region in Yugoslavia with an average per capita income of
about $170 or only one-third the national average. Its population growth
rate of 2.8 percent is double that of the overall national rate and its
main problems are high unemployment and underemployment.  Expansion of
mineral-based industry and increased agricultural production are the main
vehicles for the development of the Province. The further expansion of
the principal industries which have been developed primarily during the
last decade and are concentrated in the Kosovo plain, depends largely on
increased supplies of water. The Provincial Government, therefore, initiat-
ed engineering studies ten years ago to determine the optimum development
of the available water resources. The result of these studies is a master
plan to develop the principal rivers in the region, Ibar and Lepenac, to
provide water for industry, communities, irrigation and power generation.



- 12 -
45.   To implement this naster plan, the Provincial Assembly created in
1967 a new entity, the Ibar-Lepenac Enterprise (ILE). ILE will have all
characteristics of an enterprise under the Yugoslav system of workers'
self-management. However, during the current phase it is being directed
by a General Mahnager appointed by the ProvinLcial Goverrment. During con-
struction, ILE will be directed by a Founders' Council. One-half of the
twelve members of this Council will be nominated by the Provincial Govern-
ment; the other half will be elected by the workers. After completion of
construction, ILE will have a Workers' Council, like every other Yugoslav
enterprise, wzhich will be elected by ILE's workers, and which will in turn
appoint a Board of Directors to set policy to be implemented by the General
I'ianager appointed by the Board.
46.    The proposed Ibar project would be the first phase in the implementa-
tion of the master plan. The second phase, the Lepenac project, which
would provide water mainly for irrigation, is not expected to start before
completion of the Ibar project in 1975. The Ibar project would provide a
water supply of 8.8 m3/sec. to industry and about 0.2 m3/sec. to communi-
ties, together wfith wvater to irrigate 30,000 hectares and generate 95 Gwh
of peak power annually. Its main elements are the construction of two dams,
a 34 111 hydroelectric plant, 147 km of main water conduits, two pumping
stations, irrigation and drainage networks, feeder roads and engineering
services. The total cost of the project is estimated at $93.3 million.
Related project facilities to be implemented without Bank assistance would
cost about $8.9 miillion.
47.   ILE wizlU be responsible for the construction of the project and
operate as an independent utility and a wholesaler of wlater and electricity.
More than 70 percent of its estimated future revenue will be assured by
firm contracts with the main industrial users. ILE will gradually build up
its staff at the time of project completion and be responsible for operation
and maintenance of all project facilities except the hydroelectric plant.
This plant will be operated by Kombinat Kosovo, a big mining and power plant
and the main industrial customer, on the basis of a contract with ILE. Most
of ILE's permanent staff will be used for operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system.
48.    The economic rate of return of the whole Ibar project is estimated.
at about 16 percent. To ensure that implementation of the individual com-
ponents of the project is warranted, the incremental costs of the three
major components (water supply, irrigation and power) and the combinations
thereof were conpared with their benefits.  The analysis indicates that
inclusion of all proJect components, as proposed, is justified since the
rate of return on incremental costs and benefits in all cases is at least
11.5 percent (for the irrigation component) and ranges up to 68 percent
(for industrial water supply). Development of the Ibar river would be the
least costly solution to supplying the industrial demand for water, which
is expected to triple in the next 15 years. The provision of an adequate
and dependable supply of unpolluted water to corDunities would contribute
to improving sanitary conditions and public health in the project area.



- 13 -
49.    The intended irrigation of 30,000 ha. would cause the net value
of agricultural production from the area to rise from about $1.6 million
at present to about $10.4 million at full development in 1983 as a result
of higher cropping intensity and increased yields. The irrigation part
of the project would benefit farmers in both the private (cultivating about
78 percent of the land in the area) and public sectors. It would allow
those private sector farmers, who now support a farm population of about
65,ooo to enter the cash enanomy from subsistence farming and reduce under-
employment in the agricultural sector. Arrangements would be made between
farmers, service cooperatives and the large agricultural kombinat operat-
ing in the region to improve integration of their activities with regard
to supply, processing and marketing of produce. Assurances have been ob-
tained from the Provincial Government that it will implement a program for
the coordination and expansion of agricultural extension services for all
farmers in the project area and take all appropriate measures, including
the provision of the necessary funds, to ensure that these will have access
to credit, farm inputs and farm machinery services.
50.    The Bank loan of $45 million would finance about $38.8 million or
41.5 percent of project costs ($93.3 million) and about $6.2 million for
interest during construction.  Depending on whether local or foreign con-
tractors would carry out the project, the foreign exchange component in
the total project costs could range from 18 to 32 percent. Based on ex-
perience with previous projects, it has been assumed in estimating the
probable foreign exchange component that the largest single civil works
ceontract would be won by a foreign contractor and that Yugoslav contract-
ors would win all other contracts. This would result in a foreign ex-
change component of 25 percent or about $23.0 million. The proposed loan
would cover this $23 million of foreign expenditures, $6.2 million of in-
terest on the Bank loan, and $15.8 million of local currency expenditures.
Financing part of the local currency expenditures is justified for the
reasons given in paragraph 40 above.
51.   ILE's financing requirements for the project construction, which
will not be met by the Bank loan, will be covered by a loan from the Banka
Kosova ($46.3 million), by a grant ($4.6 million) from -the Djerdap enter-
prise for the construction of the Gazivode dam and from internal cash gene-
ration ($7.4 million). The "Federal Fund for Financing Econoric Develop-
ment of Eoonomically Under-developed Republicsand the Socialist Autonomous
Province Kosovo" is expected to be the principal source of funds for the
loan from the Banka Kosova which will also finance any cost overruns-  The
key role of the Federal Fund in domestic economic development is generally
recognized in Yugoslavia. In a period in which the Federal Governnentts
role is being reduced, financing of the Fund is to continue at an increased
rate. DuLring the period 1966-70, a target of 1.85 percent of the Social
Product was to be transferred by the Federal Government as a grant to the
Fund.



- 114 -
The amount actually transferred during 1966-69 amounted to I'D 5,588 million
($372 million equivalent) or about 1.25 percent of the Social Product. The
target for resource transfer through the Fund during 1971-75 has been in-
creased to 1.94 percent of the Social Product but it is now proposed that
this be increasingly done through long-term loans.
52.    Contracts for civil works and for the supply of equipment would be
awarded in accordance mith the Bank's guidelines on international competi-
tive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of equipment would be accorded a mar-
gin of preference for purposes of bid comparison which would be the existing
rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of c.i.f.
costs, whichever is the lower.
I2-1T VI - L3GAL LTSTRU.ITi£S AND AUTHO?LITY
53.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank on the
one hand, and the Province Kosovo and ILE on the other hand, the draft Lend-
ers' Agreement between the Bank and the Banka Kosova, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving t1he proposed loan are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
54.    The draft Loan Agreement contains the Borrower's obligation to enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ILE for the purpose of relending the
proceeds of the loan. The substantive undertakings regarding the carrying
out of the project by ILE are set forth in the Project Agreement which, in
addition, contains the Province Kosovo's obligations to carry out a number
of additiornal works and studies related to the project. The Lender's Agree-
ment contains Banka Kosova's obligation to finance cost overruns as well as
the usual provisions on cooperation and exchange of information between the
Bank and the Banka Kosova as co-lenders. The execution of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the execution of a loan agreement between Banka Kosova and
ILE on the financing of the project cost not covered by the loan, the exe-
cution of a number of long-term power and water supply agreements between
TIE and its industrial customers as well as the employment of engineering
consultants by ILE will be conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
55.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMINDATION
56.    I recommernd that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. AcNamara
Attachments                                  President
May 18, 1971                             by J. Burke Knapp



YUGOSLAVIA                        ANNEY I
BASIC DATA
Area: 256,000 square kilometers
Population: 20.5 million (1970)
Current growth rate: 0.9%
Density per square kilometer: 80
Gross Domestic Product (at 1966 factor cost)               1968       1969      1970
Total (US $ billion)                                     8.4        9.1       9.6
Rate of growth                                           3.3%       9.3%      4.7%
Per capita GNP (US dollars)                              510        575       625
Gross Domestic Product by Branch                                     Percent
1965       1970
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                              23          21
kining and Manufacturing                                       31          32
Construction                                                   10          11
Transport and communications                                    7           8
Trade and Banking                                               9          10
Public services and defense                                    11          10
Other sectors                                                   9           8
Balance of Payments (US $ million)        197c/a    Increase (p.a.) 1966-1970
Commodity exports (f.o.b.)              1,670                10
Commodity imports (c.i.f.)              2,845                17
Net invisibles (including transfers)    805                  25
Current account balance                 - 370
Net capital inflow                        242
Change in reserves (increase = - )        128
Investment and Savings (% of GIlP)                   1969          1965-69 (average)
Gross investment                                    30               32
National savings                                    28               30
Savings gap                                         2                2
Money and Credit                           1970 (Sept.)   Rate of Change (percent)
D billion    1965   1969  1970 (Jan.-Sept.)
Money supply                                  39        + 24  + 12       + 21
Time and restricted deposits                  29        + 11  + 18       +  6
Short-term credit                             62        + 12  + 16       + 12
(Pr oducers                                        0  +  3       +9
Prices (Retail                                          +  6  +  7       + 10
/a   Preliminary



ANNEX II
Page 2
Public Sector Finances                        1970        1969      1970
(D billion)   l=9 6g69-
Budgetary receipts                          27.2      + 12%      + 15%
Budgetary expenditures                      22.3      + 13%      + 15%
Balance                              +  4.9      +  9%      +17%
Extrabudgetary receipts                     29.5      + 20%      + 17do
(including social security funds)
Extrabudgetary expeniditures                33.4      + 19%      + 15%
Balance                              -  3.9      - 12%o     - 5%
Gross Convertible Reserves (US $ million)           1969         1970
(end of yea-r
Total                                              342          280
In months of commodity imports
from the convertible currency area               2.7          1.6
fvlF Position (US $ million)                        December 31, 1970
Quota                                                   207
Drawings outstanding                                     40
Bank Position (US $ million)                        Deceaber 31, 1970
Total loans (less cancellations)                        h75
Repayments                                          53
Total loans outstanding                                 TZ
of which: undisbursed                              174
Total disbursed and outstanding                         24d
of which: to Bank                                  242
to others                                  6
External Debt Position (US $ million)
(in convertible currencies only)
Total debt outstanding on December 31, 1969
(including undisbursed)                               2,268
Estimated debt service payments (1970)                    475
Ratio of debt service to gross foreign
exchange earnings (1970)                                 22
Exchange rate: Before January 23, 1971:
US$.' = D 12.5
D     = 8 US cents
Since January 23, 1971:
US$ 1   D 15.0
D 1   = 6.67 US cents
May 18, 1971



