Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8916-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of June 1990)
Currency Unit           Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1                    DA 8.0
DA 1.                   US$0.125
FISC4L-YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATS               Agent technique de sante (nursing assistant)
BCG               Tuberculosis vaccine
CHU               Centre hospitalier universitaire (Teaching hospital)
CNP               Conseil National de la Planification (Nat. Planning Council)
DPT               Diphteria/Pertussis/Tetanus vaccine
ENA               Ecole nationale d'administration (Training school for
administrators)
EN-EMEDI          (State medical equipment purchasing and maintenance agency)
MCH               Maternal and child health
MIS               Management information system
MOPH              Ministry of Public Health
PHC               Primary Health Care
TD                Training department of MOPH
TS                Technicien de sant6 (nurse)
TSS               Technicien sup6rieur de sante (specialized nurse)
UNFPA             United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
AG\RSH.AR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPU8UC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PILOT PUBUC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Health, Population and Nutrition Data Sheet . ......................................  i
Definitons of Healt, Population and Nutrition Terms ......  ................................ iii
Loan and Project Summary .................                                                           v
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan ...........                                                      vii
I. BACKGROUND ...................................... 
Economic and Social Setting  ...................*.*.*.*.*.*.*...*.*.... I
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR .......................................                                       2
Health Status ..................................... 2
Population Policy and Status .......................................,                       2
Health Serces and Organization .................             .................... 3
Health Sector Finances ..................................... 4
Sector Issues ...................................... 4
Govemment Health Policy and Strategy .....................................   10
The Bank's Role ..................................... 11
Ill. THE PROJECT ..................................... 12
Project Objectives and Summary Description ....................................  12
Project Areas .....................................  12
Project Description ..................................... 13
Improved Management ............                .......................... 13
Training .....................................                                           15
Rehabilitation and Re-equipping of Facilities ...............       ............. 16
Development Services ..................................... 16
[V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .....                      ............. 17
Project Costs .........................................................  17
Proect Financing ........................................................ 17
Project Management and Implementation; Supervision ............................. 18
Procurement ........................................................... 19
Disbursement .........................................................   20
Status of Preparation ..................................................... 20
Special Account ........................................................  21
Accounts and Audits ..................................................... 21
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................  22
Benefits ........................................................                          22
Risks .........................................................                            22
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....                         ........... 23
ANNEXES:
1.      Upper-Middle Income Countries and Regional Trends in Health and Social Indices .24
II.     Reported Communicable diseases and waterbome diseases .25
Ill.  Algeria - Heafth Infrastructure 1988 .26
[v.   Heafth Sector Expenditures and Financing 1980-89 .27
V.  Overview of Health Issues .28
VI. Timetabl by Institution .30
ViI. Technica Assistance .33
VIIIA-C. Project Summary Cost Tables ...........              ........................ 34
IX.     Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements ...................................  39
X.      Evaluation Indicators ................................... 40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Algeria in May 1990. The mission
comprised H. Sederlof (Sr. Operations Officer, mission leader) and R. Castadot (Sr. Population and Health
Specialist). Task Manaaet Hjalte Sederlof (EM2PH), Division Chief Andrew Rogerson (EM2PH);
Director Kemal Dervis (EM2DR); Peer Reviewer: Michael Azefor (AFIPH).



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Health. PoRulation and Nutrition Data Sheet'l
A. General Countrv Data
Year
1.   Population Estimate 1990 (millions)                         25.2       1990
2.   Population Projections (millions)21                         33.3       2000
41.5      2010
52.2      2025
3.   GNP per Capita (US$)31                                     2,360       1988
4.   Urban Population (X of total)4'                                50      1989
5.   Male Literacy Rate51                                          63       1985
6.   Female Literacy Rate5/                                         37      1985
7.   Male Primary School Enrollment31                             105       1986
8.   Female Primary School Enrollment31                            85       1986
9.   Area (Km2 in OO0)31                                        2,382       1990
10.   Population Density (per Km2)                                10.5       1990
11.   Babies with low birth weight (Z)MI                              9      1985
12.   Daily calorie supply per capita5l                          2,715       1986
B. Populatioel/
1.   Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)4i                              34.3       1989
2.   Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)4'                               6.7       1989
3.   Rate of Population Growth (X)4/                              2.7       1989
4.   Rate of Natural Increasa (X)4/                               2.7       1989
5.   Total Fertility Rate                                         5.2       1989
6.   Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                              69      1989
7.   Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                            64.5       1989
', Unless otherwise indicated, are World Bank estimates.
2/ Bank projections, 1990-91 where Net Reproduction Rate (NRR) - 1 in
2020.
3/ World Bank: WDR 1989.
4/ Algeria: Office National des Statistiques.
*/ UNICEF: The State of the WORLD's Children, 1990, Oxford University
Press, 1989



- ii -
8.   Population Age Structure (X)
0-14 years                                                    45       1989
15-64 years                                                   52       1989
65+  years                                                     3       1989
9.   Dependency ratio3/                                             90      1989
10.   Women in Childbearing age
(15-49 years of age as Z total population)                    23       1989
As X of all women                                             46       1989
11.   X of Women of Childbearing Age Using Contraception             35      1989
12.   Maternal Mortality (per 100,000)5'                            129      1980
C. Health Sector Resources6"
1.    Doctors per Population1/                                 1:2,330       1988
2.    Nurses per Population61                                     1:330      1988
3.    Hospital Beds per Population61                             1:380       1988
4.    Basic Health Units61                                        2,720      1988
5.    Health Centers6l                                           1,650
6.    University Hospitals                                           13      1988
7.    General Hospitals                                             178      1988
8.    Special Hospitals                                              18      1988
9.    Governmental Expenditure on Health as X of GDP               4.5       1989
10.   Total Expenditure on Health as X of Cr                        5.4      1989
D. Hospital Utilization6I
1.    Average Occupancy Rate (X)                                     55      1988
2.    Average Length of Stay (days)                                   6      1988
§/ Ministry of Public Health: Plan d'Action du Secteur de la Sante.



- iii -
DEFINITIONS OF HEALTH. POPULATION AND NUTRITION TERMS
Adult Literacy Rate             The percentage of persons aged 15 and over who
can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate           Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1,000
children in the same age group.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate  The percentage of married women of reproductive
age who are using a modern method of
contraceptive at any time.
Crude Birth Rate               Number of live births per year per 1,000
people.
Crude Death Rate               Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio                Population 14 years or under and 65 years or
over as percentage of population aged 15 to 64
years.
Incidence Rate                 The number of persons contracting a disease as
a proportion of the population at risk, per
unit of time; usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate          Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per 1,000
live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth       The number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the age-specific mortality rates
prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)          Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 gr. LBW
may be associated with either pre-term (less
than 37 weeks gestation) or full-term but
small-for-dates (38 weeks or more) of
gestation.
Maternal Mortality Rate        Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth or post-partum.
Morbidity                      The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Mortality                      The frequency of death in a population.



- iv -
Prevalence Rate                The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per population
at risk; usually expressed per 1,000 persons
per year.
Rate of Natural Increase        Diffarence between crude birth and crude death
rates; usually expressed as a percentage.
Total Fertility Rate           The average number of children a women will
have if she experiences a given set of age-
specific fertility rates throughout her
lifetime.



av 
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APDAISAL REPOQR
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
BORROWER:       Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
BENEFICIARIES:  Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), wilaya (governorate) of
Algiers, and wilaya of Medea
AMOUNT:         US$16.0 million equivalent
TERMS:          Repayable in 17 years, including a five year grace period, at
tl.e standard variable interest rate.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVES:     The proposed project would help improve productivity and
efficiency in the Algerian health care delivery system. It
would introduce, on a pilot basis and in a limited area,
management tools that will allow the Government to implement
changes in the management and operations of the health system
at central and local levels. These management tools would
subsequently be extended nationwide. The pilot area would
include the teaching hospital (CHU) and adjacent urban health
district of Bab el Oued in Algiers, and the rural wilaya of
Medea.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:    The project would:
(a) improve resource management through the introduction of
health management and information systems for (i) financial
reporting and cost accounting, (ii) patient administration,
(iii) service and personnel performance evaluation, and (iv)
building, medical and non-medical maintenance; complemented
by pre- and in-service training programs for managers and
support staff;
(b) improve quality of services by (i) raising professional
skills of public health sector personnel through stronger
pre- and in-service training, and (ii) strengthening
professional communication between health personnel at
different levels;
(c) improve the utilization of project area facilities
through upgrading of their diagnostic and emergency handling
capabilities and rehabilitation of basic systems such as



- vi -
electricity and water supply; and through the development of
a masterplan for the teaching hospital of Bab el Oued; and
(d) strengthen strategic planning and management in MOPH,
including its capabilities to closely monitor and evaluate
project results for eventual replication at national levels.
BENEFITS:       The proposed project will directly address major short-and
medium-term problems in the sector. It will provide the
Government with replicable models for efficient health
management that gradually should improve the delivery of
health services nationwide at all levels of the health
system. In time, given the high degree of availability of
health services in Algeria, better management is expected to
have a significant beneficial impact on health status among
all age groups of the population.
RISKS:          The main risks of the project relate to successful exercise
of increased responsibility in the project areds and to the
ability to adapt practice in the light of experience.
However, already the Government has implemented important
measures for better overall system performance. The limited
experience and skills of local manage.-s in exercising
authority and responsibility is recognized in the project,
and training and technical assistance provided under the
project are designed to enhance their ability to use
effectively the management tools that the project will
develop.



- vii -
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Project Coats
US$ million
.. . .......... ...........................v, 
Local    Foreign      Total
Management                        0.1         0,8         0.9
Human resource development         0.3        0.3         0.6
Rehabilitation                    4.8         6.2         11.0
Maintenance                        0.5         3.3         3.7
Progress monitoring               0.1         0.0         0.1
Development Services              2.4         4.8         7.2
Total BASELINE COSTS              8.0        15.3        23.4
Physical Contingencies          0.5         1.2         1.6
Price contingencies             0.5         1.2         1.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 7/            9.1        17.6        26.7
Financing Pla
IBRD                              0.0        16.0        16.0
Government                        9.1         1.6        10.7
Total                   9.1       17.6        26.7
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IBRD FY                            22     93      94      95
Annual                            1.9   6.5    5.6       1.7    0.3
Cumulative                        1.9   8.4   14.0    15.7    16.0
Economic Rate of Return: NA
7/ Including US$ 0.7 million in indirect taxes and duties.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR RERUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Economic and Social Setting
1.01.     During the 1980s and in particular since the sharp downturn in oil
prices in 1986, Algeria has been engaged in a program of broad economic reform
to increase efficiency in resource use, as declining export revenues have
brought to the fore inefficiencies in the economy that went undetected when
resources were more abundant. The Government is aiming to bring about a
transformation in economic decision-making and resource allocation by moving
away from rigid central planning with distorted incentive structures, lack of
tight policy management and excessive constraints on resource use at
operational levels, and give increasing importance to market forces. This will
require basic and comprehensive change in the legislative, institutional and
incentives structure of the economy. The process has already been launched in
the agricultural sector, followed by a wide range of policy initiatives in the
public enterprise and banking sectors, in price setting and in related
incentive systems. In turn, the social sectors are beginning to search for
more productive and efficient use of the resources at their disposal. Their
ability to do so successfully will be critical if they are to respond
efficiently o. the needs of the economic environment.



II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Status
2.01.     While there has been considerable improvement in the health of the
Algetian population over the past 20 years, health status as reflected in a
life expectancy at birth of 64 years and in an infant mortality rate of 69 per
1,000 live births, remains low when compared to countries with similar per
capita GDP and population size (weighted averages of 71 and 30, respectively;
see Annex I). While chronic and degenerative diseases and injuries among
adults are on the rise, reflecting health risk changes associated with
industrialization, the urbanization process and aging, preventable
communicable diseases continue to take a high toll in morbidity and mortality,
and infants and children under age five still account for half of all deaths.
Among communicable diseases, the prevalence of waterborne diseases (cholera,
typhoid fever, hepatitis and dysentery) remair.- high among all age groups
(Annex II). Population growth, averaging 3.11 over the 1977-87 decade, has
been in decline in recent years as a result of a gradual increase in the age
of marriage and of other socio-economic factors, especially urbanization (now
501) and housing shortages in urban areas, and increased availability of
contraceptive services. It is estimated at 2.7X for 1989. Chronic
malnutrition is rare (less than 1X) in Algeria, where the daily calory supply
per capita is equal to 121% of requirements. However, acute malnutrition,
following diarrhea or acute infection, is prevalent, affecting mostly infants
and children under age three.
Population Policy and Status
2.02      From 1962 to 1979 the Algerian Government rejected the very notion
of acting to moderate overall population growth, while it allowed family
planning services for health reasons. The belief was that accelerated
development would improve standards of living, educational levels and health
status, and that demographic transition would spontaneously occur. It was not
until 1980, following an economic and social assessment of the 1967-1978
decade, that a new policy to control population growth was adopted in the 1980
Plan. In 1983, the Government introduced a program to: i) develop the
infrastructure and organization in Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to provide
birth control services, ii) inform and educate the population, and iii) do
research into the factors of population growth and their relationship to
social and economic development in order to define appropriate population
policies.
2.03.     By 1986, in the absence of significant progress with this first
program, a National Committee on Population was created and a charter
emphasizing the need for balance between population and development was
issued. The Government decided to accelerate the implementation of a broader
action program in population.
2.04.     A US$8 million UNFPA program launched in 1989 is providing
assistance to: i) strengthen maternal and child health/family planning,



including support to create a center to produce oral contraceptives, ii)
develop an information, education and communication program directed toward
the general population, and various sub-groups, iii) support demography
training at Oran University, iv) support population data collection and
analysis at the National Office of Statistics and at the Center for Applied
Economic Research for Development, v) prepare a population policy, and vi)
develop programs aimed at promoting the role of women. The Bank has also
advised the Algerian authorities on population strategies and related
expenditure priorities.
Health Services and Organization
2.05.     At Independence in 1962, the Algerian health system consisted of
some 300 physicians (1 per 33,000 population) and 250 trained para-medical
staff (1 per 40,000 population). They mainly worked in a few urban hospitals
and some rural health facilities. Practice was essentially curative, and the
largely rural population had limited access to health services. While disease
data from that time is scarce, it is likely that the most common causes of
morbidity and mortality were similar to those in other developing countries,
i.e. communicable diseases, respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases and
maternal and perinatal complications.
2.06.     Since that time, the system has experienced considerable expansion,
especially in the early 1980s, fueled by social justice considerations and
abundant public resources at its disposal. It now numbers over 20,000 doctors
(1 per 1,200 population) and 60,000 para-medical staff (1 per 400 population),
and 90% of the population have access to health and medical services. Only
some remote rural populations remain under-served. The bulk of health and
medical services, curative as well as preventive, are provided by the public
sector through a network of hospitals and lower level ambulatory facilities
that are grouped into health districts (Annex III). The typical health
district consists of a general hospital that serves as a referral facility for
one or more urban and rural maternities and ambulatory facilities (polyclinics
and health centers, often incorporating maternal and child health care
facilities, and dispensaries). It is complemented by a network of autonomous
tertiary facilities (specialized clinics and teaching hospitals) and private
practitioners (some 20% of Algerian doctors are in private practice). The
health system is supported by three regional public pharmaceutical purchasing
and wholesale distribution enterprises, a public enterprise for the
importation and maintenance of medical equipment (EN-EMEDI), two medical
research institutes (Institut National de Sante Publique, Institut Pasteur
d'Algerie), and pharmaceutical production units that formulate a limited
number of drugs and produce serums, vaccines and blood derivatives.
2.07.     Health sector development takes place in the framework of five-
year plans that define overall otjectives and strategies. These plans, which
are drawn up as a collaborative effort between the MOPH and the Conseil
National de Planification (CNP), are based on population/service ratio
guidelines that are used in the absence of sufficient epidemiological
information to base planning on well-defined health care needs of the
population. Local investment programs are implemented on the basis of annual



development plans that are proposed by the provincial government (wilaya) and
approved and funded by the central level. Operating resources are distributed
by the central level to specialized and teaching hospitals and health
districts in the form of global line-item budgets that provide little scope
for independent budget management. They are predicated on prior years'
allocations.
Health Sector Finances
2.08.     The expansion of health services has been accompanied by strong
growth in spending on health care, as outlays have increased at an annual
average rate of 14X over the past decade, outpacing overall GDP growth. It is
estimated that 5.41 of GDP is currently spent on health, a somewhat higher
proportion than could be expected from a country of Algeria's per capita
income (5.2X for comparable upper middle-income developing countries; 7.2X for
the lower-income OECD countries). The bulk of outlays are for salaries (i.e.
some 70X) and, while the distribution of funds by level of care is far from
transparent, it seems that most are spent on acute in-patient care, especially
in expensive teaching hospitals. Most health and medical care has been
provided without charge in the public sector since 1975, when national health
insurance with universal coverage was introduced. Patient fees are collected
in hospitals from certain patient categories and for certain diagnostic
services, but fees are returned to the Treasury. Overall funding is provided
by three major sources -- the state budget (201), employer and employee
contributions to the social security system (601), and households (201)
(Annex IV). Over the years, the state budget share has declined, from a 291
share in 1980 to its present level; the slack has been taken up by the social
security system. Hospitals and health districts operate on prospective global
budgets, while private practitioners are reimbursed on a fee for service basis
by social security. Until recently, all new investments in the sector were
funded by the social security system, but beginning in 1988, the state budget
is financing new investments.
Sector Issues
2.09.     So far, one major theme has guided development of the Algerian
health system -- access. It has been pursued in an environment of abundant
public resources, and it has been given expression in strong and sustained
expansion of the public health infrastructure and in the introduction of the
principle of "free" health and medical care for all. With service expansion
(access) by and large achieved, the health sector now will need to shift its
focus to the quality of care and to better use of existing resources: (i) past
investments are not producing the anticipated results, as major health
indicators lag (see para. 2.01 above); (ii) pressures to increase health
spending can be expected to intensify in the future as demand for health care
and health care costs rise with the effects of rising incomes, continued
urbanization, demographic and epidemiological changes, and advances in medical
technology; while at the same time, (iii) the scope for growth in public
spending on health services will be constrained by continued fiscal austerity.



2.10.     Central themes for medium term health policy will therefore be to
improve quality and efficiency in service delivery, and to provide for
adequate financing of health care. In this context, there are a number of
important issues that will need to be addressed.
2.11.     Relevance of the health system.  While the Algerian health system
arguably presents a well-designed hierarchy of services, it also has a strong
bias in favor of the provision of relatively sophisticated care in a high
technology clinical environment which is not yet suited to the epidemiological
situation of the country. Thirteen teaching hospitals absorb the bulk of
resources and promote expensive technology-intensive care. They set a tone
for manpower training and medical practice that is similar to the pattern of
care prevailing in many industrialized countries, but not necessarily in
accordance with the health care needs of most Algerians. While chronic and
degenerative disease, related to aging and urban lifestyles, unquestionably is
on the rise, much illness in the country, as shown by the percentage
distribution of all deaths occuring among children under five (50X), still is
treatable through early interventions in lower-cost facilities or preventable
through appropriate public health programs and information campaigns.
2.12.     In addition, the Algerian health system shows a strong pattern of
unnecessary referrals from reasonably well-distributed and well-staffed
ambulatory facilities to higher levels, especially teaching hospitals, and
correspondingly, overextended hospital services that spend a large amount of
high-cost resources on patients with primary complaints that could be treated
as effectively and less expensively at lower levels. One major reason for this
can be found in the medical education, where the emphasis is placed on the
transmission of technical knowledge, rather than the development of
appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic skills. Consequently, Algerian doctors
do not always appear to practice comfortably outside the teaching hospital
system, where they may not have recourse to the technologies present in
teaching hospitals. Their referrals significantly contribute to patients'
inconvenience, duplication of tests and increased cost. The pressure on
hospitals is reinforced as people perceive the primary care network as failing
to provide essential care.
2.13.     This overall situation is exacerbated by the relative inadequacy of
communication between general practitioners and physicians in a public health
setting on the one hand, and specialist hospital physicians on the other hand.
While informal referral networks do exist, there is no formal institutional
relationship that ensures systematic linkages and referral patterns between
different levels of care.
2.14.     Major tasks for the Algerian public health system in coming years
will be the development of cost effective institutions and programs for health
promotion and disease prevention, and strengthening the reputation and
credibility of primary service levels. Teaching hospitals will always offer
somewhat different treatment protocols than non-teaching facilities because of
differences in disease severity, research trials, innovative techniques and,
sometimes, better quality of care. Therefore, peripheral health services must
become more closely linked with higher level, essentially hospital services
for necessary support and on-the-job training that will allow the physicians



- 6 -
(and para-medical staff) in the periphery to become more comfortable in the
provision of essential care and increase their credibility in the eyes of the
population. It will in particular be useful to provide the general
practitioner with in-depth knowledge in the management of the most frequent
illnesses and their prevention, and with heavier doses of social medicine,
epidemiology, health care management and statistics.
2.15.     Health Sector Mana8ement and Staff Incentives.  Until recently,
strategic as well as most operational management and planning functions were
centralized in the MOPH, although the Government is gradually delegating more
management responsibility to the wilayate and the communes (para. 2.30). For
the time being, local managers administer resources within a strict regulatory
framework with only limited scope for initiative in the application of
resources. Delegation of management responsibility is nonetheless an essential
feature of productive performance and the key to developing a more flexible,
responsive and modern public health system -- local health authorities and
facility managers usually know best what problems they face, and they need to
be able to decide how to use their resources to meet them.
2.16.     Decentralization needs to go hand in hand with the development and
application of modern management practices at all levels of the system in
order to extract the most and best services from limited resources. A wide
range of management skills and systems will be required at various levels of
the health pyramid, and to achieve this, a major initiative in human resource
development -- management training and systems design -- will be needed.
Curiously, while Algeria has been able to adopt modern clinical practices
rapidly, few modern management techniques have been incorporated into the
public health sector. For a long time, managers were career physicians with
little interest in management, subsequently replaced by non-physician
administrators recruited from the local school of public administration, ENA,
where the emphasis is on administrative process rather than on modern
management techniques. It is only recently, prompted by efficiency concerns,
that the MOPH has begun to develop a specific health maragement school with
outside assistance, which should improve the skills level of health managers
in the future.
2.17.     Equally important is the availability of accurate and timely
management information to guide decision-making. While much data is collected
in the Algerian system, there is a dearth of information on inputs, outputs,
costs and performance. In the limited cases where data is processed and
analyzed, information flows and feedback are insufficient and resource use too
constrained to allow adequate planning or management of activities at any
level of the system. Nonetheless, some independent local initiatives have made
progress in developing cost accounting systems for managers at the wilaya and
hospital levels, but again too much central control over the allocation of
available resources has stymied the use of such systems in decision-making.
In any case, a great deal more work needs to be done to develop information
systems on both cost and performance that will provide managers at all levels
with the information they need in the form that they need it. This will
require investments in experimenting with different tools, in purchasing
equipment and in developing the specialized management and information skills,



- 7 -
and in training. And it will require a greater degree of delegation of
authority and responsibility in management.
2.18.     A fourth crucial element for improving efficiency is the
introduction of performance motivation in its various dimensions -- incentive
programs, sanctions, career possibilities, hierarchical structures. Health is
a manpower-intensive delivery system with over two-thirds of national health
expenditures going to wages and salaries. This manpower must be encouraged to
perform and achieve if the system is to work well. The means to achieving a
more productive work force are not primarily normative and regulatory, but
rather consist of motivation and incentives. Without those ingredients, which
should apply to medical and non-medical personnel as well as managers, it will
be difficult to draw the full benefits of good training, management tools and
planning capabilities. So far, the Algerian system has not given sufficient
emphasis to them. To inject them, merit will need to be recognized and good
performance rewarded, accountability will have to be introduced and, as
natural corollaries, authority and responsibility -- managers must be able to
manage their resources, and in order to be accountable they must have
authority. This will require the development of career streams, which are
presently lacking for medical and para-medical staff. It is a remarkable
feature of the Algerian system that senior medical and nursing staff lack any
real authority over their junior colleagues. Motivating rules for bonus
payments and merit pay likewise largely are missing.
2.19.     In the final analysis, all these elements need to be combined --
the management information systems to provide indicators of performance, and
the managers with the skills and the authority (decentralization, motivation)
to put the resources at their disposal to their best use.
2.20.     Health manpower and training. As the ratios in para. 2.06. above
indicate, there is an abundance of health professionals in the Algerian
system. Active physicians number some 23,000, and this number will rise to
60,000 over the next ten years. As the public sector will be able to absorb
only a very small number of new graduates, most will enter private practice,
where they will exert upward pressures on health expenditures and force
Government to pay increasing attention to the role of private practice in
health delivery.
2.21.     The ratio of nursing staff to physicians has dropped from 5.7 to a
relatively low 2.7 in recent years as para-medical schools were temporarily
shut down, and this decline is of some concern. Even more so is the additional
dimension of low productivity of much of this staff. While the reasons may be
manifold -- the push for quantity at the expense of quality in past years,
lack of motivation, iow salaries, deficient career structures -- training is
one factor that has direct bearing on productivity and quality of care in the
health system. Apart from basic training, the Algerian health system offers
little opportunity for nursing staff to maintain or upgrade their skills on a
regular basis; nonetheless, they play a crucial role in an environment of
constant progress in the practice of care and cure. Moreover, the system
experiences some difficulty in recruiting good teaching staff to para-medical
schools, as these offer relatively uninteresting compensation to teachers.



- 8 -
2.22.     With regard to formally trained higher-level nursing staff that
make up one third of the nursing corps -- techniciens superieurs de sant6
(TSS) and techniciens de sante (TS) -- strengthening the curriculum in para-
medical schools and in-service training in at least the following major areas
would appear necessary: hygiene, asepsis, pharmacology, communications, ethics
and health regulations. Today, formal in-service training programs, except in
family planning, are almost totally lacking in the system. The agents
techniques de sant6 (ATS) that make up the remaining two thirds of the para-
medical corps should mostly be responsible for infection control and comfort
of patients in health facilities. However, they often substitute for TS staff,
although they rarely have the requisite training.
2.23.     Private medicine.  For sow- time, already, the public health system
has not been able to absorb all medical graduates, and these are increasingly
being channelled into a private sector that is under-regulated and rapidly
becoming a heavy burden on the health insurance system, which at present
reimburses private practitioners on a fee-for-service basis according to
standard fees. Over the next five years an estimated 25,000 new doctors will
graduate, and few of them can expect to find a job in the public health
sector. It will become important for the Government not only to address the
concerns of controlling costs and maintaining standards of quality in private
health care delivery, but also to attempt to draw advantage from the situation
in seeking ways to develop complementarity in and substitutability of public
and private health care provision, mainly in acute care, and in that way
perhaps cut down on the public health bill.
2.24.     Maintenance.  The Algerian health system possesses an extensive
health infrastructure with an impressive array of medical equipment. However,
much of it is poorly maintained or out of order, reflecting (i) inefficiencies
in building and medical equipment maintenance systems, and (ii) chronic
inadequacy of foreign exchange for new equipment, spare parts and service
contracts. The present, centralized system of procurement and maintenance of
medical equipment, including spare parts and service contracts, is structured
around a state monopoly, EN-EMEDI, which also controls the use of the bulk of
foreign exchange allocated for these purposes. Only small allocations are
made to teaching hospitals and health districts to meet immediate, minor
foreign exchange needs. Building and non-medical maintenance is handled by
in-house staff or, rarely, contracted out to local entrepreneurs.
2.25.     EN-EMEDI has not, in spite of relatively well-developed procurement
procedures and well-trained maintenance staff, been able to provide the health
system with the necessary and timely support to keep equipment in running
order, even when foreign exchange has been available. Moreover, as manager of
the limited foreign exchange budget for purchasing new equipment, EN-EMEDI de
facto determines investment priorities in the sector, too often in favor of
the more influential teaching hospitals.
2.26.     Health care financing.  So far, a lack of money has not been a
constraint in the health sector (except for foreign exchange, which no amount
of additional domestic resources will cure), but rather the ineffective and
inefficient application of available funds, as described in the paragraphs
above. We have already indicated the bias in favor of more costly technology-



-9-
based medical care at the top of the health care hierarchy (para. 2.11). It
points to the possibility of obtaining more value for the money spent on
health care in Algeria through adjustments in input mixes in the provision of
care. Increased decentralization, involving clearly defined responsibilities
for providing a broad range of services to a defined population within a fixed
budget, can be expected to provide incentives to use resources in a more cost-
effective manner, while simultaneously maintaining quality. It may also serve
to contain costs.
2.27.     However, in the longer term, health costs may well outstrip the
ability to pay for them, given the triple dynamic of chronic and degenerative
disease that will accompany the gradual aging of the population, the direct
and indirect effects of technological progress and popular demand for ever
more and better health and medical services. The need for greater efficiency
and effectiveness in the delivery of care will become all the more pronounced,
but ways will also have to be explored to contain costs and expand the
financing base to better meet increasing health costs. Ultimately, spending
limits will have to be set and treatment standards devised, somewhat along the
lines of the cost containment efforts that are taking place at present in many
industrialized countries.
2.28.     Efficiency enhancement of hospitals will be a key priority in
trying to maximize the benefits of health spending and achieve savings, since
hospital-based services account for the lion's share of health expenditures in
Algeria. But beyond that, whom to place the burden on in expanding the
funding base? First, a close look will need to be taken at the present health
financing system, which offers little incentive for providers or consumers to
achieve savings while maintaining or improving the quality of care. The strict
application of prospective global budgets will control overall hospital costs,
but will not necessarily motivate staff to higher service levels, while fee-
for-service reimbursement of physicians will tend to provide incentives for
them to increase the volume of services and hence total cost. Second, it seems
likely that the bulk of financing will continue to come from the social
security system, but even with some broadening of the payroll tax base or
increase in rates, it is unlikely that its contribution can continue to expand
in the manner it has done so far. Third, continued budget stringency and
competing interests will limit growth in budget spending. Social security and
the state budget will be the only realistic sources for financing major
disease prevention and health promotion programs, in addition to funding the
bulk of curative services. But even with preventive programs in place, the
demand for secondary and tertiary-level medical care will surely increase.
Since there are serious constraints on the possibilities of the first two
options to increase financing of curative medical care beyond the medium term,
the Government will increasingly have to look to private sources of funds.
Finding ways of translating the potential for increased private spending into
reality will be one of the major health policy tasks in the years ahead.



- 10 
Government Health Policy and Strategy
2.29.     The Algerian authorities are acutely aware of these developments in
the health sector and of their implications for the future of the health care
system -- especially the need to begin to draw the full benefit of the very
significant resources that have been invested in the sector, i.e. to provide
better care with available resources. In many respects the necessary reforms
are already underway or being given serious consideration. Already, Government
initiatives have brought about considerable improvements in some key areas of
health care. Over the past few years, maternal and child health care (MCH)
services have been actively promoted with the assistance of UNICEF. As a
consequence, immunization rates have increased sharply -- BCG immunization
95X, DPT 66X, polio 781 and measles 591; and health promotion and disease
prevention programs focussing on MCH and waterborne diseases and aimed at
changing the behavior of the general public are being developed. The Bank's
ongoing dialogue with the Government on environmental questions, and an
environmental management project under preparation, are expected to strengthen
the Government's ability to address environmentally related health issues.
Family planning services have been extended gradually since 1980 and are now
offered in all health facilities below the hospital level. While contraceptive
prevalence is still relatively modest at 352, strategies to increase use are
being developed with UNFPA and Bank assistance. On the other hand, progress
has yet to be made on the various aspects of efficiency in the system, about
which widespread concern is emerging as the country faces high and rising
costs of care as well as increasing constraints on public funding of health
care for the foreseeable future.
2.30.     Recently, the Government has adopted a policy framework for a
sector reform program where the focus is on improving efficiency and
effectiveness of health delivery, while attempting to control rising health
costs and expand the funding base through modifications to health financing
mechanisms. The program will emphasize increased delegation of management
responsibilities to local health authorities -- while MOPH will continue to
define national objectives and policy for health care, and provide the
necessary regulatory and monitoring framework, health districts will
increasingly be allowed to allocate resources at their disposal in accordance
with local needs. They will remain accountable to the central authorities for
resource use, and local communities will be given increasing voice in the
affairs of local health districts through management boards that will be set
up for each health district. The need for career and incentive structures for
public health providers is recognized.
2.31.     The sector reform program is being gradually implemented. Already,
procurement and maintenance management decisions have been delegated to
hospital and health district levels, as have staff recruitment decisions,
career streams have been established for medical and para-medical personnel,
and staff performance evaluation procedures and hardship compensation payments
have been introduced. Teaching and in-service training responsibilities have
been regrouped under the Ministry of Universities, and salary structures
concurrently modified. This is expected to reinforce the teaching and in-
service training obligations of teaching staff in hospitals and para-medical
schools. Medical and para-medical study is under review with a view to



- 1. -
increase the emphasis on country-specific health problems in course and thesis
work. Work is underway to regroup health districts into self-contained
regional health systems, which should strengthen the referral, communications
and professional networking functions in the health system. Statutes for
increased local community participation in the management of health districts
are being finalized, as are procedures aimed at giving greater discretion to
health districts in the use of moneys allocated to them in annual health
budgets. It is in particular envisaged to let health districts freely
allocate the full budget allowance as needs arise, and to allow them to retain
revenues from fees. Existing arrangements for the financing of health care are
under review with a view to increasing transparency and fairness in the budget
allocation process, and to allow for better cost control in the health system.
Likewise, the role of the private sector in the health care system is being
reviewed with a view to its complementarity and substitutability with public
health services.
The Bank's Role
2.32.       The proposed project would be the first Bank project in the
health sector in Algeria, where the Bank is closely involved in the shaping of
the health sector reform program described in para. 2.31 above. Better
performance in the health sector is an integral part of the Algerian
government's overall economic reform effort (para. 1.01), but it has limited
capacity and little experience in addressing these questions, while they are
areas where the Bank has the appropriate experience and skills, as well as,
the comparative advantage over other, more technically specialized, agencies
operating in the health sector. Therefore the Government is seeking outside
assistance, in particular Bank support, to design and implement the necessary
changes.   In addition to the support the Bank is already providing in the
framework of the sector dialogue, it has also actively contributed to the
Government's efforts to shape a coherent population policy through advice on
the cost implications of different population control strategies. More widely,
the Bank can draw on similar approaches taken in support of public enterprise
reform, and in the agricultural and higher education sectors. Together with
the Science and Technology University Development Project and the ongoing
dialogue on qualitative improvements in primary and secondary education, the
proposed project forms part of a broader human resource development dialogue
between the Government and the Bank.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Summary Description
3.01.     The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
improve efficiency aud effectiveness in the Algerian public health care
delivery system. It would, on a pilot basis and in a limited area (paras. 3.02
to 3.05), (i) develop management tools that would allow the Algerian
government to begin implementing changes in the management and operations of
the health system at central and local levels, which it is gradually
introducing and which are described in paras. 2.30 and 2.31. These methods
would subsequently be extended nationwide. It would (ii) strengthen
professional in-service training in the pilot area, and it would (iii) upgrade
strategic planning capabilities in the MOPH. The project would:
(a) improve resource management through the development of appropriate
health management and information systems and related epidemiological and
performance indicators, for (i) financial reporting and cost accounting,
(ii) patient administration and treatment provision, (iii) service and
personnel performance evaluation, (iv) purchasing and maintenance of medical
equipment, and (v) building and non-medical maintenance; introduction of the
systems would be complemented by pre- and in-service training of managers and
their support staff;
(b) improve guality of services by raising professional skills of public
health sector personnel through stronger pre- and in-service training for
medical and para-medical staff, with particular focus on professional
communication between health personnel at different levels of the system, and
on the relevance of training programs to local needs; and by upgrading skills
of hospital maintenance personnel;
(c) improve the utilization of groject area facilities through upgrading
of their diagnostic and emergency handling capabilities and the rehabilitation
of basic systems such as electricity and water supply; and through the
development and implementation of a hospital masterplan for the teaching
hospital of Bab el Oued; and
(d) strengthen strategig 2lanning and management in MOPH, including
capabilities to monitor and evaluate project results for systematic extension
nationwide of the managemeric tools developed under the project.
Project Areas
3.02.     The project would include three pilot areas: (i) the teaching
hospital (CHU) of Bab el Oued, (ii) the adjacent urban health district of Bab
el Oued, a poor area in Algiers (with ambulatory facilities that rely on the
CHU for specialized services and refer to it), and (iii) the rural wilaya of
Medea, which includes a general hospital, five small district level hospitals
and a number of lower-level ambulatory facilities.



- 13 -
3.03.     The CHU of Bab el Oued was created in 1987 within the structures of
an old military hospital (h6pital Maillot) built over a hundred years ago on
an historical site. The numerous buildings, constructed over the years, are
spread out on a large site located close to the most densely populated section
of Bab el Oued. Hospital utilities are outmoded and unsanitary, the electrical
system is dangerous and water supply unreliable. The CHU is part of a network
of four teaching hospitals that provide clinical training to the students of
the Algiers university medical school. An 800 bed hospital, the CHU has a
medical staff of 490, some 550 para-medical staff and 1,500 administrative and
contractual personnel. It draws the bulk of its patient base from the
surrounding health district of Bab el Oued. Its budget for 1988 was DA
92 million.
3.04.     The urban health district of Bab el Oued is located in the western
part of the city of Algiers. Its staff of 220 medical, 250 para-medical and
170 administrative and contractual personnel cover a population of about
400,000, distributed among eight communes. Most of the neighborhoods included
in the district are among the poorest, most crowded, least sanitary and with
the lowest level of schooling in Algiers. In 1988, the budget for the health
district totalled DA 63 million.
3.05.     The wilaya of Medea has a population of 700,000, which is largely
rural, but concentrated in very small villages (Douars). There are a few
small towns, including the largest, Medea, with a population of 80,000. The
wilaya comprises six health districts with six hospitals (Medea general
hospital (600 beds) and the smaller district-level hospitals of Berrouaghia,
Ksar-el-Boukhari, Ain-Boucif, Tablat, Beni-Slimane), six polyclinics, 20
health centers and 180 health posts. It has a total medical staff of 500 and
1,050 para-medical staff. For 1988, its health budget was DA 154 million.
Project Description
(a) Improved Mana2ement
3.06.     Appropriate management and health information systems would be
designed and performance indicators developed in the CHU and health districts
to permit monitoring and evaluation of resource use and its effectiveness --
at facility and service levels for operational management purposes, and
nationally by central authorities for strategic planning and management of the
national health system. Such indicators would record medical (out-patient
visits and admissions, bed occupancy ratios, release criteria, lengths of
stay, interventions, referrals, immunization rates, pregnancy care) as well as
non-medical (personnel, maintenance, inventory, pharmaceuticals, catering
services) activities. Epidemiological surveillance would be strengthened,
especially in the CHU catchment area where this activity would be designed for
replicability elsewhere, and where it would serve as an important element of
effective collaboration between health district and teaching hospital. It
would be undertaken by the epidemiological unit of the CHU and include
epidemiological data collection and analysis, development of indicators for
the Bab el Oued area and dissemination of pertinent information.



- 14 -
3.07.     A financial reporting and cost a^counting system has already been
developed by the health authorities in the wilaya of Medea. It would be
strengthened and computerized under the project. Medea would provide technical
assistance under the project to adapt the system for use in the CHU and the
health sector of Bab el Oued. Technical assistance would be provided to help
develop other aspects of the MIS, in particular administrative functions such
as personnel management, management of supplies and inventories, patients'
administrative records, treatment data and billing, as well as related
computerization of these functions and the financial reporting and cost
accounting system. The technical assistance would also provide managers with
on-the-job training in the application of the management systems for
management purposes, and support staff in the use of the related equipment and
documentation, and in computer procedures and systems. In addition, basic and
continuing management training would be provided under programs that are being
developed with donor assistance in a new national health management school.
The project would also provide equipment, essentially computers, and related
software and materials, and develop appropriate documentation to facilitate
the management function. During project implementation, the MISs would be
monitored for appropriateness and adjusted as necessary for subsequent
adoption on a nationwide basis.
3.08.     The project would introduce systematic building maintenance, and
medical and non-medical equipment maintenance programs in all health
facilities in the project area, including computerized inventory of spare
parts, supplies, tools and work programs, and it would strengthen maintenance
management and planning skills of existing facility-level maintenance staff.
Routine preventive and corrective maintenance of buildings, non-medical
equipment and utilities would be assumed by facility-level maintenance staff,
while major works would be undertaken by local contractors under the
supervision of facility maintenance staff. In order to set up the modified
maintenance system and provide necessary training to maintenance staff,
technical assistance would be provided during an initial four-month period,
followed by two yearly three-week continuing education workshops. The in-
service training of the technicians would involve practical lectures and on-
the-job training based on actual maintenance work in the facilities. Users
(medical and para-medical personnel) would be responsible for preventive and
simple corrective maintenance of equipment in their charge. They would be
trained in these tasks by the technicians, who would also supervise their
performance in this regard. The project would provide facility-level
maintenance staff with necessary equipment, tools and instruments, as well as
mobile workshops for outreach in the health districts.
3.09.     During negotiations, the Government confirmed to the Bank in a
strategy letter dated January 9, 1991, its main intentions for reform in the
health sector as described in paras. 2.30 and 2.31 above and its intention to
implement most of these measures during 1991 and 1992. The strategies include
proposals to gradually (i) decentralize public health care through the
introduction of self-contained regional health systems, (ii) delegate
operational decision-making in resource use to local health authorities, (iii)
increase the relevance of staff training programs to local conditions, and
(iv) develop career streams and incentive structures for health providers in
the public sector. The Government and the Bank will review annually progress



- 15 -
achieved by the Government Lu implementing its health sector reform strategies
as outlined in the strategy letter. (para. 6.01).
(b) Training
3.10.     The project would help strengthen teaching programs in the CHU of
Bab el Oued and in the para-medical schools that are attached to the CHU and
the general hospital in Medea through the provision of teaching materials and
audio-visual equipment. Moreover, in the para-medical schools, curricula would
be updated to better reflect advances in the provision of care, and trainers
would be given corresponding training.
3.11.     In-service training programs, workshops and refresher courses would
be organized on a systematic basis to strengthen the technical competence and
skills of existing medical and para-medical personnel (health district
doctors, all para-medical staff). Workshops for doctors would emphasize
national health priorities and especially aim at enhancing clinical,
diagnostic and managerial skills. Para-medical staff would be trained in
hygiene, asepsis, clinical management, communications, ethics and health
regulations, as well as other themes deemed appropriate by health managers.
Health bulletins and periodic publication of pamphlets on selected themes
would reinforce in-service training. As noted under the management section
above, all staff with management responsibility would be trained in management
skills; and medical and para-medical staff would be trained in preventive and
simple corrective maintenance.
3.12.     The modified curricula for para-medical schools and the in-service
training programs and modules would be developed by CHU and Medea general
hospital staff in collaboration with the health district and under the
guidance of the Training Department (TD) of MOPH.
3.13.     In order to draw additional benefit from the considerable resources
invested in the hospital system, communications between different levels of
the health pyramid would be developed that would serve as on-the-job training
for doctors -- to alter referral patterns, reduce the professional isolation
felt by many field staff, and improve professional skills. Collaboration
between referring doctors and specialists in patient care would be promoted as
part of CHU and hospital policy: formal arrangements for CHU specialists to
consult in the health district of Bab el Oued would be tested, and modalities
for keeping referring doctors abreast of specialist care given to their
patients in the CHU would be developed; in the wilaya of Medea, a system of
educational exchange between lower and higher level facility staff would be
introduced to improve their diagnostic, clinical and managerial skills
(educative supervision by general hospital staff, seminars, epidemiological
and information bulletins). The referral system between various levels of care
would be formalized, including the development of telecommunications
facilities (telephone and telefax) for the transmittal of patient information,
for second opinions, etc.



- 16 -
(c) Rehabilitatei9 and re-equiDging of facilities
3.14.     The project would provide small-scale civil works, equipment and
supplies to rehabilitate health facilities and services in order to ensure
adequately functioning facilitles in the project area that will permit valid
conclusions to be drawn from the pilot experience. Initially, it would provide
the CNU with equipment and supplies to bring diagnostic (laboratory and
radiology) and emergency services, as well as electricity and water
distribution systems, up to CHU standard (based on functions and a reasonable
assumption about future workloads). It would also improve the structures to
house those medical services. It would support the updating of a masterplan
for the CHU and, finally, provide foreign exchange up to an amount of US$1
million (see para. 3.17) to finance some priority purchases of medical
equipment to be defined under the masterplan.
3.15.     In the health sector of Bab el Oued, diagnostic equipment, in-
service training and improved management would allow lower level facilities to
fulfill their screening role in patient flows vis-a-vis the CHU. Structural
renovations would be undertaken and equipment provided to upgrade the public
health laboratory, renew radiology services, strengthen MCH, environmental and
industrial health services, and provide vehicles to support these activities.
3.16.       Laboratory and radiology services at Medea general hospital, as
well as selected activities in emergency, pediatric and maternity services,
and basic systems such as electricity and water supply would be upgraded
through the provision of equipment. Administrative and catering functions of
the hospital would be strengthened. In order to improve the utilization of the
facilities in the wilaya, an improved referral system and communication
campaign to better informed the population of health priorities and available
services would be organized.
(d) Development services
3.17.     A total of US$5 million of the Bank loan would be allocated for
institutional development. A central theme of the project is the development
and testing of new approaches to managing health services in the evolving
Algerian context, from the rural health district to the teaching hospital. If
judged promising or successful, these approaches would subsequently be
extended nationwide. Consequently, the project would provide support to the
HOPH to strengthen its capacity to monitor and evaluate system performance,
and to plan for change. Such support would involve fellowships and training
in health sector planning and management, in extending the MIS to NOPH, and in
related computer applications. It would also involve support to i) prepare
possible extension of the methods introduced in the project to cther parts of
the country, and ii) the analysis of important issues in the he'aith sector,
such as questions relating to health financing, and levels, causss,
distribution and determinants (especially environmental and behavioral ones)
of ill-health. It would also support the purchase of up to US$1 million of
priority equipment identified after updating of the CHU Nasterplan
(para. 3.14).



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, NANAGENENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Costs
4.01.     The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at
US$26.7 million, including taxes and duties. See Annex VIII for details of
Project Costs.
4.02.     Basis of Cost Estimates. The costs of construction and renovations
are based on recently awarded contracts for similar work. Equipment costs have
been estimated using c.i.f. prices for medical equipment and local prices for
other equipment, expected to be procured locally. Technical assistance costs
have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable technical
assistance in the region. Local in-service training costs reflect actual costs
in Algeria. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected for the time of
negotiations (January, 1991).
4.03.     Customs Duties and Taxes. Project costs include customs duties and
taxes which are estimated at US$0.7 million.
4.04.     Continency Allowances. Physical contingencies in the amount of 101
(US$1.6 million) have been applied to all project costs. Price contingencies
between appraisal (May 1990) and the end of project implementation are
estimated at US$1.8 million equivalent, or 91 of base cost. Price increases
have been applied to both local and foreign costs at the annual rate of 4.91.
It is assumed that sustained differences between domestic and international
inflation rates would be offset by exchange rate adjustments over time.
4.05.     Foreign Exchan&e Component. The foreign exchange component,
Including contingencies, is estimated at US$17.6 million, or about 661 of
total costs. It is estimated as follows: (a) civil works - 251; (b) equipment
- 871; (c) training - OX; (d) specialist services, including technical
assistance - 931.
4.06.     Incremental Operating Costs. Incremental operating costs generated
under the project are estimated at US$0.3 million equivalent per year at
project completion. They are mainly generated by management staff costs. These
incremental operating costs will represent less than 11 of estimated public
health expenditures in the pilot areas in the final year of the project. The
financial feasibility of expansion of the model therefore appears good, and
should be strengthened by efficiency savings arising out of the project.
Project Financing
4.07.     The proposed Bank loan of US$16.0 million would finance 601 of
total cost, all of it foreign exchange. The Government would finance the
remainder, or US$10.7 million equivalent of project costs, including about 101
of the foreign exchange costs (representing the indirect foreign exchange
costs of civil works). A breakdown of project financing is shown in Table
4.1.



- 18 -
Table 4.1. Financing Planl/
--~~~--------- US$ Million ------------
Category of Expenditure  Government   Bank    Total finanoing
Civil works               8.4                   6.4
Equipment                 1.6      10.S        12.2
Technical assistance      0.1      0.6         0.7
Training                  0.0 2/    -           0.0
Devolopment services      2.4      4.8         7.2
Incremental recurrent costs  0.2    -           0.2
Total                  10.7     16.0         26.7
1/ Includes US$680,000 in indirect taxes and duties financed by Government.
2/ US$20,000 equivalent.
Project Management and Implementation; Supervision
4.08.       Responsibility for overall project coordination and monitoring of
project progress would rest with the Planning Department of MOPH. It would
undertake these tasks in collaboration with the health authorities in each of
the pilot areas -- the CHU of Bab el Oued, the adjacent health district of Bab
el Oued, and the wilaya of Medea. The Planning Department would also manage
activities directly pertaining to the Ministry. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to maintain these implementation arrangements for the
duration of the project, with satisfactory terms of reference (para. 6.01).
Detailed annual implementation schedules will be prepared, beginning with a
project launch workshop prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan (Annex VI). A
limited number of indicators to monitor progress on the various elements of
the project would be developed -- process indicators on patient flows, lengths
of stay, referrals, staff interventions, costs, management and peer reviews;
and outcome indicators, including morbidity and mortality by service and
diagnosis (Annex VII). Activities would be reviewed semi-annually with a view
to adjusting them if necessary. Progress reports would be prepared by each of
the implementing authorities, centralized at the level of the Department of
Planning of the MOPH and submitted to the Bank for comments (para. 6.01).
These reports would be prepared semi-annually and especially comment on the
methodologies for management being applied and review progress indicators, in
addition to monitoring overall progress on the various components. Procurement
of furniture, equipment and supplies would be undertaken by the respective
pilot areas. EN-EMEDI, which has the capability to undertake procurement
efficiently, would provide guidance and support as necessary. Recruitment of
consultants would be undertaken by the Department of Planning in consultation
with the pilot area authorities.
4.09.       The project would be supervised and monitored by the Bank through
the normal supervision mechanism. It will require about 45 weeks of
supervision over a five-year implementation period.



- 19 -
Procurement
4.10.       Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in
Table 4.2.
4.11.       Government-financed procurement would be undertaken in accordance
with the Government*s competitive bidding procedures, which have been reviewed
by the Bank and are considered efficient. Bank-financed procurement would be
undertaken as follows.
Table 4.2. Procurement Arran8ementa
-.......-----US$ million------------
Procurement Method*
... ..... ............. ............................ ........ .........
Project Element          ICB     LIB       Other        Total
........  .  ............ .. ... ......... .......................... ... ...... ........
Civil works              -        -         6.4          6.4
(0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment                6.0     4.0        2.1         12.1
(6.0)   (4.0)      (0.6)      (10.6)
Technical assistance     -        -         0.7          0.7
(0.6)       (0.6)
Training                 -        -         0.0 1/       0.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Development services     -       3.0        4.2          7.2
-      (3.0)      (1.8)       (4.8)
Incremental
recurrent costs        -        -         0.3          0.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
.....  .....  .  .. .....     -----... .. ..........
Total                    6.0     7.0       13.7         26.7
(6.0)   (7.0)      (3.0)      (16.0)
*Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan
1/US$20,000 equivalent
4.12.      Goods. The total cost of goods (equipment and related service
contracts, materials, vehicles) to be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines is estimated at
US$6.0 million equivalent. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would be given a
margin of preference of 15X or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
To the extent practicable, contracts would be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more. ICB would be used for
contracts exceeding US$100,000, except for specialized equipment items for
which there is only a limited number of suppliers (e.g. radiology equipment
suppliers with after sale services implanted in Algeria); in such cases,
limited international bidding (LIB) would be used up to an aggregate limit of
US$7.0 million. Contracts with a value not exceeding US$100,000 up to an



- 20 -
aggregate limit of US$0.6 million would be procured through prudent shopping
with at least three price quotations. Proprietary or single-source items
justified on technical grounds, would be obtained through direct purchase
(e.g. small medical equipment to be purchased from UNICEF/UNIPAK). EN-EMEDI
would provide technical assistance with bidding and contract preparation.
Under ICB procedures, all bidding packages for goods over US$300,000
equivalent (about 80X of the total estimated value of goods contracts) would
be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank after
contract award.
4.13.       Serviges. The selection and appointment of consultants for an
estimated total value of US$0.6 million would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
4.14.       The proposed loan would be fully committed in four years. It would
be disbursed over five years. A disbursement schedule is attached in Annex IX.
There are no directly comparable EMENA disbursement profiles. Disbursements
would be made as follows:
(a) 1OOX of foreign expenditures and local expenditures (ex factory)
and 701 of local expenditures (for items procured locally) for
equipment, furniture, materials, supplies and vehicles; and
(b) 1001 of expenditures for consultant services, fellowships and
training.
4.15.       Withdrawal applications for expenditures of less that US$100,000
would be based on statements of expenditure; supporting documentation would be
retained by the project area coordinating teams for review by Bank supervision
missions and for annual audits. All other disbursements would be fully
documented.
Status of Preparation
4.16.       The proposed loan would be disbursed in about five years. This
reflects the fact that: (i) equipment lists have for the most part been
completed, reviewed and approved by the Bank appraisal mission, and standard
bidding documents are being prepared for Bank review; (ii) for larger
equipment purchases, EN-EHEDI would lend its expertise in bidding and contract
preparation, and they have a solid experience in all forms of medical
equipment purchase.



- 21 -
Special Account
4.17.       To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank of Algeria, to
which the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 million (para. 6.01).
The Special Account would be replenished at least every three months or when
the undisbursed balance of the account falls below an amount equal to 50X or
less of the amount of the Special Account.
Accounts and Audits
4.18.       The MOPH would keep separate accounts for all project-related
expenditures. Each semester a detailed statement reflecting project
expenditures during that period, and projected expenditures for the following
semester, would be prepared. Within 45 days after the end of each semester,
copies of these statements would be submitted to the Bank to facilitate
supervision. Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the March
1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". Within six months of the end of each fiscal year,
the Bank would be provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as it
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures (para. 6.01).



- 22 -
V. JSUFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01.      The proposed pilot project will directly address major short- and
medium-term problems in the sector. It will provide the Government with
replicable models for efficient health management that gradually should
improve the delivery of health services nationwide at all levels of the health
system. In time, given the high degree of availability of health services in
Algeria, better management is expected to have a significant beneficial impact
on health status among all age groups of the population. It will also provide
better health and medical services for over one million inhabitants in the
pilot areas. Finally, it will provide foreign exchange that is needed to
purchase spare parts and maintenance services that are critical to efficient
operation of the health system.
Risks
5.02.      The major risks of the project refer to the ability of the
Government to delegate effective control over health sector management to the
pilot areas and to the capacity of those areas to effectively assume increased
responsibilities. The pilot nature of project design recognizes that this will
be a delicate undertaking that will require substantive incentives and
patience in order to succeed. The risks are reduced by the fact that the
Government has already implemented a number of important measures aimed at
improving overall system performance and at delegating responsibility (paras.
2.30 and 2.31). It is actively pursuing further reform proposals with field
level managers. Limited experience and skills of local managers in exercising
authority and responsibility is recognized, and training and technical
assistance provided under the project are designed to enhance their ability to
use effectively the management tools that the project will develop.



- 23 -
VI. AGREEgENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECONMENDATIONS
6.01.       During negotiations, the Govertment agreed on the following:
(a)   it would carry out the program as set forth in its January 9, 1991
strategy letter in support of selected health sector reforms, and
that progress on on implementation of the program would be
reviewed annually with the Bank (para. 3.09);
(b)   it would maintain project coordination and implementation
arrangements for the duration of the project (para. 4.08);
(c)   it would maintain satisfactory arrangements for the establishment
of the Special Account (para. 4.17);
(d)   the project accounts would be maintained, audited, and submitted
for Bank review six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 4.18).
6.02.       Subject to the above conditiot.s, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$16.0 million to the Democratic and
Popular Republic of Algeria.



- 24 -
AMNEK I
ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health Management Project
Upper-Middle Income Countries and Regional Trends in Health and Social Indices*
oua S    Zahot       Ut.           rVinI      hlinii-l,_lS
~~~~w         tat"             uto            r e       primall_  e
Cqtm 4,7)1   am too) soo (as)    t 88to o)   t aU (16)  lmmol 485)
ALeeza   a2,60           107        73           63          3?          6?
Tusosiawel   2.U60            2.        25           n           so          66
.,60            33        36           go          a           I"
latupi       2.0a,            17        14           73          so     m    0
V_1,mIa      3,32             46        36           70          a5 U        w
t_o           Us        s             61         22           16
T a          x1.160           63        s o                      *1          10?
*sUZW  roe 8tat. et the MuJ's C1iz.a4, 138. *stfd Uolvzatr fte. 193.
1/ World Bank: WDM 1989



- 25 -
ANNEX II
ALGERIA - PIL0T PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Five grincipal communicable diseases reported at
consultations in the wilaya of Medea. 1987'
Disease                               Cases
Gonococcal infection                          226
Hydatid cyst                                  127
Dysentery                                     125
Typhoid fever                                 112
Viral hepatitis                               112
Regorted Cases of Waterborne diseases. 19872
Disease                               Cases
Viral hepatitis                               2,637
Dysentery                                     2,405
Typhoid fever                                 2,305
Cholera                                       1,593
'/ Wilaya de Med6a: Rapport annuel d'activit6, annee 1987
2/ Ministere de la Sante Publique: Plan d'action du secteur de la santd
pour 1Vann6e 1989.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health Management Project
Algeria - Health Infrastructure 1988
..............
Designation                         Nuiber         Beds
...........                         ......    .    .......... .... ...._.. . ... 
CHU                                    13          16,600
District hospltal                     178          41,200
Special hospital                       18           5,645
Polyclinic                            428            NA
Health center                       1,229            NA
Maternity center                      147
Health post                         2,720            NA
Public health laboratory               26            NA
State pharmacy                      1,023            NA
Private pharmacy                      718            NA
Drug sale points                    1,741            NA



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health Manacement Prolect
Algeria - Health sector expenditures and financing, 1980-89
(DA billion)
1980    1985    1988    1989
Total health
expenditures (THE)      6112    12625    19187    19969
- to GDP (%)             3.7      4.4      6.0      5.4
Public health
expenditures            4521     9746    15613   16223
- to THE (%)            74.0    77.2    81.4    81.3
- to GDP (%)             2.8      3.4      4.9      4.5
THE per capita
Recurrent expenditures   5466   11021    17230   18523
- personnel (96)           ..    67.4    70.8
- drugs()                37.8    30.2    22.8    22.1
-other (96)               ..      2.4      6.4
THE financing (96):
State budget            29.3    17.9    20.0    19.9
Social security         39.9    57.2    60.3    60.2
Private                 26.0    24.6      18.6    18.7
Others                   5.4      2.3      1.1      1.1



- 28 -
ALGERIA- PlId Pubo N_eth MaWnMt Projec
OVEBVIEW OF HE_LTH OTUATION                             ANNE  V
Page 1 of 2
GOAL AND OBJECnVES                MEANS                  INTERV,ENTION8
Ongon or plannwd
1. IMPROVE RELEVANCE OF                                r  financed EL01!!!
HEALTH SERVICES:
-ecrreas the main          -Proram against childhood    - National Program Against
cauee of mordality and     communleable dises         Inbnt Modallty
morbidity                 (EPI, ARI. diarrhea
control) and aoute
malnutton.
- Ealy registration and    - partily covered by
care of pregna womn        ebove program and UNFPA
(sening for high risk,     fnded actiie (family
supersed prenatal and      plannng)
deliey care, emergency     -arly registration High
transport and management    risk management, emergency
eysem. TT lmmunzton,       transpot, postpatum
family planning)           care, provide more amlJy
planning meos
- Pogram against           - Bureau d'hygiene
waterborne dimases         communal: Water
distibution and
seanitation.
-Prrity to the moat        - Develop medical         |- Hji    maag
omnon disems               protco lfortrteatnt        lm   (patm)
and refal f most usua
affections
It. IAPROVE THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF HEALTH
SERVICES
-impre quaity of cue:    - Srenthen medical
education
- tghen Paramedical        - Currlculum review
tani                       - Training of trainers
- Proide educona
matedda
- improe prica
training and evaluation of
trainin
- Continued education for   A         kees   of
physicians and paramedicd   leydm and proide remedy
staff
- improe diagnostic       h-prii-boayand
technology                lRullobgyaaity
- improve maintnance    |   Ti    in   g      i mng
lo-qulpm NWa oe vp |t
- Evaluate quality of     |-HP(paim)
servies



I          I1 { i    'ilE
I2~~~~~~   c



. 30 -
ALGEMA       NO MOMl WI~lt IaMg2  92"gW                                ANNEX V#
-~~~~~~~ _ 
-ntet_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q I -                                                    3
Pv.4itlea  vow I         Ye.          y ow$         Ye. 4
-                                                   Ieet  .wmo         I tttd
- Pwgs. TOR   d Itw_ Onloom
-pomosslonsinala  -
N HEALTHASECVORA38SEL 0UD
fte-looIm.       Ve 1          Ye I  voVaYw 3             V40s
- T,09 trqe It_ Medt I
abods _ ttP
- T-"
- aoeffiefit t?v I
- Pailb" of intemauon
UMDOM ISOURCES
- Coedutued oduasao
- putolien educadc"o
mnoseEUaid equpise
EOUWMEMT
- _emeoqim,                                         I-I
- VeGlolve
_set Up ffomaitsn"egai Iyt
- TrsItlg oelateS ff O
ad.0PGb -1a4dl
- Upqrd wt   and *Mcw"
"       emm                                          I



- 31 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
ANQ:(cost)
IM  CHU Bab el Oued
pro-Ime.            Yw 1             Yea 2           Ve$             Yew 4
MANAGEMW
- Recruit hospitl planner nd
architet toupt   ster Pbn                    I 
- Prepar TOR for Techn. A"oit to
et up MIS In ab el Oue & aMed                I        I
- RecruIt TA for MIS mplbmentatIn                             II
- Order MIS hardwe nd oeoftwre                                    1-
- Train mens                                                  I
- Train MIS operator IsI
-purchtae offosequlpment                                      I -
-Comnputerize ponnel data m
HUUAN RESOURC
- Upda  teaching modusI                                I
- Traln tra                                              I
- Purchaee eduationa equlpment                                I
-  cruit libraran & Lonm  technician
-Continuededucsaion
HOSPITAL UPGRADN
-Complete c  wie
- Putm    equipment
-PreWmTORm<ndreorultTA                        I          I
- Imprement mantnc
mnamment I'te                                                          I
- Purohae eulpment and
ae parte                           pI -
- Upgrdeer and elotrial
EVALUATION
-Epidem wo                                                    I
-Offie quipment                                               I - I



- 32 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
IV. MLAYA MEEA
Pre-impbom.         Vas 1          you             Ye aV O     3    W  4
- Trian m  gp from Sb o1 Oved                               I - I
-Vullareandcxte"ndIS
-Compued,. MIi-
-Pure equipmnt                                                1      I
-Treinetaf                                                  I
_ Feedba* ofd hhbn
HUMAN REUSO
-COuntiued ed_tin
- Puroh educatlonal
mabtW  end equipmnt                                        I
HOSPITAL ANM SECTO<R ST HENI
- Purch   of equipmwnt                                        1
MANTEWAME
- St up mIntnn    eytni-
- Training e technanw and uee1
- Purchawe of equipme  euppile
and apar Wual
_ Upgrading of wate  nd
lEC
- Prepe TOR to TA to
Hbm e-n                                    I            i
- Heejb ducton crampaign-



-33 -
ANNEX VII
ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health Management Project
Technical Assistance
Tahio Asigu_                 Pr."Mm.    Yo I        YoWt       Yews      YOW4
MASTPLAN
- NadMPlnner                   (GuSks
-bMebhits                     (6 wws
MAMENT
- Su" up Mm atCHU. Ibb El 0U
wdS _Mod"                               limo.       2Wm.      am
- Tan  pW"e                               I m.
-cm"l&*manolpwnaigedo                    lodns       2me
- So&* upn ur_mgL.                        3Mg       IiML       II t
Oued                                     2UL
-8.UnupUow 11oWA
h-Si                                      4aM.      3v         3k
IEmm
-Mde                                      3*         me         Mo.



- 34 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA  - Pilot Public Health Maaagement Prgject
Project Cost Summamy
DImMS                          DOLLARS                      X Total
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-------   ------------------------ X  Foreign         Bos
Lotal  Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange       Costs
A. MANAGEMENT                        9.1       62.3      71.3         1.1     7.7      8.9         87.3       3.8
B. HUMAN RESOURCES                   19.9     23.1      43.0          2.5     2.9      5.3         S3.8       2.3
C. REHABILITATION                  384.6    500.4    885.0          47.7    62.1    109.8          56.5      47.0
0. MAINTENANCE                      36.3    260.1    296.3           4.5    32.3    36.8           87.8      15.7
E. PROGRESS MONITORING               6.7        3.0      9.7          0.8     0.4      1.2         30.8       0.5
F. DEVELOPNENT SERVICES             190.9    387.6    578.6         23.7    48.1    71.8           67.0      30.7
............... .......................................................... ....................................  ....................
TotaL BASEULIE COSTS               647.5   1236.4   1883.9          80.3    153.4   233.8          65.6    100.0
Physical Contingencies           43.3       85.2     128.5         5.4    10.6    15.9          66.3       6.8
Price Contingencies              42.5       98.3     140.8        5.3      12.2    17.5         69.8       7.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS               733.3    1419.9   2153.2         91.0    176.2   267.2          65.9     114.3
.                    ..........................................
Vatues Seated by 100000.0 - 1I29/1991 10:04



- 35 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5
ALGERIA - -PL1t Public Health ManaLement Project
Summary Accounts Cost Summar'
DINARS                             DOLLARS                          X Total
...--    ....................    *-------------.---------.         Foreign       Base
Locat   Foreign       Total         Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange       Costs
...... ..........._....... ................ ........................... ............................................   ....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
. ..................
A. CIVIL  OICRKS                        326.2       108.7     435.0          40.5      13.5      54.0           25.0       23.1
B. EQUIPNENT                            ¶01.1      69S.2      796.3          12.5      86.3      96.8           87.3       42.3
C. TECNEICAL ASSISTANCE                   3.6        44.8      48.5           0.5       5.6       6.0           92.5        2.6
0. TRAINING                               1.4         0.0        1.4          0.2       0.0        0.2           0.0        0.1
E. DEVELOPMENT SERVICES                 190.9      387.6      578.6          23.7      48.1       71.8          67.0       30.7
...... ..........._................................ ........    ................ _..... ..............   ....................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  623.3     1236.4    1859.7           7J.4    153.4    230.6             66.5       96.7
It. REOURRENT COSTS
..... ....... ..................
A. INCREMENTAL COSTS                     24.2         0.0       24.2          3.0       0.0        3.0           0.0        1.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                    647.5    1236.4    1883.9            80.3    153.4    233.8             65.6      100.0
Physical Contingencies                43.3       85.2      128.5           5.4      10.6      15.9          66.3         6.8
Price Contingencies                   42.S       98.3      140.8           5.3      12.2      17.5          69.8         7.S
............... ................................................    ...........................   ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    733.3    1419.9    2153.2            91.0    176.2    267.2             65.9      114.3
Val, e  Scaled..... 10000.0-.. 1. 29... .... 10-:0-4......................................................................



- 36 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 5
AIERMI - Pilot Public Health Management Prgiect
Summar  Acgousnts by Year
Totals Including Cont1ng nies                     Totats  Includinr  Contingencies
DINARS                                            DOLLARS
.....................I................................    ................... .................................... ..... 
1991    1992    1993    1994   Total             9       1992    1993    1994   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
........ .........................._
A. CIVIL WORKS                         318.7   194.5       0.0      0.0   513.3         39.6    24.1       0.0      0.0    63.7
S. EQUIPMENT                           207.2   483.3   246.S    42.4   979.4            25.7    60.0    30.6        5.3   121.S
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTAHCE                 25.4    16.0       9.3      2.4    53.0          3.1      2.0      1.2      0.3      6.6
0. TRAINING                              1.4      0.1      0.0      0.0      1.4         0.2       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.2
E. DEVELOPNENT SERVICES                120.9   201.4   201.4    54.8   578.6            1S.0    25.0    25.0        6.8    71.8
...;;..................................... ................................................................... .. ....    
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                 673.6   895.3   457.2    99.5  2125.7            83.6   111.1    56.7    12.4   263.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...... ..... ......
A. INCREMENTAL COSTS                     4.6      7.7      7.5      7.8    27.5          0.6       1.0     0.9      1.0      3.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                    678.2   903.0   464.7   107.4  2153.2            84.2   112.1    57.7    13.3   267.2
........................ .............. : ..............................................................................
Vatues Scated by 100000.0 1/29/1991 10:04



- 37
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5
ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health lanagem.nt Project
Summarv Accounts by Year,
DINARS
Base Costs                           Foreign Exchuie
1991     1992      1993      1994    Total         %   AmmaXt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. ClVIL VORKS                     275.0    160.0        0.0       0.0    435.0        25.0  108.7
B. EQUIPNENT                       178.3    394.7    191.8        31.5    796.3        87.3  695.2
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             24.1      14.4      8.0        2.0     48.5        92.5   44.8
0. TRAINING                          1.3       0.1       0.0       0.0       1.4        0.0    0.0
E. DEVELOPNENT SERVICES            120.9    201.4    201.4        54.8    578.6        67.0  387.6
, ................................................................................... ..................
Total INVSTENlT COSTS              599.5    770.7    401.3        88.3   1859.?        66.S  1236.4
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
F. INCREMENTAL COSTS                 4.3       6.9       6.4       6.4     24.2         0.0    0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               60.8      7.6    407.7         94.7   1885.9        65.6  1236.4
Physical Contingencies           45.9      58.6      20.7       3.3    128.5        66.3   85.2
Price Contingencies              28.4      66.9      36.2       9.4    140.8        69.8   98.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                678.2    903.0    464.7    107.4   2153.2           65.9  1419.9
Taxes                            26.5      23.3       4.9       0.8     55.5         0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchange                368.7    616.0    360.6        74.6   1419.9       100.0  1419.9
........................................................................................................
Vatues Scaled by 100000.0  1/29/1991  10:04



ALGERIA - Pilot Public Health Management Project
Summary Account by Project Comtonent
DINARS
Physical           Price
HU"AN                         PROGRESS  DEVELOPN                     Contingencles       Contingenc es
NAAGENE  RESOURCE  RENABILI  NAINTENA   NOITORI           ENT                   .............  , ........
NT          S      TATION        UCE        1G      SERVICES      Total         X      Amowit       X   Amout
1I INlVESTMENT COSTS
............................. 
A. CIVIL WORKS                             0.0        0.0      435.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      43S.0       10.0       43.5      8.0       34.8
B. EGUIPMENT                              37.S       25.6      44S.8      286.2        1.2        0.0      76.3        10.7       8S.0    12.3        98.1
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   32.0        0.1        4.2       10.2        2.0        0.0       48.S        0.0        0.0      9.3        4.S
0. TRAINING                                0.6        0.8        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.4        0.0        0.0      5.6        0.1
E. DEVELOPNENT SERVICES                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      S78.6      578.6        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total INSTNENT COSTS                      70.1       26.5      8S.0       296.3        3.2      578.6    18S9.7         6.9      128.5      7.4      137.4
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A, INCREENHTAL COSTS                       1.2       16.S        0.0        0.0        6.5        0.0       24.2        0.0        0.0    14.0         3.4
................................................    ............................................................._.
Total BASELINE COSTS                      71.3       43.0      885.0      296.3        9.7      578.6    1883.9         6.8      128.5      7.5      140.8
Physical ContInfencIes                   3.9        1.2       92.1       31.2        0.1        0.0      128.S
Price Contingencles                      5.2        4.9       95.3       34.0        1.4        0.0      140.8        9.0       12.7
................................................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                       80.5       49.1    1072.4       361.6       11.2      S78.6    2153.2         6.6      141.2      6.5      140.8
Taxes                                    0.9        0.6      47.0         7.0        0.0        0.0       5.5S        9.3        S.2
foreign Exchange                       70.3       26.6      615.3       316.7        3.4      387.6    1419.9         6.6       94.3
................................................. ........................................................................... ..... ......... ................... ................................... ................... ..._..........._
Values Scaled by 100000.0  1/29/1991  10:04
O <
'-IU



- 39-                              ANNEX IX
DEMOCUTIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
--DISBURSEMENTS--
IBRD FISCAL YEAR               QUARTER                  QUARTER   CUMULATIVE
FY92                      FIRST                       0.3          0.3
SECOND                      0.3          0.6
THIRD                       0.5          1.1
FOURTH                      0.8          1.9
FY93                      FIRST                       1.5          3.4
SECOND                      1.5          4.9
THIRD                       1.8          6.7
FOURTH                      1.7          8.4
FY94                      FIRST                       1.7         10.1
SECOND                      1.7         11.8
THIRD                       1.2         13.0
FOURTH                      1.0         14.0
FY95                      FIRST                       0.5         14.5
SECOND                      0.5         15.0
THIRD                       0.4         15.4
FOURTH                      0.3         15.7
FY96                      FIRST                       0.2         15.9
SECOND                      0.1         16.0



- 40 -
Annex X
Algeria: Pilot Public Health Management Project
Evaluation Indicators
I.    Proiect Imnlementation
1. Notification of new management rules to participating institutions
2. Update master plan
3. Recruit technical assistance
4. Purchase MIS, teaching and medical equipment
5. MIS implementation
6. Test indicators
7. Implement continued education
8.  Implement incentives and recruit new staff
9. Set up maintenance system
10. Completion of civil works
11. Preparation of IEC material
12. Implement studies
II.   Proiect Effectiveness
1. Trend in hospital admissions by department
2. Trend in bed occupancy
3. Trend in length of stay
4. Trend in out-patient consultations
5. Trend in number of beds per physician and nurse
6. Trend in number of consultations per center
7. Trend in number of consultation per physician/nurse
8. Trend in surgical, laboratory and radiology activity
9. Trend in immunization, prenatal, post-natal and supervised delivery
per population
10. Trend in transfers to hospitals
11. Trend in waterborne diseases reported
12. Trend in infant and maternal mortality
III. Cost Effectiveness
1. Trend in costs of hospital day per service
2. Trend in.costs of outpatient consultation
3. Trend in direct and indirect costs per service
4. Trend in costs per diagnosis
5. Trend in costs per structure
IV.    DLWlicabil1Lt
1. Affordability of project
a. comparison between incremental costs and saving in personnel,
equipment downtime, transfer outside the system
b. comparison between incremental input and incremental output
c. comparison between incremental cost and health improvement
2. Quality of services provided (trend in medical management)
3. Satisfaction of population served (yearly sample survey of
patients)



