Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15219
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3299-AL)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Himan Resources Division
Country Division I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1990)
Currency Unit      -     Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1                     DA 8.0
DA 1               -     US$o.125
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATS                Agent technique de sante (nursing assistant)
BCG                Tuberculosis vaccine
CHU                Centre hospitalier universitaire (Teaching hospital)
CNP                Conseil National de la Planification (Nat. Planning Council)
DPT                Diphteria/Pertussis/Tetanus vaccine
ENA                Ecole nationale d'administration (Training school for
administrators)
EN-EMEDI           (State medical equipment purchasing and maintenance agency)
MCH                Maternal and child health
MIS                Management information system
MOPH               Ministry of Public Health
PHC                Primary Health Care
TD                 Training department of MOPH
TS                 Technicien de sante (nurse)
TSS                Technicien superieur de sante (specialized nurse)
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Note on
Algeria-Pilot Public Health Management Project (Ln. 3299-AL)
The Algeria Pilot Public Health Management Project (Ln. 3299-AL) for US$16 million was
approved in FY91. The Project Completion Note (PCN) was prepared by the Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office. The project was canceled early in implementation; therefore, there is no Part 11.
The broad objective of the project was to improve productivity and efficiency in the Algerian
health system. This was to be achieved by improving central and local level management in the Ministry
of Public Health (MOPH). In addition, the project was to improve the quality of basic health services by
upgrading and rehabilitating selected facilities on a pilot basis in one urban health district.
Project preparation was drawn out and complicated by high rates of turnover among senior
MOPH officials, as well as by their lack of familiarity with the content and practical implications of
health sector reform and with the Bank. The resulting project design was complex and called for
substantial and difficult changes in planning and management systems, processes and attitudes. Early
implementation experience signaled Government's lack of commitment to the project. The loan did not
become effective until one year after signing. Five months after effectiveness, initial project activities
had started in only one of three pilot areas. In July 1993, following a lukewarm response to the Bank's
suggestion that Government prepare proposals to restructure the project to better reflect its current
priorities, the Bank recommended that Government request loan cancellation. Ninety-nine percent of the
loan was canceled in January 1994.
The Bank's experience with this project underscores the importance of ensuring that major
stakeholders participate in the design of reform projects. The PCN reports that participation by important
stakeholders, including the Conseil National de la Planification and leading professional and provider
networks, especially teaching hospitals, was modest, thereby reducing borrower ownership and
commitment to project success. Attempting a complex reform effort as the first Bank project in the sector
was overambitious. Project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development is rated as
negligible as key institutional objectives were not met. Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory. The
project delivered little of lasting value; sustainability is thus rated as unlikely. These ratings are
consistent with the findings presented in the PCN.
The Project Completion Note satisfactorily explains the events surrounding the aborted project.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3299-AL)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Note (the Note) for the Pilot Public Health
Management Project in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for which Loan
3299-AL in the amount of US$16.0 million equivalent was approved on March 5, 1991 and
made effective on July 29, 1992, after three postponements (from the initial effectiveness
date set for September 20, 1991).
The loan was cancelled on January 27, 1994, at the request of the Government,
following Bank's recommendation, with a balance of US$15,999,314.81.
The Note was prepared by Maryse Pierre-Louis, MN1HR of the MENA region and
reviewed by Roslyn G. Hees, Division Chief, MNlHR, Hjalte Sederlof, former task
manager, EC3HR and Rene Costa, Projects Adviser, MN1DR.
Preparation of this Note is based essentially on material in the project file, and on
conclusions of meetings with the former task manager who carried out the preparation of this
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihhout World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
PILOT PUBLIC HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan no. 3299-AL
BACKGROUND
1.    During the 1980s, and especially after the fall in oil prices on the international market
in 1986, Algeria entered an era of economic reforms aimed at ensuring greater efficiency in
resource utilization nationwide. This economic crisis has indeed created awareness of the
weaknesses of the system, which were hidden or dismissed during the period of greater
abundance. The reforms aimed at transforming the decision-making process for the efficient
allocation of resources by abandoning highly centralized planning and by giving more
importance to a market economy. A series of initiatives were implemented at that time in
the agricultural sector and the Government was interested in doing the same in the social
sectors, in order to meet efficiently the needs of a new economic environment.
2.    The Government was aware of the issues facing the health sector and of their
implications on the evolution of the health system. In particular, it realized the necessity of
ensuring greater sector efficiency while improving the quality of health care, if it wanted to
guarantee the sustainability of health gains achieved by previous investments in public health
programs. The Government's medium-term objective, which was supported by the project,
was to implement a package of sector reforms aimed at improving the management and
efficiency of the system and at controlling the rising health care costs by modifying the
financing mechanisms of the sector.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.    The project overall objective, as defined in the SAR, dated February 6, 1991, was to
support the Government's effort to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the Algerian
public health care delivery system. Conceived as a pilot project, specific objectives were: (a)
to develop management tools that would allow the Algerian Government to begin
implementing changes in the management and operation of the health system at central and
local levels; (b) to strengthen professional and in-service training in the pilot areas; and (c) to
upgrade strategic planning capabilities in the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).
4.    These objectives would be achieved through the implementation of four components:
(a)   improving resource management through the development of appropriate health
management and information systems and related epidemiologic and
performance indicators;
(b)   improving the quality of services by raising professional skills of public health
personnel through stronger pre- and in-service training for medical and para-
medical staff;



-2-
(c)   improving the utilization of project area facilities through upgrading of their
diagnostic and emergency handling capabilities and the rehabilitation of basic
systems such as electricity and water supply; and
(d)   strengthening the strategic planning and management in MOPH, including
capabilities to monitor and evaluate project results for systematic extension
nationwide of the management tools developed under the project.
5.    The project targeted three pilot areas: (a) the teaching hospital (CHU) of Bab el Oued
(Algiers); (b) the adjacent urban district of Bab el Oued; and (c) the rural wilaya of Medea
which included a general hospital, five small district level hospitals and a number of lower-
level ambulatory facilities.
PROJECT DESIGN
6.    This project was the first Bank operation in the sector in Algeria. Prior to this
project, the Bank, through its sectoral dialogue, had provided considerable support to the
government in specific areas such as the definition of a coherent population policy and the
evaluation of costs for different strategies of family planning. Improving the performance of
the health system was part of the global economic effort undertaken by the Government.
7.    The main elements of the project were identified during a sector mission in 1986 (an
informal white cover report was produced and discussed with the Government). However,
core project preparation activities only took place in 1989 and 1990. The overall preparation
process was long: (a) there was a high turnover of key personnel at MOPH, involving three
sets of ministers, general secretaries and directors of planning during this period; (b) the
content and practical implications of health care reform were relatively unfamiliar to officials
in Algeria; and (c) the World Bank was completely unknown to the sector authorities. Much
effort went into the provision of purely technical advice on various aspects of health care
delivery at both central and grassroots level, and a number of seminars were organized on
health management and financing (the first ones of their kind in Algeria). As a result, there
was good understanding and support for the project concept within MOPH despite the
changes of personnel, and at grassroots level, among both administrators and practitioners.
8.    However, despite its relatively small size (loan of US$16.0 million), the pilot project
was fairly complex, comprising a wide variety of small-scale TA and training activities and
purchase of many small equipment packages, to be implemented in four different locations
(the central MOPH and the three project sites). Its objectives were also quite ambitious,
involving substantial changes in planning and management systems, processes and attitudes.
This design was quite risky in view of the fact that this was the first Bank-supported
operation in the health sector in Algeria.



- 3-
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
9.    Despite supervision missions and extensive dialogue with the Government, the project
was never implemented. In fact, loan effectiveness did not take place until one year after
signature, despite the fact that there were no special conditions of effectiveness. This was
the first signal of lack of commitment from the Government. Moreover, the February 1993
form 590 notes that five months after loan effectiveness, initial project related activities had
started in only one of the three project zones. The two other were either plagued with major
internal management difficulties or were unwilling to collaborate with the project
implementation unit. On the other hand, this unit was not committed to carry out the project
implementation arrangements and no effort was made to organize and deliver support to the
zones and to open the project special account. To overcome these bottlenecks, the Bank and
the Govemment agreed on the following actions: (a) the govemment would confirm its
genuine commitment to implement the project as is or prepare proposals for project
restructuring. in order to have a better fit with current priorities; and (b) the Bank should be
ready to respond to any constructive attempt to overcome the situation.
10.  In July 1993, Bank Management recommended to persuade the Algerians to cancel the
project during the upcoming CPPR mission because MOPH's declared commitment never
translated into measures to remove implementation bottlenecks. This decision was judged
preferable to continuing to attempt to implement the project or to restructure it. Sector work
on health was suggested for FY94 as the basis for new lending development in the sector. In
a letter dated November 29, 1993, (attached) the Minister of Economy requested the
cancellation of the undisbursed balance of the loan.
PROJECT OUTCOME
11.   The former task manager believes that, despite this apparent failure, the project may
have had some positive impact. Especially, the value added of the preparation process should
not be discounted. Much knowledge and information was transmitted, and extensive
exchanges of views took place, during the sector work and preparation phases. This process
normally is a major contributor in terms of sustainable value, and it forms the common basis
for further dialogue and development, especially in a situation of continuous collaboration. In
the Algerian situation, this may not be the case, at least not to the same extent, given the
hiatus in the dialogue in the sector.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Why did the project fail? The following lessons are well worth considering in
designing future projects in Algeria and in relaunching the dialogue in the sector after a long
hiatus:



- 4 -
(a)   The overall political environment. The project was designed, prepared and
negotiated during a period (1987-90) of macroeconomic and political reform.
The management and financing reforms envisaged under the project would
only have been feasible under a favorable political and economic environment.
However, by the time it was signed, that environment had begun to
deteriorate, which continued through the loan cancellation. The political
instability of the early l990s (five Ministers of Health between negotiations
and effectiveness; beginnings of civil unrest), was not conducive to the kind of
sustained commitment essential to successful implementation of such a project.
To be successful, particularly as a first Bank-supported operation in the sector,
a simpler and less ambitious project would have been preferable.
(b)   The broader constituency. While the project clearly had the support of those
directly involved, the process failed to enroll key constituencies inside (see
below) and outside the sector. In particular, the CNP (Conseil National de la
Planification) did not give strong support to the project, in part because of its
innovative and reformist nature, which did not match well with the
conservative environment of the CNP, and in part because the officials
concerned in the CNP had doubts about the ability of MOPH to execute the
project. Clearly, more attention needs to be paid to ensuring broad support for
Bank's interventions from all stakeholders, not just the ones directly
concerned.
(c)   The health care constituency. In Algeria, as in many francophone countries,
the health care constituency is tripartite: the ministry, the primary and
secondary provider network and the teaching hospitals (CHU). The latter
informally, and often formally, set the tone for medical practice (including
health care remuneration and organization). In Algeria, CHUs are
exceptionally influential. The Bank initially made it a point to attempt to enroll
them in a wider reform program. This was unsuccessful, which was a major
factor in the decision to proceed with a smaller pilot project that could
function as a demonstration project of the benefits of the reforms and the role
the CHU could play in a more systematic approach to health care. The CHU
of Bab el Oued was chosen because it was newly established as a CHU and
therefore could be more amenable to experimentation. While it is impossible to
say if the demonstration would have worked, the lesson to draw is again to
carefully weigh the advantages and disadvantages of not having all the
stakeholders on board before proceeding with a project, especially in the
environment described above.
(d)   The insufficient weight of the grassroots level. While grassroots support
ownership and commitment by the direct beneficiaries of a project may be
necessary elements of project success, it does not always guarantee such
success. The highly centralized decision-making process of the system was a



major bottleneck which prevented proper implementation of a project which by
its nature required decentralized decision-making and implementation
arrangements.
(e)   MOPH staff's generally poor management capacity and unfamiliarity with
Bank procedures was clearly a significant factor which resulted in difficulties
in implementing even simple activities such as requesting a Special Account,
preparing Development Business advertisements, etc. The project
implementation unit and site coordinating units would have required intensive
technical assistance and Bank supervision to implement Bank procedures
efficiently.
(Report was distributed without the Key Lessons Learned Section)









IMAGING
Report No:      15219
Type: PCN



