Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3299 AL
(Pilot Public Health Management Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 24, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3299 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 tothis Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS: (B) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's central bank (Banque d'Algerie), 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 
1990;
      (b)   "Project Areas" means the district of Bab el Oued in the Wilaya of 
Algiers, the University Hospital (as such term is defined hereinafter) located in the 
district of Bab el Oued in the Wilaya of Algiers and the Wilaya of Medea;
      (c)   "University Hospital" means the national university hospital located in 
the district of Bab el Oued in the Wilaya of Algiers (Centre Hospitalo Universitaire);
      (d)   "Ministry of Public Health" means the ministry of the Borrower responsible 
for the planning and management of health care services within the Borrower's 
territory;
      (e)   "Strategy Letter" means the letter received by the Bank from the Borrower, 
dated January 9, 1991, setting forth the set of actions and measures for implementing 
the Borrower's long-term plan for reforming its public health sector, and 
decentralizing and improving the management and administration of health services 
within said sector;
      (f)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's fiscal years, which period coincides with the calendar year; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixteen million dollars 
($16,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
Page  3
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of he Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar
year.
 
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
                  "(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
                  "(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and public health practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall promptly ensure that the Planning Directorate of the Ministry of 
Public Health shall at all times be responsible for the overall coordination of 
Project execution, the supervision of the procurement of the goods and services 
therefor, and the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of
reports and other information thereon; said Directorate shall be responsible for the 
overall coordination of Project execution in liaison with the Borrower's three local 
Project execution entities charged with the supervision of Project execution 
activities within their respective parts of the Project Areas, and with the 
preparation and furnishing to the said Directorate of reports and other information on 
such activities. The Borrower shall at all times maintain or cause to be maintained 
the said Directorate and entities under terms of reference mutually satisfactory to 
the Bank and the Borrower.
      Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
Strategy Letter with due diligence and efficiency, and at all times take all necessary 
Page  4
measures to achieve the objectives thereof.
      (b)   Not later than June 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year 
ending December 31, 1991, representatives of the Bank and the Borrower shall meet for 
the purposes of reviewing the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the 
Project and the Strategy Letter during the period under review.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
           (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
          (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  5
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy
            Governmental Palace
            Algiers
            Democratic and Popular
              Republic of Algeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FINPLAN                 67073
                  Algiers
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ M. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                        DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF
                          ALGERIA
                        By /s/ K. Brachemi
 Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
Page  6
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                    12,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                and 100% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Consultants'              2,000,000        100%
     services and
     fellowships
     abroad
(3)  Unallocated               2,000,000
     TOTAL                    16,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; and (ii) the term "local  expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the 
effectiveness of the delivery of health care services and improving the quality 
thereof through the strengthening, on a pilot basis, of institutional capabilities in 
the planning and delivery of said services and of the operations and management of the 
University Hospital and other health care institutions serving the Borrower's district 
of Bab el Oued in the Wilaya of Algiers, the University Hospital and the Wilaya of 
Medea.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
      Carrying out of a program to restructure and strengthen the organization, 
management, operations and finances of the University Hospital and district-level 
institutions responsible for the delivery of health care services in the Project 
Areas, including the design and application of suitable management information, health 
information, epidemiological surveillance and cost accounting systems, and the 
provision of equipment and staff training required for said program.
Part B:
       Development and introduction of suitable buildings and equipment maintenance 
programs in the Project Areas, and provision of equipment and staff training required 
therefor.
Part C:
      (1)   Carrying out of a program to: (a) strengthen the para-medical training 
programs provided in the Project Areas, including the provision of equipment and 
instructional materials required therefor; and (b) develop and provide suitable 
in-service training programs for medical and para-medical staff working in the Project 
Areas.
      (2)   Carrying out of a program to: (a) strengthen the coordination among the 
Page  7
University Hospital and other institutions serving the Project Areas in their 
provision of health care services; and (b) develop and disseminate to the population 
of the Project Areas suitable health educational materials.
Part D:
      Rehabilitation and equipping of the University Hospital and other health 
facilities included in the Project Areas, and provision of vehicles and supplies, all 
as required for the proper delivery of health care services.
Part E:
      (1)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry 
of Public Health in planning and management of the health care sector, with a 
particular focus on monitoring and evaluating the activities carried out under the 
Project, including the provision of a suitable management information system and 
training required therefor; and based on such monitoring and evaluation activities, 
preparation and implementation of programs to extend the activities carried out under 
the Project to other areas within the Borrower's territory, including the provision of
equipment required therefor.
      (2)   Carrying out of studies to address specific public health sector issues to 
be agreed upon mutually by the Bank and the Borrower.
* * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
      beginning November 15, 1996
      through November 15, 2007                 665,000
On May 15, 2008                                 705,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Page  8
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria may 
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Limited International Bidding
1.    Radiology equipment and other specialized equipment for which the Bank agrees 
there are a limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$4,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at 
least three (3) qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
      Local Shopping
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
Page  9
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
      Direct Negotiations
3.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature may be 
awarded after direct negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      Consultants' services required for the carrying out of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  10
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Page  11
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
