Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER 
H560-TG
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Economic Recovery and Governance Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 8, 2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER 
H560-TG
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 8, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework. 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to ten 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,700,000) 
(variously, “Grant” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
An Additional Event of Suspension shall occur if a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
An Additional Condition of Effectiveness shall be that the Association is 
satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program 
and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Immeuble CASEF 
B.P. 387 
Lomé 
Togo 
Facsimile: 
228-221-0905 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Lomé, Republic of Togo, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TOGO 
 
By /s/ 
Adji Otèth Ayassor 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Hervé Assah 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
(i) Publication of the Recipient’s 2009 quarterly budget execution report; and 
(ii) submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of the draft 2010 budget law with a 
medium-term expenditure framework for two priority ministries (i.e., Education 
and Health). 
2. 
Availability of at least 80 percent of the Recipient’s budgetary allocations for 
poverty reduction activities (pursuant to the authorization of expenditures for the 
priority ministries) by end February 2009, and availability of the remaining 
20 percent by end October 2009. 
3. 
Installation and operation of the SIGFIP information system in the Recipient’s 
Treasury department. 
4. 
Preparation and implementation of a procedures manual for the Recipient’s 
General Finance Inspectorate (
Inspection Générale des Finances
). 
5. 
Establishment and operation of the Recipient’s Court of Accounts as evidenced 
by (a) the issuance of the implementation decree (
Décret no. 2009-049/PR 
portant application de la loi no. 98-014 du 10 juillet 1998 relative à 
l’organisation et au fonctionnement de la Cour des comptes
)
of an organic law 
creating such court; (b) the adoption of such organic law (
Loi Organique 
no. 2009-003 Portant Statut des Magistrats de la Cour des Comptes
)
which 
defines the standing of such court; and (c) the provision of adequate budget 
therefor. 
6. 
Establishment and operation of the General Procurement Department; and 
creation of commissions to conduct ex-ante procurement control (
Service de 
contrôle des marchés publics - SCMP
)
in at least five priority ministries and the 
Lomé municipal office. 
7. 
Preparation of an assessment report on NSCT’s management information and 
cost accounting system that proposes the design for a new accounting system 
software. 
8. 
Adoption by the main stakeholders of a regulatory framework for the cotton 
sector that specifies the roles, responsibilities and obligations of sector 
stakeholders and mechanisms to ensure representation of local producers within 
the governing board of the NSCT. 
Page  7
6
9. 
Adoption of the legal and institutional framework with the objective of becoming 
a
candidate country within the 
EITI 
as evidenced by the issuance of (a) a decree 
(
Décret no. 2010-024/PR portant création, attributions, composition, 
organisation et fonctionnement des organes de mise en œuvre de l’Initiative pour 
la Transparence des Industries Extractives (ITIE)
)
creating one or more 
committees for including participants from the civil society, government and 
extractive industry; and (b) a decree (
Décret no. 2010-028/PR portant 
nomination du Coordinateur de l’Initiative pour la Transparence des Industries 
Extractives (ITIE)
)
nominating a national coordinator. 
10. 
Publication of the reconciliation results of the 2008
 
revenues generated from 
phosphate sales with revenues received by the Recipient’s Treasury that year. 
11. 
(i) Preparation of a time-bound plan for the settlement of public and para-public 
arrears which are due and payable to CEET and identification of measures to 
prevent further accumulation of arrears, and (ii) settlement of the Recipient’s 
arrears and other payment obligations due to CEET (through securitization). 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
10, 700,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,700,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless 
the Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the 
Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
Page  8
7
D. 
Deposit of Financing Amounts
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter 
maintain 
a
dedicated deposit account (“Deposit Account”) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into the Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted 
for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.   
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“CEET” means the 
Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo,
 the public utility 
established in accordance with the Recipient’s Decree No. 2006-013/PR dated 
February 22, 2006 and operating under the laws of the Recipient, and in charge 
of the distribution of electricity in the Recipient’s territory 
2. 
“Deposit Accounts” means the dedicated deposit account referred to in 
Section II.D.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
3. “EITI” 
means 
the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of 
governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international 
organizations 
which aims to strengthen governance by improving transparency 
and accountability in the extractives sector.  
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Page  10
9
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
Page  11
10
 
6. 
“NSCT” means the 
Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo
,
a
cotton ginning and 
marketing company es
tablished in the Recipient’s territory pursuant to Decree 
No. 2009-011/PR of January 23, 2009.  
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated March 23, 2010 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
8. 
“SIGFIP” means the Recipient’s integrated public finance management system 
(
système intégré de gestion des finances publiques
).  
9. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
Page  12
11
 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  13
12
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
