                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003520



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-4717)

                                          ON A

                                     CREDIT


                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3 MILLION

                        (US$4.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE

                                      FOR A

 SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE CAPACITY BUILDING AND ECONOMIC
                    GOVERNANCE PROJECT

                                   July 31, 2015




Trade & Competitiveness Global Practice
Cabo Verde Country Management Unit
Africa Region
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective July 30, 2015)

                             Currency Unit = SDR
                               1.00 = US$1.3943
                            US$1.00 = SDR 0.717171

           FISCAL YEAR (Cabo Verde): January 1 – December 31, 2015


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ADEI         Agency for Entrepreneurial Development and Innovation (Agência para o
              Desenvolvimento Empresarial e Innovação)
 AfDB         African Development Bank
 ARAP         Regulatory Agency for Public Procurement (Agência de Regulamentação das
              Aquisições Públicas)
 BCV          Central Bank of Cabo Verde (Banco de Cabo Verde)
 BDS          Business Development Services
 CBPPSP       Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
 CCIASB       Chamber of Commerce of Barlovento (Câmara de Comércio, Indústria,
              Agricultura e Serviços de Barlavento)
 CCISS        Chamber of Commerce of Sotavento (Câmara de Comércio, Indústria e Serviços
              de Sotavento)
 CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
 CI           Cabo Verde Investment Promotion Agency (Agência Caboverdiana de Promoção
              de Investimentos)
 CPIA         Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
 CPIP         Country Procurement Issues Paper
 CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
 CVE          Cabo Verde Escudos
 DA           Designated Account
 DB           Doing Business
 DGPCP        Procurement Directorate (Direcção-Geral do Patrimonio e da Contratação
              Pública)
 DGPOG        Directorate for Planning Budget and Management (Direcção-Geral de
              Planeamento, Orçamento e Gestão)
 ELECTRA      Water and Electricity Company (Empresa de Electricidade e Agua)
 ENAPOR       Cabo Verdean Port Authority (Empresa Nacional de Administração dos Portos)
 ETS          Economic Transformation Strategy
 EU           European Union
 FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
 FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
 G&CP         Growth and Competitiveness Project


                                        ii
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GNI        Gross National Income
GoCV       Government of Cabo Verde
GPN        General Procurement Notice
GPRSP      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA        Investment Climate Assessment
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT        Information and Communications Technology
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IFI        International Financial Institution
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IFRS       International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INE        National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estatística)
ISA        International Standards on Auditing
LDC        Least Developed Country
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MCA        Millennium Challenge Account
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MGF        Matching Grant Fund
MGPG       Matching Grant Procedures and Guidelines
MIC        Middle Income Country
MIGA       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MECG       Ministry of Economy, Competitiveness and Growth
MIT        Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NOSi       Operational Nucleus of the Information Society (Núcleo Operacional da Sociedade
           de Informação)
NPV        Net Present Value
OECD/DAC   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development/Development
           Assistance Committee
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Program
PER        Public Expenditure Review


                                      iii
PFM       Public Financial Management
POM       Project Operational Manual
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSC       Project Steering Committee
PSI       Policy Support Instrument
PU        Project Unit
QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QUIBB     Unified Questionnaire of Basic Wellbeing Indicators (Questionário Unificado de
          Indicadores Básicos de Bem-Estar)
RFP       Request for Proposal
SBD       Standard Bidding Document
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SIL       Specific Investment Loan
SME       Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
TA        Technical Assistance
TAL       Technical Assistance Loan
TACV      National Airline of Cabo Verde (Transportes Aéreos de Cabo Verde)
TdC       Court of Auditors (Tribunal das Contas)
TVET      Technical, Vocational and Educational Training
UGA       Procurement Management Unit (Unidade de Gestão Administrativa)
UGAC      Procurement Directorate (Unidade de Gestão de Aquisições Centralizadas)
UCRE      State Reform Coordination Unit (Unidade de Coordenação e Reforma do Estado)
UNOTUR    National Union of Tourism Operators of Cabo Verde (União Nacional dos
          Operadores Turísticos de Cabo Verde)
VAT       Value Added Tax
WA        Withdrawal Application
WTO       World Trade Organization


                        Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                      Country Director: Vera Songwe
         Senior Global Practice Director Anabel Gonzalez
                       Sector Manager: John F. Speakman
                  Project Team Leader: Kofi Boateng-Agyen
                     ICR Team Leader: Penelope Demetra Fidas




                                     iv
                                      REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE

      SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE CAPACITY BUILDING AND
                ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE PROJECT


                                                         Contents

A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... vi 
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. vi 
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... vi 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ......................................................................................... vii 
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................. vii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................... viii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... x 
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ xi 
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. xi 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 31 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 31 
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 34 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 36 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 37 
Annex 2. Achievement of PDO outcomes in detail ...................................................... 27 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 44 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 52 
Annex 5a. Summary of Borrower's ICR ....................................................................... 53 
Annex 5b: Borrower’s comments on the ICR .............................................................. 65 
Annex 6: Report of the M&E Specialist engaged to review the M&E framework ...... 67 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 75 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 76 
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 77 




                                                               v
A. Basic Information
                                                                           CV-SME Capacity
Country:                Cabo Verde               Project Name:             Building and Economic
                                                                           Governance
Project ID:             P107456                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-47170
ICR Date:               07/28/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           VERDE
Original Total
                        XDR 3.00M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 2.96M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 2.96M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/20/2009     Effectiveness:              11/30/2010       11/30/2010
                                                                                  11/29/2012
Appraisal:            10/20/2009     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  05/17/2014
Approval:             04/29/2010     Mid-term Review:            05/28/2012       08/26/2013
                                     Closing:                    07/31/2014       01/31/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     27                  27
Public administration- Financial Sector                               32                  32
SME Finance                                                           41                  41


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            32                  32
Other Private Sector Development                                      22                  22
Other economic management                                             16                  16
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      21                  21
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                      9                  9

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Louise J. Cord                       Habib M. Fetini
Practice
                           John F. Speakman                     Iradj A. Alikhani
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Kofi-Boateng Agyen                   Alvaro S. Gonzalez
ICR Team Leader:           Kofi-Boateng Agyen
ICR Primary Author:        Penelope Demetra Fidas




                                                vii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's overall objective is “to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce the cost
of doing business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance
opportunities of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement”.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval            Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a business license from 24 to 7
Value
quantitative or   24                           7                    7            8
Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                      4/30/10              4/30/10      1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          The target was to reduce the time by 71%. The project reduced the time by 67%.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Reduce the cost of registering property (as % of property value) by 40%
Value
quantitative or   7.7%                         4.6%                 4.6%         3.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                      4/30/10              4/30/10      1/31/15
Comments
                  The target was to reduce the cost by 40%. The project surpassed this and achieved a
(incl. %
                  52% reduction.
achievement)
                  Increase the # of SMEs that compete for contracts through the public procurement
Indicator 3 :
                  process from 15 to 80 over the lifetime of the project.
Value
quantitative or   15                           80                   30           444
Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                      4/30/10              11/29/12     1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          1,480% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Create a one-stop shop for foreign investments.
Value
quantitative or   0                            N/A                  1            1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                      4/30/10              4/30/10      1/31/15
Comments
                  100% achieved.
(incl. %

                                                viii
achievement)
                  Diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other
Indicator 5 :     sectors in Cape Verde, as measured by a 5% decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI)
                  of concentration of foreign direct investment (FDI)
Value
                                                                    5% decline in
quantitative or   N/A                           5% decline in HHI                 N/A
                                                                    HHI
Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                     4/30/10              4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments          This indicator was never measured and dropped through discussions with the GoCV
(incl. %          approximately one year before project close. It was later replaced with indicator 4
achievement)      above.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                   approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                  documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Indirect project beneficiaries (people gainfully employed)
Value
(quantitative     177 297                   196 000            196 000            185 486
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10            4/30/10            1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          N/A
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Reduce number of steps (to obtain a business license)
Value
(quantitative     9                         3                  3                  8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10            4/30/10            1/31/15
Comments
                  The target was to reduce the steps by 66%. The project reduced the steps by
(incl. %
                  11%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Reduce number of steps (to register property) by 50%
Value
(quantitative     6                         3                  3                  6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10            4/30/10            1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          N/A
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Reduce number of days to register property by 90%
Value
(quantitative     73                        7                  7                  22
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10           4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments          The target was to reduce the time by 90%. The project reduced the time by 70%.

                                                 ix
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Higher average one year growth in sales revenue of Matching Grant beneficiaries
Indicator 5 :
                  against control group
Value
                                            7.5% above          7.5% above
(quantitative     No Data                                                     43%
                                            control group       control group
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10             4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          The project achieved 573% of the target.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of beneficiaries of the Matching Grant Fund.
Value
(quantitative     0                         100                 100             136
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10             4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          The project surpassed the target by 36%.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Direct project beneficiaries, number (of which female %)[Matching Grant Fund]
Number
                  15                        20                  20              26
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10             4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          The project surpassed the target by 73%.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Indirect project beneficiaries, of which female (% of labor force)
Value
(quantitative     45%                       45%                 45%             45.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     4/30/10                   4/30/10             4/30/10         1/31/15
Comments
(incl. %          N/A
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.00
                              Moderately
  2     03/25/2011                                  Unsatisfactory                         0.00
                            Unsatisfactory
  3     11/05/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   0.45
  4     06/18/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   1.13
  5     12/28/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   1.69
  6     05/22/2013           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          2.76

                                                  x
  7       12/23/2013       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  2.92
  8       06/29/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           3.05
  9       01/14/2015   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  4.38

H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings    Amount
                   Board
Restructuring                    at       Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                  Approved
   Date(s)                  Restructuring Restructuring       Key Changes Made
                 PDO Change
                              DO     IP in USD millions
                                                        Decrease of target of one PDO
                                                        indicator;     reallocation   of
                                                        funding of several expenditure
  11/29/2012         N        MS    MS          1.69
                                                        categories (less than 15% of the
                                                        original amounts) to adapt to
                                                        changing needs of the GoCV.
                                                        Closing date extended by six
                                                        months to January 31, 2015 from
                                                        July 31, 2014 to allow for
  05/17/2014         N         S      S         3.05
                                                        completion of key activities
                                                        towards achievement of the
                                                        PDO.

I. Disbursement Profile




I.i. Actual disbursement amounts, by Component

         Component 1: US$ 1,865,284
         Component 2: US$ 1,706,281
         Component 3: US$ 679,011

                                             xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector issues

1.     Cabo Verde is an archipelago of approximately 500,000 inhabitants located nearly
300 miles from the western coast of Senegal. Its economy is small; at the time of project
appraisal, gross domestic product (GDP) was just under US$1.4 billion. The islands
possess limited mineral resources and barely 10 percent of the land is arable.

2.      In spite of these geographical and natural resource disadvantages, in the period
leading up to the project, Cabo Verde had grown relatively rapidly and poverty had fallen
significantly. Growth in 1998-2007 averaged 7.2 percent per year, driven largely by: (i)
strong public and private investment, with significant participation of foreign direct
investment (FDI), directed largely towards the development of infrastructure and tourism;
and (ii) exports, primarily tourism. As a result of this growth, incomes rose and poverty
fell dramatically. By 2008, gross national income (GNI) per capita reached US$3,130.

3.      The global economic crisis resulted in a decline in Cabo Verde’s GDP growth rate
to 3.5 percent in 2009. The adverse effects of the crisis were felt particularly in relation to
FDI, private consumption and external demand. Foreign direct investment was 54 percent
lower in the first semester of 2009 than in the first semester of 2008, for various crisis-
related reasons such as tighter credit in countries of origin. The global economic slowdown
also affected private consumption and external demand, especially tourism. While tourism
grew 7.8 percent in 2008, it declined by approximately 33 percent in the first semester of
2009 compared to the first semester of 2008, as a result of the recession in the Euro area
(home of the vast majority of tourists to Cabo Verde.)

4.      External shocks from the global crisis reinforced the need for Cabo Verde to
continue the reform program embodied in its Economic Transformation Strategy (ETS).
The ETS was developed in 2001 and grounded in extensive dialogue at the national level,
and constituted the foundation for Cabo Verde’s first Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy Program (GPRSP) for 2006-2007 and its current GPRSP II for 2008-11. The ETS
sought to take advantage of Cabo Verde’s geo-strategic position and its natural and cultural
assets by promoting Cabo Verde as a multi-purpose service center, with a combination of
hub services for transshipment and distribution, fish processing and financial services, in
addition to building on its growing tourism business—especially to serve the European
market in light of Cabo Verde’s favorable location for this market. The strategy, therefore,
focused on ensuring consistent broad-based growth by expanding and diversifying the
nation’s productive base and deepening reforms and investments that would serve to build
a more competitive economy.

5.   In order to promote economic transformation, the Government of Cabo Verde
(GoCV) intended to create a first-class business-enabling environment. There was

                                              1
recognition that transforming the economy meant reinvigorating new sectors, incorporating
new regions of the country, and integrating groups within society that had been largely left
out of the previous economic gains. The GoCV also acknowledged that the best way to get
unincorporated sectors, regions and social groups to benefit from this growth was to
undertake business environment reforms designed to reduce or eliminate barriers that: (i)
held back workers from participating in the labor force; (ii) prevented new businesses from
emerging; and (iii) kept unexploited resources and lands from being used in productive
economic activity.

6.      Despite specific improvements, progress was still needed in key aspects of the
business environment. Cabo Verde ranked 146 out of 183 countries in the World Bank’s
2010 Doing Business report. While these overarching indicators did not reflect several
well-functioning aspects of the business environment (for example, Cabo Verde ranked
38th out of 183 countries on the ease of enforcing contracts), continued efforts to improve
were still required. These included: (i) reducing the costs of starting and licensing a
business, (ii) making it easier and less costly to register property that can be used as
collateral, and (iii) introducing insolvency procedures. During the design stage, and using
these strategy documents as a roadmap—the Fifth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
(PRSC V) approved in December 2009, the Economic Transformation Strategy, and the
Investment Climate Assessment of 2006—the team found these to be most prescient
external and internal constraints to Caboverdean SMEs:
      Small and Medium Enterprises’ (SMEs) relatively poor access to finance required
       attention, though it was perhaps not a supply-side problem.
      The effects of a relatively burdensome property registry system and the lack of
       well-established and clear insolvency procedures were important factors in
       constraining access to credit for SMEs.
      The business development service market in Cabo Verde was relatively small, not
       sufficiently sophisticated, and not well adapted to the more modest needs of SMEs.
      The responsibility for planning and organizing markets so that they function for
       SMEs largely rested with a key set of public sector institutions that were not
       prepared to fulfill this mandate, particularly the Directorate of Tourism in the
       Ministry of Economy, Competitiveness and Growth (MECG) and the investment
       promotion agency, Agência Caboverdiana de Promoção de Investimentos (CI),
       among others.
      Procurement by the public sector offered room for improvement in terms of
       providing more opportunities to SMEs, even as the procurement reform agenda
       continued to enhance efficiency and transparency.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

7.     In requesting this project, the GoCV invited IDA to continue its long-standing
partnership with Cabo Verde in private sector development. At the request of the GoCV,
the Bank program became more focused on competitiveness issues, which were at the core
of the next three policy-based operations, starting with the Fifth Poverty Reduction

                                             2
Strategy Credit (PRSC V) approved in December 2009. The PRSC series was to continue
to be IDA’s main instrument for supporting reforms in public financial management and
strengthening public administration, as in the previous series, but the new series was to
include an increased emphasis on improving the business environment. This operation was
to provide technical assistance accompanying the new PRSC series and would address a
key concern of the authorities, namely to improve access to opportunities for SMEs—by
addressing constraints to accessing financial sector resources and stimulating the growth
of a market for business development services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.      The objective of the project was “to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce
the cost of doing business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and
enhance opportunities of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement,” as
noted in both the approved PAD and the financing agreement.

9.     The outcome indicators at the time of appraisal were:

1. Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a business license from 24 to 7;
2. Reduce the cost of registering property (as percent of property value) by 40 percent;
3. Diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors
   in Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI) of
   concentration of FDI; and
4. Increase the number of SMEs that bid in the public procurement process, as a result of
   the adoption of new procurement policies, from 15 (estimated) to 80, over the life of
   the project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.    The project's overall objective as agreed in the PAD and the legal agreement was
maintained throughout the two Level 2 restructurings, and never formally revised.

11.     However, it should be noted that a different version of the PDO was stated in every
Implementation Status Report and in both Restructuring Papers, notably, “The project's
overall objective is to improve the performance of small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
and the transparency and efficiency of public sector governance”. It seems that this change
occurred inadvertently based on informal discussions. It is notable that the two versions of
the PDO differ in terms of their specificity of objectives (the first being more specific and
having measurable results, while the second is more general and does not lend itself to
accurate measurement.). In fact, both versions of the PDO are supported by the components
and activities of this project. This ICR evaluates the Project against the original.

12.     As far as PDO indicators are concerned, three out of four remained the same as
originally approved. The indicator, “Diversify the points of destination of foreign

                                             3
investments in tourism and other sectors in Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline
in the Herfindahl index (HHI) of concentration of FDI” was discontinued (without formal
elimination) during the implementation period as it was deemed to be insufficiently
attributable to the project. In the last year of implementation, through discussions with the
GoCV, a new indicator was informally introduced, i.e., “creation of a one-stop shop for
foreign investments.” Furthermore, the target for the indicator “increase the number of
SMEs that bid in the public procurement process, from 15 (estimated) to 80, over the life
of the project” was eventually lowered to 30 at the first project restructuring in May 2012.
The target to attract that many SMEs to participate in the public procurement process - a
new and unfamiliar activity for most SMEs - turned out to be overly ambitious. Therefore,
the PCU and ARAP, with the team’s support, took advantage of the opportunity provided
by the first restructuring to make this target more realistic, based on initial baseline reports.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The main beneficiaries of the project were Cabo Verdean SMEs; additional
beneficiaries included: the remainder of the universe of local firms, foreign firms interested
in investing in Cabo Verde, and selected direct beneficiaries of project support within the
GoCV (i.e., ARAP, CI, Chambers of Commerce, the Directorate of Tourism in the MECG;
the MoF; NOSi; and later ADEI was also included.)

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.     The project was envisaged to be implemented over four years to assist the
Government in its efforts to reduce the cost of doing business, diversify the target regions
receiving foreign investments and enhance opportunities of small and medium enterprises
to access public procurement. The components and specific activities put in place to
achieve this PDO also contributed towards the achievement of the PDO that is stated in the
ISRs—to improve the performance of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and the
transparency and efficiency of public sector governance. The components, their original
allocations and actual disbursements are as follows:

     Component 1: Enhancing SME business opportunities (US$ 1.85 million allocated;
      US$ 1.865 million disbursed) Support investment climate reforms and help
      improve small and medium enterprise access to services. This component included
      a matching grants program.

     Component 2: Improving Government Capacity (US$ 2.15 million allocated; US$
      1.7 million disbursed) Support selected reforms and institutions which are critical
      to improving the transparency, efficiency and investment planning of the public
      sector.

     Component 3: Supporting Project Implementation (US$ 0.5 million allocated; US$
      0.679 disbursed) Finance consulting services as required for project monitoring and
      evaluation; project audits and assistance to implementing agencies in technical
      matters.

                                               4
1.6 Revised Components

15.      The components remained the same throughout the project lifetime; however, some
activities were modified therein. These are described in Section 2.2 below.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     The activities in Components 1 and 2 were modified, though not significantly; the
target of a key performance indicator was lowered as described above. The project was
also granted a 6-month extension. These are described in further detail in the
implementation Section 2.2.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     Project preparation was mostly sound: design quality considered WBG previous
work, studies, strategies, as well as the priorities of the GoCV at the time – specifically, to
address competitiveness issues by improving the business environment and supporting
SMEs’ access to finance. Several shortcomings occurred that are described in Section 3.1
under ‘design.’ Nevertheless, the team took into account lessons of earlier operations; they
identified the risks and devised plans or provided information to ensure they were
mitigated; and they supported a participatory process to ensure the design responded to its
intended beneficiaries. Importantly, the team used well-adapted and contextually sound
approaches in the design of the matching grants system that contributed to its success (as
measured by its results, see Section 3).

18.     The project built on previous WBG private sector development projects since 1992
and more recently over the preceding twelve years provided by IDA via two technical
assistance operations: the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project of 1998
(CV-Cr. 31210), and the concurrent Growth and Competitiveness Project of 2003 (G&CP),
(CV-Cr. 37550), for which supplemental financing was approved in 2007 (CV-Cr. 37551).
These two operations assisted the Government with investment climate reforms, technical
support to CI and its predecessor (PROMEX, the Center for the Promotion of Tourism
Investment and Exports) related to investment promotion, direct support to the private
sector through the Chambers of Commerce (which are the primary interlocutors between
the private sector and the Government), and assistance to promote a well-functioning
financial sector.

19.     Moreover, the technical assistance (TA) in this project was underpinned by an
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) conducted in 2006 that helped to define the business
climate reform agenda, and a 2008 Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) prepared
together with the IMF, that provided a diagnosis and agenda of reforms in the financial
sector.



                                              5
Incorporation of lessons learned from previous projects

20.    The project incorporated important lessons from previous WBG projects as well as
the operational context of Cabo Verde:

 Complementarities in interventions: Project components should be complementary so
  that the impact of the project can be enhanced and efficiencies realized.

 Minimizing complexity: Experience with private sector projects in Africa pointed to
  the importance of a simple design, considering the implementation capacity of the
  agencies involved.

 Building capacity for reforms: The project design reflected the experience that for
  policy reforms to have an impact, they should be properly implemented. Therefore, the
  focus of the business environment component was on strengthening public sector
  capacity in pivotal institutions to implement investment climate reforms.

 Donor coordination: To minimize the possibility of overlapping or duplication, and to
  benefit from synergies where possible, the team coordinated its work with key donors
  involved in the PRSC series and competitiveness issues, including the European Union
  (EU), as well as Portugal and Spain, and finally the Millennium Challenge Account
  (MCA) of the United States.

 SMEs as the appropriate target group: The team considered lessons from literature,
  demonstrating that SMEs not only report higher financing obstacles than large firms,
  but the effect of these financing constraints is stronger for SMEs than for large firms.

 Features of a successful Matching Grant program: The project considered best practices
  in matching grants programs previously supported by the WBG, such as the 50 percent
  subsidy to firms and the placement of the program outside of the public sector in order
  to be seen as independent and commercial in its approach.

Quality of risk assessment

21.     The overall risk to the project was appropriately deemed “moderate” at the approval
stage. This assessment was composed of eight separate risks identified to the project, all of
them moderate. In some cases, the team devised mitigation plans for each of these risks,
mainly focused on capacity building, consultations with key stakeholders, and a plan of
action in case such measures were ineffective. In other cases, additional information was
provided to demonstrate that the risk was not as high as perceived. For example, the risks
of procurement and financial management were rated as moderate. The team proposed to
mitigate these risks from several angles. Firstly, the Government was encouraged to use
experienced PCU staff of the concurrent project (Growth and Competitiveness) and to
provide training to project staff in WB procedures. In addition, the project proposed support
to make fully operational the new procurement institutional framework and ensure that the



                                             6
national public procurement training program would be implemented to strengthen the
capacity of ministries and procurement control units, including the “Tribunal das Contas.’’

Adequacy of participatory processes

22.       The team further mitigated the overall risk through adequate stakeholder
consultations. With the aim of informing the preparation of the project design, the team
consulted other donors working in the private sector development space, all proposed
public sector beneficiary entities, as well as a number of private sector representatives.
Donors included the African Development Bank, the European Union, the bilateral aid
agencies of Spain and Portugal, as well as the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA.)
Public sector agencies included: CI, the Directorate of Tourism in the MECG and the MoF;
the property registry; the Casa da Cidadao; and the customs administration and port
authority. Together these entities identified the key constraints to the business environment
in Cabo Verde and suggested appropriate remedies that would be included in the project
activities. These included: (i) reducing the costs of starting and licensing a business, (ii)
making it easier and less costly to register property that could be used as collateral, and
(iii) introducing formal insolvency procedures. Other specific agencies were consulted in-
depth to identify the key capacity constraints to fulfilling their mandate—for example, CI,
the Directorate of Tourism and ARAP. Corresponding support was then included in the
project to release these constraints. The Chambers of Commerce of Sotovento and
Barlavento, which together effectively represent the Caboverdean private sector, were
consulted for the overall project design, as well as specific inputs to plan the eligibility
criteria and implementation of the matching grants program (Growth and Competitiveness
Fund, FCC.) Through the general consultations, the Chambers provided feedback on the
most prescient constraints to Caboverdean SMEs. Access to finance, the lack of business
skills of SMEs, and moreover the dearth of business development services for SMEs
available in the country arose as some of the most important issues that could be addressed
by the project.

2.2 Implementation

23.     While the WBG Board had approved the project on April 30, 2010, seven months
passed before the GoCV fully complied with the conditions of effectiveness and the project
became effective on November 30, 2010. Further delays occurred as a result of an election
that occupied the Government's attention, as well as internal GoCV discussions on the
staffing of the Project Unit. Due to these issues, the project was flagged as a problem
project in 2010. The GoCV later complied with all dated covenants, disbursement and
withdrawal conditions by November 2011.

24.      The team and the PCU worked together to adjust the project after these delays had
occurred in order to continue progress towards implementation and achieving the PDO. By
November 2011, the GoCV requested a Level-2 restructuring of the project to adjust the
activities, while maintaining the PDO and original components, as well as the results
framework. Furthermore, the midterm review was delayed by over one year, from May
2012 to August 2013, due to these implementation challenges at the outset. Finally, a

                                             7
second Level-2 restructuring took place, at the request of the GoCV, to extend the project
by six months from a closing date of July 31, 2014 to January 31, 2015.

25.     In view of the delayed implementation of the project, the GoCV had already
financed a number of activities so as not to impede its national development agenda. Project
activities were therefore adjusted to fund follow-on activities to those referred to in the
original PAD. Furthermore, the elections that contributed to delays in the full
implementation of the project led to a change in leadership in many of the agencies that
were project beneficiaries; namely, CI and the DGT installed a new president and general
director, respectively. Changes to the activities supported by the Project for these two
implementing agencies were modified by the GoCV. Note that the Project Steering
Committee carefully reviewed all proposed changes to be included in the restructuring. The
changes made in order to resolve the implementation issues are described below, by
component.

26.      Component 1:

      a. The adjusted support to the property registration and insolvency systems included
         (i) scanning, indexing and digitization of paper-based archives of property
         registries; and (ii) development of information systems software, deployment and
         hardware acquisition (US$0.54 million). The above activities replaced the
         originally envisaged reforms of insolvency and property registry regimes, and the
         establishment of an electronic system to register property, which the GoCV had
         already financed with other non-Credit resources. Training of staff responsible for
         the implementation of such reforms and members of the judiciary continued to be
         supported.

      b. Provision of support through and to ADEI, for the management of business
         development services and deepening incubation under the ongoing National
         Incubation Network program, included consultancy services, training, and outreach.

      c. Finally, additional support was provided to the Chambers of Commerce to
         coordinate assistance to SMEs that required certification services but were unable
         to access assistance under the Matching Grants Program (US$0.24 million).

27.      Component 2:

      a. The modifications to Component 2 aimed to improve the GoCV’s capacity for
         investment planning by selected public sector institutions. The provision of studies
         and advice through the project were complemented by the establishment of a
         functional “One-Stop-shop” in the Caboverdean Investment Promotion Agency
         (CI). At the Directorate of Tourism (DGT), rather than technical assistance, support
         was redirected towards capacity-building for staff of the DGT, as well as training
         and tourism promotion in collaboration with municipal governments, Chambers of
         Commerce and other entities linked to tourism promotion (US$0.350 million).



                                              8
      b. The M&E of the Matching Grant Facility was modified. Given the number of
         applications received during this first phase, the agreed randomized control trials
         (RCT) were deemed infeasible by the Ministry of Finance (MoF.) Instead the MoF
         proposed a different impact evaluation method to assess the results of the Facility,
         based on data provided by the National Institute of Statistics (INE) that would
         compare beneficiary with non-beneficiary firms.

28.      Component 3:

      a. Limited civil works were provided within the PCU’s premises to enhance its ability
         to manage the project effectively.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     The M&E design focused on tracking of project activities and their intended results,
with the outcome being a nearly sufficient quantitative account of the project’s
achievements. Reporting formats were defined by the project’s targets and indicators. In
addition to routine data collection by the PCU and the project team, INE was engaged to
provide detailed data on the firm-level outcomes of the matching grants program, both on
the beneficiaries as well as non-beneficiaries for comparison. Regarding the business
environment reforms, UCRE was particularly proactive in maintaining updates on progress
and provided extensive data (mostly from published indicators such as Doing Business and
the Heritage Foundation, among others), descriptions and presentations to the PCU and
project team. The PCU was generally consistent in obtaining regular reports from each
beneficiary agency in addition to INE data on individual beneficiaries in Component 1 and
systematically provided a summary of progress across all indicators to the team.

30.     Note that while an impact evaluation was suggested at the start of the project to
rigorously assess the impact of the matching grants program, the idea was later scrapped
due to the insufficient number of grant applicants with which to conduct a randomized
control trial.1 In place of an impact evaluation, the GoCV opted for rigorous data collection
by INE, on both beneficiary and a comparable group of non-beneficiary firms, to serve as
a second-best counterfactual to assess the program’s impact. As INE did not have the
capacity to collect information on job creation and other MG outcomes at the firm level,
the teams opted to include economy-level indicators on jobs and women’s participation in
the labor force, even though these were less attributable to the project.

31.     Nevertheless, the PCU and the project team collaborated closely to monitor the
regular data reports on the progress of the activities. The PCU and team proactively shared


1
  The impact evaluation was indeed considered and supported at the outset by DEC in the World Bank. The
failure to realize this impact evaluation later served as a source of lessons learned in the published paper:
Campos, Francisco; Coville, Aidan; Fernandes, Ana M.; Goldstein, Markus; McKenzie, David. Learning
from the Experiments that Never Happened : Lessons from Trying to Conduct Randomized Evaluations of
Matching Grant Programs in Africa © World Bank, published in the Journal of the Japanese and
International Economies(2014) 2014-01-08 CC By-NC-ND 3.0 IGO
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo

                                                     9
this data and collaborated with WBG internal as well as external stakeholders to ensure
that it was used to further inform policy and encourage reforms. For example, the progress
reports were regularly shared with the Cabo Verde Budget Support Group, in particular the
DPO team. The DPO later incorporated triggers based on this data, such as the
establishment of a one-stop shop for investment at CI. Externally, the data was shared with
the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA.) Once the MCA saw the positive results
attained through the digitization of the Praia and Sal property registries, it decided to extend
support to roll out the system to all other islands.

32.     There were two important shortcomings in the M&E framework. Three indicators
were included that in retrospect cannot be attributed to the project; and the lack of accurate
baseline data for one indicator led to a miscalculated target. The PDO indicator “Diversify
the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in Cabo Verde”
as measured by a 5-point decline in the Herfindahl Index (HHI) of foreign direct investment
(FDI) was originally included to reflect the intended results of support to Cabo Verde
Investimentos (CI). During the design stage, it was expected that support to CI would assist
the GoCV to achieve its goal to diversify FDI entering the country, in terms of both sectors
and islands. However, after discussions with the GoCV, this indicator was informally
scrapped within four months of project close, when the GoCV, the team and the PCU
realized that the link between the Project’s input and this intended outcome was too tenuous
to form the basis for a PDO indicator. Indeed, FDI depends on too many factors beyond
the influence of the project or the GoCV, such as global macroeconomic trends, the
resources and labor available in the local economy, and moreover, the size and location of
the Caboverdean market. In the last ISR document from January 2015, a new indicator was
(informally) introduced, measuring the establishment a one-stop shop for international
investment, to fill the gap.

33.     Two intermediate indicators were also found to be too weakly linked to the project’s
inputs: “Indirect project beneficiaries (people gainfully employed)” and “Indirect project
beneficiaries of which female (% of labor force.)” As mentioned above, these were
included in the absence of an impact evaluation and meant as a second-best solution to
reflect the expected job creation—particularly for women—as a result of the matching
grants program, FDI promotion, and business environment reforms to ease firm entry and
operations. However, national employment figures can be considered aggregate indicators
of a number of factors, many of which are beyond the project’s inputs. Firstly, the matching
grants program reached 136 beneficiary SMEs, which is just 1.5 percent of the total SME
population. Moreover, job creation data was not collected on these 136 firms. Secondly,
the link between business environment reforms and job creation is subject to a number of
factors outside of the project’s scope, as is the link between support for investment
promotion and realized investments, and the jobs expected to be created from them. Finally,
the national level of female employment could be expected to be minimally impacted by
the project, insofar as 26 of the matching grant beneficiaries were women and given the
hypothesis that a complex business environment disproportionally affects women because




                                              10
they are more time-poor than men.2 Hence, reforms should encourage more women to enter
the formal sector (and labor market.) However, many factors unrelated to the project—
ranging from education to fertility rates, to labor regulations, availability of childcare, and
others—are more likely to impact the national level of female participation in the labor
market. Therefore these indicators were not sufficiently attributable to the project and will
not be evaluated nor discussed further.

34.      The second shortcoming in the M&E framework was the miscalculation of the
target of the PDO indicator “Increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts
through the public procurement process from 15 to 80 over the life of the project” due to
the lack of readiness to set an accurate baseline. The team and PCU expected that upon
project implementation, there would be accurate baseline data on which to establish a target
in the M&E framework. However, the estimate differed during implementation: the
baseline was estimated to be 15 and the target was first set at 80, then decreased to 30 at
the first restructuring, yet the final aggregate number achieved was 444. In retrospect, the
team and the PCU stated that the baseline was underestimated and the target should
therefore have been more ambitious.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.     Safeguards: The project financed consulting services, training and equipment,
materials and supplies, the provision which were not expected to have negative
environmental or social effects and therefore did not trigger any of the Bank’s safeguard
policies. The project was designated a Category C. Nevertheless, the team and the
implementation agencies followed the standard IDA guidelines on project-financed
activities to avoid any negative social or environmental impacts of the project. Beyond
these requirements, the team and PCU paid particular attention to the inclusion of women
as project beneficiaries in Component 1.

36.     Social: Benefits of the project were extended particularly to women and
entrepreneurs on the more remote and poorer islands. To track the progress on gender
inclusion, an indicator was included in the results framework to target a minimum
percentage of women-led beneficiary firms (originally 10 percent in the PAD, later revised
to 20 percent.) These targets were (and are) in line with the trend of women’s participation
in firm management in Cabo Verde, which according to the World Economic Forum is 17
percent.3 The Chambers of Commerce, particularly that of Barlavento, were instrumental
in reaching out to entrepreneurs on the more remote and poor islands of Cabo Verde to
promote social inclusion in the matching grants program. They conducted face-to-face
dissemination and application support, particularly in the less-developed islands such as



2
 Ellis, Amanda, with Claire Manuel, and C. Mark Blackden. Gender and Economic Growth in Uganda:
Unleashing the Power of Women. World Bank, Washington, DC. 2006.

3
    World Economic Forum. Gender Gap Index 2013. Country Profile Cabo Verde. 2013.


                                                  11
Santo Antao. Consequently, 67 percent of matching grant beneficiaries were located in the
four islands of Barlavento, compared to 33 percent in the two islands of Sotovento.

37.     Environmental: The counterparts and the Bank team followed the standard IDA
safeguards typically used in matching grants programs to prevent any adverse
environmental effects of the project. A negative list of activities was included in the
financing agreement to ensure that activities supported by the project would have neutral
or positive environmental impacts.

38.      Fiduciary compliance: The financial management (FM) and procurement
arrangements at the PCU were considered a moderate risk at the time of project approval,
as both procurement capacity in the ministries and a fully operational procurement
institutional framework were lacking. However, through efforts made by the GoCV and
support from the project, these arrangements improved over time. Both a financial
management specialist and a procurement specialist were hired in the MoF with project
support. Furthermore, the project specifically targeted the efficiency of the national
procurement system, aiming to decrease the time to conduct a public procurement process
from 10 months to 6 months, which it indeed achieved. Moreover, once the project became
fully effective and implementation was underway, the procurement, accounting, financial
reporting, budgeting, staffing, external auditing and funds flow became acceptable for the
implementation and closing of the project. While minor procurement issues arose over the
project’s lifetime, they were quickly resolved in a satisfactory manner. Internal controls
were sufficient, and periodic external audits and reports to the WB were satisfactory and
on time in all cases. According to the last ISR, by the project’s end both financial
management and procurement were rated as satisfactory and fiduciary risk was rated as
low.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

39.     Sustainability is expected at three levels: (i) the improved performance of
beneficiary firms; (ii) the technical and administrative abilities of the MoF and other
beneficiary agencies; and (iii) continuation of several project activities under a new project
currently under preparation. Points (i) and (ii) are discussed further in section 3.2.

40.    Additionally, having been at the center of the efforts to implement digital and online
systems, NOSi (Operational Nucleus for the Information Society), the GoCV’s hub for e-
government, is prepared to continue supporting and maintaining these systems. In fact,
thanks to project support, NOSi has developed systems that are commercially viable, and
has begun selling these to other governments (e.g., Angola, Equatorial Guinea, and
Mozambique) as well as the local private sector. With these revenues, NOSi its capacity to
be self-sustaining and enjoy the resources required to maintain the above-mentioned
systems within the beneficiary agencies of the GoCV.




                                             12
41.     Finally, several of the project activities will continue to be supported through the
upcoming WBG project, Competitiveness for Tourism Development (P146666.) The
matching grants program will continue, with some modifications; and CI will continue to
be supported to increase its capacity to attract and manage investments, and this support
will also be extended to the SDTIBM (Society for Development of Tourism and Investment
in Boa Vista and Maio), responsible for similar tasks in Boa Vista and Maio.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: High

42.      The project objectives were highly relevant to Cabo Verde’s priorities and the Bank
assistance strategies at the time of preparation and today. The three outcomes included into
the PDO: i) reduction of the cost of doing business, ii) diversification of the target regions
receiving foreign investments, and iii) enhanced opportunities of small and medium
enterprises to access public procurement, were and are highly relevant to the WBG and
GoCV priorities. The PDO that appeared in the ISRs and RPs took these outcomes a step
higher in the hierarchy of results, aiming at (iv) improved performance of SMEs, and (v)
transparency and efficiency of public sector governance. In fact both versions of the PDO
responded to three of the five strategic pillars of Cabo Verde’s GPRSP II; namely Pillar 1
to promote government reform by modernizing public administration, Pillar 3 to enhance
competitiveness through reforms and investments, and Pillar 5 to strengthen social
cohesion. The project was also fully consistent with the higher-level objectives identified
in all three pillars of the Country Partnership Strategy for FY09-12, namely to: (a) promote
good governance and public sector capacity; (b) improve competitiveness and the
investment climate for private sector-led growth, and (c) strengthen human capital and
social inclusion. By improving the business environment, strengthening private firms
(particularly SMEs); thereby, the project contributed to increased competitiveness.
Through its outreach efforts to less-developed islands and women-led firms, the project
also promoted inclusive growth through technical assistance and access to finance. In
addition, the project contributed immensely to achieving the GoCV’s objective to
modernize the public administration, particularly through the digitization and online
platforms carried out by NOSi. The objective remains relevant to the current GPRSP III,
which identifies the private sector as the economy's main engine of growth, and the public
sector as a catalyst and facilitator of an investment and business-fostering environment.
Further, it continues to be relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy FY15-17,
whose second pillar emphasizes the importance of improving competitiveness and private
sector development.

Design: Modest

43.     The design is rated as “modest” because while the overall design and theory of
change responded aptly to the GoCV’s priorities at the time and its stated partnership
strategy with the WBG, it was also marked by four flaws. These were: insufficient support

                                             13
to achieve part of the original PDO; inclusion of several M&E indicators that could not be
attributed to the project; and inadequate readiness for effectiveness and disbursement.

44.     The overall design was based on a theory of change that a combined effort to
address both the external and internal constraints to SME competitiveness would contribute
to sustainable and inclusive growth—vis-à-vis both versions of the PDO. The external
constraints were identified as the regulatory and institutional frameworks that raised the
cost to do business, keeping many firms out of the market and maintaining high operating
costs (and hence uncompetitive) for existing SMEs. Internally, Caboverdean SMEs were
found to lack both the necessary skills and access to finance to be competitive. The project
therefore designed a series of activities - business environment reform, enhanced capacity
for the GoCV, and matching grants - aiming at the above-mentioned outcomes on different
levels in response to these constraints, thereby paving the way for the growth anticipated
by the GoCV and the WBG.

45.    However, the goal to “diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments”
was not sufficiently reflected in the level and scope of support to the GoCV, specifically
to Cabo Verde Investimentos (CVI.)

46.     Secondly, and following on the above-mentioned, it should be noted that the design
of the M&E framework exhibited some shortcomings. These are described in detail in
section 2.3. In sum, the inclusion of one PDO-level indicator as well as two intermediate
indicators which could not be reasonably attributed to project support has made it difficult
to demonstrate several key impacts of the project. These indicators were: “diversify the
points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in Cabo Verde;”
“indirect project beneficiaries (people gainfully employed); and “indirect project
beneficiaries of which female (% of the labor force.)” Furthermore, the miscalculation of
the target of the PDO indicator, “Increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts
through the public procurement process from 15 to 80 over the life of the project” did not
have an accurate baseline at the design stage.

47.     Thirdly, the project did not include any effectiveness or disbursement condition
requiring that the project implementation unit be fully established (i.e., with a project
coordinator, a finance specialist and procurement specialist.) Rather, a condition for
effectiveness was “The Government has recruited a financial management specialist for
the PIU, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association” while a dated
covenant was put in place that stated “The Government shall appoint the Project
administrator and procurement specialist in a manner satisfactory to the Association, no
later than June 30, 2010”. At the time, this condition was set as a dated covenant because
the project expected to inherit the PIU of the previous private sector development project,
without any undue delay or discussion with the GoCV. Furthermore, the WBG had a good
relationship with the GoCV and did not expect to have any issues with setting up this PIU.
That is, given the conditions at the time, the decision process was sound. Still, consequently
from this delay in fully staffing the PIU, the first withdrawal application for the initial
deposit took place only in September 2011, while the first withdrawal application for funds
actually disbursed only in February 2012, 14 months after effectiveness. As the project was

                                             14
approved in April 2010 and went until February 2012 to make its first disbursement, this
long delay hindered a number of envisaged activities. In view of the delayed
implementation of the project, the GoCV had already financed a number of activities so as
not to impede its national development agenda.

48.    Overall, the project team successfully mitigated these delays and other flaws
through the restructurings: the first to shift some activities to follow on the initiatives
already started by the GoCV, and the second to extend the project by six months in order
to complete all activities. The project concluded having disbursed over 98 percent of the
funds.

Implementation: Substantial

49.      The implementation of the designed activities was substantial, with two
shortcomings in the proactive identification of opportunities and resolution of threats. The
WBG team together with the PCU endeavored to continuously assure that the project
activities were relevant to the PDO and therefore the overarching goals of the WBG and
the GoCV, and in most cases adjusted these activities as necessary. Adjustments were made
based on close collaboration and a frank dialogue between the team and the GoCV. To this
end, the project was also restructured twice in order to maintain its relevance, respond to
changing priorities of the GoCV and provide ample time to implement the project to
achieve the PDO.

50.      Two shortcoming marked the implementation stage in which the team could have
attempted to correct some of the design flaws mentioned above. The adherence to the
original PDO, while informally dropping a critical PDO indicator on diversification of FDI,
left the project with a handicap in staying on course to achieve the full (original) PDO. The
formal changing of the PDO would have been further justified by the fact that some
activities planned to support diversification of FDI, such as having dedicated staff in CI to
promote this diversification, were not pursued. While there were two restructurings—
opportunities to reformulate the PDO accordingly—these were not used to change the PDO
or formally drop the corresponding indicator. Secondly, as it came to light that the
macroeconomic indicators in the M&E framework would not be attributable to the project,
it would have been possible to use the restructurings to delete and/or replace these with
more appropriate indicators.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

51.    The Project aimed to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce cost of doing
business, diversify target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance opportunity
of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement. To achieve this, the Project
addressed both external and internal constraints to the growth of Caboverdean SMEs, while
also addressing the GoCV’s institutional capacity to manage and strategize for private
sector development. The project improved the country’s business climate and the
competitiveness of 136 beneficiary firms—or 1.5 percent of the universe of SMEs as of



                                             15
20124—that raised their average revenues by 43 percent5. The three key indicators were (i)
Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a business license from 24 to 7; (ii) Reduce
the cost of registering property (as percent of property value) by 40 percent; (iii) Increase
the number of SMEs that bid in the public procurement process, as a result of the adoption
of new procurement policies, from 15 (estimated) to 30, over the life of the project. Having
complied with the latter two out of these three measures, the project nearly met its objective
and is therefore rated as moderately satisfactory.

52.     PDO 1: Reduce the cost of doing business—Substantial: The cost of doing
business was significantly decreased thanks to the project’s support, despite the fact that
not all related PDO indicators were achieved. The project supported improvement to the
investment climate from two key angles: 1) electronic platforms and process re-engineering
to decrease the time and cost for firms to complete key transactions with the administration;
and 2) capacity-building for key institutions within the GoCV responsible for the policies
and strategies to increase private investment. From the first angle, firms are expected to
benefit directly from a decrease in the cost of compliance with administrative tasks. For
example, the processes to obtain business licenses, registrations and property registration
were simplified and made more efficient. Moreover, the mkonekta electronic interface
between the administration and individuals/firms has produced a meaningful shift in the
level of transparency and efficiency in 84 different types of procedures. From the second
angle, capacity support released constraints within the GoCV that were preventing it from
formulating and administering its policies efficiently—especially those that affect firms
and their cost of business. Thereby, these capacity-building reforms also contribute
indirectly to reducing the cost of doing business.

Electronic platforms and process re-engineering

53.     UCRE (State Reform Coordinating Unit) and NOSi (Operational Unit for the
Information Society) were responsible for implementing the first set of activities, with the
objective of increasing the transparency and efficiency of business-government
interactions. The project contributed to the improvement of the investment climate in Cabo
Verde as measured by the PDO indicators, intermediate results indicators, and additional
relevant outcomes beyond the monitoring and evaluation plan. The first PDO indicator
targeted a reduction in the time to obtain a business license from 24 days to 7; the actual
time at project’s end (as measured by the Doing Business in 2015 report) was 8 days,
equivalent to a 70 percent reduction in time. To achieve this, the project supported the
development of the electronic platform to obtain licenses at the municipal level. At the
Property Registry, the project supported similar activities, as well as the digitization of
property records and the automation of internal procedures, which together reduced the
cost and time to complete registration in Praia and Sal. The second PDO indicator was “to
reduce the cost of registering property (as a percent of property value) by 40 percent.”


4
  Source: National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Data as of 2012. The total universe of SMEs as of 2012 was
9,177. Therefore 136 beneficiary firms constitute 1.5 percent of that total.
5
  Source: National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Data as of 2013, since firms submit their tax returns for the
preceding year only in May. At the time of writing this ICR, this data was not yet available.

                                                      16
According to the original M&E plan from the appraisal stage, the baseline was quoted as
7.7 percent of property value, while the end target was 4.6 percent. The actual cost at the
end of the project was 3.7 percent – thereby surpassing the target by 20 percent. However,
it must be noted that the biggest drop in cost – from 7.7 to 3.9 percent, as result of switching
from percentage-based to fixed rate fees for property registration — happened before the
project became effective. That is, the Doing Business in 2011 report recorded this reform;
however, this report was published in September 2010, two months before the project
became effective in November 2010. Still, this reform was at least partially attributed to
the project insofar as it was included in the design and continued to be supported after the
GoCV made initial efforts to make this change.

54.      The project also supported the reduction in time and the simplification of the
process to register property, as well as the simplification of the process to obtain a business
license. The time to register a transfer of property fell from a baseline of 73 days down to
just 22, according to the latest Doing Business in 2015 report (published in October 2014.)
The General Directorate for Registry and Notary reports that a deed of compliance is now
completed within 24-48 hours and that the issuance of a Public Deed takes just 48 hours.
At the same time—though without attributing the increase directly to the project—the
number of acquisitions registered is greater today than before the reform: from 2006 to
2009, the annual registrations averaged 1,118; from 2011 to 2014, this average jumped by
66 percent to 1,965. In fact, the electronic platform was so successful in Praia and Sal that
the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) decided to fund the roll-out of the same system
across the remaining islands. Although the result of 22 days fell short of the target of 7
days, it still represents a significant reduction of 70 percent from the baseline. The process
to effect transfers was also simplified; although, due to differences between the Doing
Business methodology and the GoCV’s internal evaluation, the indicator fell short of its
target to reduce the number of steps from 6 to 3 (according to Doing Business, the number
of steps remained at 6.) Similarly, the process to obtain a business license was simplified
thanks to electronic records and an online platform, but for the same reasons fell short of
its target to reduce the number of steps from 9 to 3 (though still decreased to 8.)

55.     The establishment of an electronic platform to facilitate business registration,
business licensing and property registration has led to a reduction in the time and cost to
both firms and individuals in undertaking these activities, as well as a reduction in the
administrative costs for the GoCV. The electronic platforms supported by this project were
so successful that NOSi has been able to market them both domestically and internationally,
selling both the systems as well as their technical expertise to install and administer them.

56.     In addition, the project supported an innovative mobile phone platform, “mkonekta”
(www.mkonekta.gov.cv), to allow individuals and businesses to interface with the
government with even greater ease, as well as for public functionaries to perform their
duties. The program has developed 84 different types of services so far, ranging from
payments for taxes and business licenses, to tracking shipments through customs, and even
making doctor’s appointments, among many others. These have facilitated the decrease of
the time and number of procedures required to complete both commercial and individual
transactions vis-à-vis the government.

                                              17
Capacity-building for key institutions within the GoCV

57.     The project aimed to strengthen the capacity of the agencies within the GoCV
tasked with devising policies, strategies and managing the private sector, particularly SMEs,
to increase its competitiveness. With such enhanced capacity it is expected that the
beneficiary agencies would be enabled to formulate more efficient and business-friendly
policies that would lower the cost of complying with administrative tasks for firms. To
attain this, the project supported the Agency for Entrepreneurial Development and
Innovation (ADEI), Directorate General of Public Heritage and Contracts (DGPCP), Cabo
Verde Investments (CI), Directorate General for Tourism (DGT), Directorate for Planning
(DNP), and the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP.) The specific support is described
below, as well as a qualitative account of its expected impacts.

58.     ADEI: ADEI is responsible the promotion of competitiveness and the development
of MSMEs, including policies that affect them. Furthermore, its mandate includes the
promotion of innovation and capacity building among entrepreneurs, as well as the
improvement of the investment climate. As ADEI was established during the project’s
design period, once the agency began fully operating, the project was able to support
several key activities to help it to fulfill its mandate. The project therefore funded a study
on national entrepreneurship and a coordinator to help implement the national entrepreneur
incubator system. The study on entrepreneurship was an important contribution to the
GoCV’s knowledge of the SME sector and will serve as a reference for its policymaking
in this area. Furthermore, after the Coordinator was installed, the number of incubators
increased from one to five, with a sixth incubator in progress. Among these, two are
specialized in Tourism and two in Agribusiness, in line with the GoCV’s goal to increase
SMEs’ participation in the tourism value chain. The establishment of these incubators also
contributes to SME capacity building and the development of the business development
service market in Cabo Verde, which was missing at the appraisal stage.

59.     DGIC: To further increase transparency and improve economic governance, the
project financed the development by NOSi of software designed to monitor import/export
operations and enable the online trade permit, TCE. This was a critical addition, as the
previous DGIC system that monitored customs and commercial operations lacked the
component to monitor the exchange operation.

60.     DGT: The project supported the DGT to increase its capacity to strategize and
manage the tourism sector with greater efficiency and transparency. The project financed
the following activities to this end: a survey of the tourism resources available in Santiago
Island; training on sustainable tourism development; as well as office equipment and a
vehicle for these surveys to be used by the DGT. In order to support the development of a
new structure within the GoCV to manage the tourism sector, the project funded the DGT’s
participation in a study tour to the Seychelles. As a result of these activities, the DGT’s
capacity was improved and allowed the recently established Ministry of Tourism,
Investment and Enterprise Development (MTIDE) to design a new National Tourism
Institute within the GoCV.

                                             18
61.     DNP: The project supported the DNP’s capacity to strategize for improved
economic governance. To that end, it funded TA to prepare the GPRSP III as well as a new
planning and budgeting system, including the Basic Law on National Planning System.
These are critical inputs to the GoCV’s capacity to formulate policy. The GPRSP is the
basic planning document for the GoCV’s strategy to reduce poverty, stimulate growth and
determine the related economic and social policies to achieve its objectives and targets.
The Basic Law on Planning System legally formalizes a new system of strategic planning,
and as an important step towards improved transparency and good economic governance,
identifies and integrates all public entities involved in the planning and budgeting process.

62.     MFP: The project supported the Ministry of Finance and Planning to conduct a
valuation of the State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), Enapor and Cabnave. These two entities
had been previously targeted for privatization under the Privatization and Regulatory
Capacity Building Project (PRCBP) of 2003, although it did not materialize. The inclusion
of this support was made after the mid-term review, in light of its relevance to the
investment climate and economic governance and the fact that the GoCV stood at a major
disadvantage vis-à-vis potential investors without an accurate assessment of the value of
these two SOEs. The continued operation of these SOEs would imply further losses to the
GoCV, worsening its macroeconomic situation and investors’ perceptions. Furthermore,
an eventual privatization of these port and shipyard facilities is expected to increase
efficiency therein, particular for SMEs that import and export.

63.     To put these institutional reforms in context—without specifically claiming
attribution to this project—it is worth highlighting the progression of Cabo Verde’s ranks
on relevant indicators from the Heritage Foundation’s Index of Economic Freedom during
the project period. Cabo Verde’s overall score has been on a steady incline since the first
year of the project in 2010 with a baseline of 61.8, rising to 66.4 in 2015. Individual
indicators related to the project’s activities—trade freedom, property rights, investment
freedom, freedom from corruption, and financial freedom—also rose steadily during this
period. See figure 1 below.




                                             19
Figure 1: Cabo Verde’s institutional and regulatory improvements have been
validated by published indicators


            Cabo Verde improved in select Heritage Foundation indicators 
                          over the lifetime of the project
    80

    75                                                                                               75
    70                                                                                               7069.6
         65.5                                                                                        66.4
    65
          65
         61.8
    60                                                                                               60
          60                                                                                         58
    55

    50    51

    45

    40
           2010               2011           2012               2013            2014             2015
                  overall score               property rights              freedom from corruption
                  trade freedom               investment freedom           financial freedom


64.     Similarly, anecdotal evidence points to improving investor perceptions of Cabo
Verde (as well as many other factors beyond the scope of this project). Two major foreign
direct investments have been recently announced in the tourism sector: the Canary Islands
Government intends to invest 110m EUR in Cabo Verde, while a new resort, Perola Negra,
will be opened in the island of Sao Vicente and is expected to create 1,380 jobs.

PDO 2: Diversify target regions receiving foreign investments—Modest

65.     During the design stage, this was included as part of the PDO as it was intended
that the project would contribute to diversifying FDI towards the less favored islands at the
time, that is, those outside of Sal and Boa Vista, and towards sectors other than tourism.
The support to achieve this goal was mainly directed to Cabo Verde Investimentos (CI.)
To measure this part of the objective, a fourth PDO indicator was originally included: the
diversification of the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other
sectors in Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI)
of concentration of FDI. However, in January 2014 (one year before project close) the
GoCV entered into discussions with the WB team on the replacement of this indicator with
the following output measure: “creation of an electronic one-stop shop for international
investments.”6 This indicator was achieved. The former indicator on HHI persisted in all
official documentation (the second restructuring agreement, subsequent ISRs) until
January 2015, when the new indicator was entered in the last ISR. By this new indicator,



6
  The M&E specialist’s report that documents this discussion on the change of the PDO indicator is found
in Annex 9.

                                                   20
the project indeed achieved or nearly achieved all 3 PDO indicators. It is expected that the
support to create the electronic one-stop shop for international investments at CI has
contributed to its capacity to attract FDI, handle investor queries, host visits and eventually
convert expressions of interest into actual commitments and investments in the country.7
Eventually, this strengthened capacity could lead to enhanced ability to diversify target
regions receiving FDI.

66.     CI: Cabo Verde Investments is the national investment promotion agency. It is
responsible for promotion, marketing and investor handling for the country. The purpose
of the project’s support to CI was to help CI fulfill the GoCV’s goal of diversifying the
sectors and geography of incoming FDI, and improve CI’s capacity to realize its mandate.
The PDO indicator associated with measuring these expected results was originally
“Diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in
Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI) of
concentration of FDI,” though this was later scrapped during the project’s lifetime as an
inadequate and non-attributable indicator for the project. As mentioned above, it was later
replaced with the output indicator “create an electronic one-stop shop for international
investments.” The project continued to support CI to improve its investment promotion
capacity through the following activities: the establishment of a one-stop shop (OSS) for
investments; the launch of a new website, including on-line marketing; and a marketing
plan to attract investment in the garment and shoe industries. The activities were completed
through various technical assistance, goods and services. The OSS benefited from a new
regulatory framework and the design of its digital platform. Furthermore, hardware,
software, furniture and an improved workspace were financed, in addition to manuals and
training for the staff. Technical assistance and IT support allowed the launch of the new
website and online marketing tools, as well as the specific marketing plan to attract
investment in the garment and shoe industries geared towards Portuguese investors.

67.    Thanks to this support, the performance of CI in terms of investor handling has
improved from a baseline of six to nine months, as measured in 2011 by the World Bank
Global Investment Promotion Benchmarking report, down to 60 to 75 days today.
Furthermore, the specific support to the OSS and online platform has allowed CI to respond
immediately to investor queries, thereby improving its ability to attract and manage FDI.

68.    Anecdotally, and without claiming any correlation to the project, the trend of FDI
inflows to Cabo Verde should be noted: in fact, Cabo Verde has suffered a decline in FDI
since 2008, when net inflows reached 12 percent of GDP. It decreased sharply in 2009 to
2010 to 7 percent, to 5 percent in 2011, 4 percent in 2012, and a mere 2 percent in 2013.
The trend is not surprising, given the exposure Cabo Verde had to the financial and
economic crisis through its principally European investors and tourists. Official data for
2014 is not available, although, in terms of attempting to diversify its incoming FDI


7
 While CI expects that its conversion rate—from queries to visits to commitments—will improve with the
capacity building provided by this project, they do not yet have the data to demonstrate such an
improvement. However with the implementation of the one-stop shop for investments, they expect to be
able to electronically track this data from now on.

                                                  21
geographically and sectorally, CI reports that four investors expressed interest in
manufacturing projects, although only two of these have been realized so far, and both are
Cabo Verdean in origin. In 2015, nine manufacturing projects have been approved to take
place in Fogo, Sal and Santiago islands amounting to a total value of 6.5 million euros.

PDO 3: Enhance opportunity of small and medium enterprises to access public
procurement—High

69.     The matching grants8 program aimed to address the internal constraints preventing
Caboverdean SMEs9 from being competitive, particularly their lack of technical skills and
access to finance, while the support to ARAP aimed to address the external constraints to
SMEs’ access to public procurement. To this effect, the firm-level targets set in the
intermediate results indicators were exceeded. Matching grants amounting to US$ 700,845
were provided to 136 SMEs, of which 26 of which were led by women, surpassing the
targets of 100 firms with 20 led by women. Matching grants were provided across all
eligible sectors (as per IDA rules) and in nine inhabited islands. Twenty-six percent of
beneficiaries were located outside of the main urban centers of Praia (Santiago Island) and
Mindelo (Sao Vicente Island); in the first year of the program, 2012, 36 percent of the
universe of Caboverdean firms were found outside of these two islands.10 Finally, the target
of the PDO indicator to increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts in the
public procurement system was far surpassed (444 over the lifetime of the project,
compared to the target of 30.)

70.     ARAP: In Cabo Verde, the State is one of the largest domestic procurers of goods
and services. The substantial support provided to improve public procurement was
included in this project as it was expected that improving SMEs’ access to this market
would allow them the opportunity to expand their business, derive steady income from
longer-term contracts, and improve their chances of access to finance. On the one hand,
this support was on the ‘supply’ side—that is, legal, regulatory and institutional support to
ARAP and the UGAs, responsible for public procurement within the GoCV. On the other
hand, this support was directed to improving SMEs’ demand to access public procurement
contracts by providing specific training on procurement through ARAP, as well as by
improving their overall competitiveness through the MG program.

71.     Specifically, ARAP is the agency responsible for making and administering
national policies on procurement. It regulates, supervises and resolves and conflicts related
to public procurement on behalf of the GoCV. Importantly, each independent agency of
the GoCV is responsible for conducting its own procurement, according to the regulations
set by ARAP. In order to fulfill the project’s objective of enhancing opportunities of SMEs
to access public procurement, the third PDO indicator was to “increase the number of


8
 The MG activity was managed by the two Chambers of Commerce of Barlavento (Northern islands) and
Sotovento (Southern islands.)


10
     National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Annual Survey of Firms 2013.

                                                       22
SMEs that compete for contracts through the public procurement process from 15 to 80,
over the lifetime of the project.” While this target was later revised downward to 30, the
intent to encourage more SMEs to participate in public procurement remained. This target
was far surpassed: by the end of the project, 444 SMEs had competed for contracts through
the public procurement process. Additional SMEs were trained in public procurement in
order to improve their ability to compete for contracts.

72.     Moreover, a monumental shift in the GoCV’s relationship vis-à-vis SMEs has
occurred in the area of public procurement, largely thanks to this project. The surpassing
of the PDO target is one indication, though additional structural reforms have taken place
that will continue to encourage SMEs to compete for public contracts and track their
participation—making this shift sustainable. The project made public procurement more
transparent and efficient by strengthening the legal and institutional framework, training
staff and purchasing goods and services. The project supported the modernization of the
national procurement system, addressing remaining issues in the legal and institutional
framework with a view to fostering competition, avoiding conflict of interest and
improving internal controls of procurement transactions handled by the contracting
authorities.

73.     The project also helped ARAP to become fully operational, as well as the
procurement services (UGAs and UGAC) of contracting authorities. These UGAs are the
responsible teams in each ministry for procurement. They now enjoy an online
procurement platform that allows them to track—and therefore encourage—SMEs’
participation. To achieve this goal, the project supported the institutional strengthening of
ARAP, including a Strategic and Operational Plan that would install a new organizational
design, define objectives in the management process, adopt performance indicators and a
M&E system, and install new technology to manage and track the processes. Secondly, the
project financed the introduction of ISO 9001into the procurement system in order to
promote improved quality of the management system, introduce internal audits, and other
quality controls to conform to the ISO 9001 norms. The project also financed hardware,
software and furniture to equip the central service and the UGAs; audits of systems and
processes; and an extensive revision and modification of the legal and regulatory
framework for public procurement.

74.     In terms of the regulatory framework, the project supported: (i) an update of the
existing procurement law and regulations, as well as new implementing regulations to
promote efficiency and eliminate provisions that result in reduced competition or a lack of
transparency. Specifically, the project addressed: (i) the numerous sole source provisions
that allowed an abusive use of this method of selection; (ii) the restrictive mandatory
certification provisions for international bidders; (iii) the restrictive eligibility practices for
national competitive bidding that limited participation among local bidders; (iv) practices
that led to conflicts of interest at the level of procurement regulatory authority (ARAP); (v)
clarification of ARAP’s certification role in relation to UGA; (vi) the need for private
sector representation ARAP’s board of directors, and (vii) the absence of the implementing
rules and regulations for handling complaints from bidders. The project also supported the
establishment of a Procurement directorate, under DGPCP, at the level of the Ministry of

                                                23
Finance, in order to ensure effective internal controls of procurement transactions handled
by the UGAs and UGAC (under the DGPOG of the Ministry of Finance).

75.     Capacity was strengthened through the implementation of the national procurement
capacity building program. This included civil service staff responsible for the operation
of the procurement system, firms (especially SMEs), suppliers and contractors
participating in bidding. The capacity building program ensured that training was extended
not only to larger firms but in particular to SMEs that were less knowledgeable about public
procurement procedures but were interested in bidding for public contracts.

76.    DGPCP: Complementary to the support provided to ARAP, the WB also financed
a new website for the DGPCP to better disseminate information on public procurement,
thereby further increasing transparency and efficiency of the system, and allowing
administrators to accurately track the number of SMEs competing for public contracts. This
support was channeled through NOSi, which designed and installed the platform for
DGPCP.

77.     Matching grants program (FCC): In order to achieve the beneficiaries’ objectives
as laid out in their applications, the grants were put towards technical assistance that
included training to introduce new technology, diversify products, improve their
management, marketing, business plans and train their employees. During the program’s
implementation from 2012 to January 201511, the beneficiaries raised their average one-
year growth in sales revenue by 43 percent over and above a comparable group of
Caboverdean SMEs, compared to the target of 7.5 percent, although both groups
experienced negative growth over the time period. Even though they were not part of the
project’s indicators, the team and PCU requested that INE collect additional data on the
beneficiaries and their comparable counterparts in the economy12 (See Annex 7b for the
entire report and its methodology.) For example, a survey found that 56 percent of
Caboverdean SMEs were aware of the matching grants program, pointing to the relative
success of the outreach efforts by the Chambers of Commerce (also funded by the project.)
Of these, it was found that the most effective means of outreach were, in order: workshops
organized by the Chambers of Commerce; radio; television, internet, and lastly
newspapers.13 The data further demonstrated that among the beneficiary firms, 32 percent
launched firm-level new products, compared to 13 percent of non-beneficiaries during the
same period; 57 percent undertook training for their employees, compared to 26 percent of
non-beneficiaries; and 68 percent adopted new technology, compared to 27 percent of non-
beneficiaries. A difference-in-difference analysis is conducted in Table 1 below, using this
data. To put these results in context, 61.5 percent of a representative sample of


11
   The duration of the matching grants program was from 2012 to January 2015. However, the data
presented here is only through the year 2013 because INE collects data from tax records, which are only
reported by May 31 of the subsequent year. Hence at the time of writing this ICR, such data is not available
for the year 2014 as INE is still analyzing it.
12
   The INE methodology compared a representative sample of 39 beneficiary firms with a stratified random
sample of 497 comparable SMEs in Cabo Verde over the same time period: September 2013 to April 2014.
13
   National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Study n. º 2 on the Impact of the Fund for Growth and
Competitiveness (FCC.)

                                                    24
Caboverdean entrepreneurs report that they have no technological innovation to offer their
clients. This compares favorably to much higher proportions of similar samples of
entrepreneurs in the Caribbean that report the same lack of innovation: 67.8 percent in
Barbados; 75.5 in Jamaica; 76.5 in Suriname; and 82.8 in Trinidad & Tobago.14

78.  These results were measured during the effective implementation period of
Component 1b. These were confirmed through self-reporting, with verification by INE.

79.   Further to the indicators tracked by the project, supplementary data collected by
INE demonstrate the extensive results associated with this project and the beneficiary
SMEs compared to a similar group of non-beneficiary firms in Cabo Verde. These are
summarized in Table 1 below.

Table 1: Indicative difference-in-difference analysis of FCC impact on beneficiary
firms15

 Supplementary        Non-beneficiary     Beneficiary         Non-beneficiary     Beneficiary         Assumed treatment
 indicator            result in 2012      result in 2012      result in 2013      result in 2013      effect of the FCC
                                                                                                      (difference-in-
                                                                                                      difference)

 Average annual       29                  60                  -25                 18                  12
 growth of
 turnover
 compared to
 previous year
 (%)
 Firms that…
 Launched a new       21                  36                  28                  50                  3
 advertising
 campaign for
 their products
 (%)
 Introduced a         13                  32                  19                  42                  4
 new product (%)
 Invested in          26                  57                  34                  70                  5
 employee
 training (%)
 Participated in a    22                  48                  31                  59                  2
 domestic trade
 fair in the last 3
 years (%)
 Participated in a    9                   18                  13                  41                  19
 trade fair abroad




14
   ADEI. “Elaboração de um inquerito às pequenas e médias empresas relativo às atitudes sobre o
empreendedorismo.” [Entrepreneurship study final draft report, funded by the Project.] 2015.
15
   These values are noted as ‘indicative’ because INE did not provide firm-level data, but only the
aggregate values for each group of beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries. Therefore it is not possible to
calculate the standard deviation and hence the statistical significance of the difference-in-difference results.

                                                      25
 in the last 3
 years (%)
 Improved their     27                68                36                 58                -19
 production
 technology in
 the last 3 years
 Contracted local   22                93                23                 97                3
 consultancy
 services in the
 last 3 years

80.    At the firm level, the results seen here, in terms of increased turnover, use of
improved technology and improved production processes, among others, indicate an
increased level of competitiveness among the beneficiary firms, compared to a similar
sample of domestic firms. At the economy level, improved competitiveness among firms
is expected to lead to sustained long-term growth.

81.     These impacts are generally positive. While comparison with the trends among
non-beneficiary firms in Cabo Verde point to a potential causal relationship between the
project’s intervention and the reported impacts, since the project did not include a rigorous
impact evaluation, it is impossible to determine any stronger attribution than what is
presented here using an indicative difference-in-difference analysis. However, it is notable
that these results are broadly in line with those seen in 36 rigorous studies on similar
matching programs across 18 countries (14 in Latin America, 4 in Sub-Saharan Africa). A
meta-analysis of the data from these studies found that matching grants programs tend to
lead to positive effects on firm performance, employment and investment.16

82.     In terms of social impact, the program also benefited Cabo Verde’s rural firms on
the more remote islands outside of Sao Vicente and Santiago, counting 26 percent of
beneficiaries on such islands. Together these firms in more remote islands comprised 36
percent of the population of all firms in the first year of the matching grants program, 2012.
However, the Chambers of Commerce—particularly Barlavento—made a concerted effort
to include them in this program as they tend to suffer disproportionally from poverty and
unemployment.

83.     In terms of gender, 28 percent of the beneficiary firms were led by women,
exceeding the project’s target of 20 percent. According to the Enterprise Surveys of 2009,
during the design phase of this project only 16.7 percent of Caboverdean firms had a female
top manager. In this light, the target of 20 percent and the attainment of 28 percent of
female-led beneficiaries are notable. However, the same data showed that 33.1 percent of
firms had full or partial female ownership; similarly, data published by INE for 2013
showed that the average rate of women-led firms across the country was 34 percent.
Compared to these INE data, the target and result for gender inclusion may appear modest.


16
  Caio Piza, Lauro Gonzalez, Linnet Taylor, Tulio Antonio Cravo, Samer Abdelnour, Isabel Musse,
Isabela Furtado, Ana Cristina Sierra. The Impact of Business Support Services for Small and Medium
Enterprises on Firm Performance in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review. Campbell
Systematic Reviews 20xx:x. DOI: 10.4073/csr.200x.x. As of May 29, 2015, this paper is still in draft.

                                                 26
Lack of attribution of two intermediate outcome indicators

84.     Two intermediate outcome indicators were included in the M&E framework that,
in retrospect, and perhaps at the design stage, cannot be reasonably attributed to the project
due to the many factors affecting them that were outside the scope of influence of the
project and even the GoCV. These indicators are: “Indirect project beneficiaries (people
gainfully employed)” and “indirect project beneficiaries (number) of which female (% of
labor force.)” While the first indicator failed to reach the target (185,486 employed people
compared to the target 196,000), the second one surpassed it (45.8 percent compared to the
target 45 percent.) Neither of these results can be plausibly credited to the project, however.
Their inclusion in the M&E framework is a point of discussion in Section 2.3.

3.3 Efficiency

85.      The project appraisal document included a quantitative analysis for the matching
grant subcomponent 1.b, estimating a NPV of US$1.9 million and an ERR of 43 percent.
For Component 1.a, business environment reform support, a qualitative analysis was
conducted, based on a review of the literature related to business environment reforms in
general as well as the specific ones related to business entry, property registration and the
insolvency framework. The support for these three types of reforms were expected to,
respectively: yield increased firm registrations and higher productivity among existing
firms; facilitate the use of land as collateral; and improve debt collection and therefore ease
lending. The economic analysis refrained from any formal ex-ante evaluation of the
institutional reforms in the absence of any accepted methodology for the same.

86.      For Component 1.a, indeed, the average annual number of new business
registrations during the project’s lifetime was 43 percent higher than in the years prior.17
However, in the absence of any rigorous impact evaluation, it is not possible to directly
attribute this increase to the eased business entry procedures supported by the project.
Rather, market dynamics are more likely to have affected the increase, among other factors.
Still, it is possible to calculate the direct cost compliance savings for the firms that
registered and benefitted from the decreased time to obtain a license. Measured as such,
from 2011 to 2014, firms that registered and applied for a license saved a total of
US$ 427,706, based on the average national wage (US$ 6.87/day)18, the number of firm
registrations per year, and the days required to obtain a license (from a baseline of 24,
decreasing to 11 days in 2011, to 8 days from 2012 onwards.) If the time to register remains
steady at 8 days, and the trend of registrations remains the same, then it can be expected
that the annual savings to firms will continue to average US$108,601. Five years post-



17
   Data sourced from the Casa do Cidadão. Annual average business registrations from 2008-2010 was 718
firms, while from 2011-2014 it was 1,026, although note that these time periods differ for lack of additional
data.
18
   Cabo Verde instituted its first minimum wage in January 2014 at 11,000 escudos per month. Dividing
this by 20 working days and using the exchange rate at the time, the daily wage was US$ 6.87 per day.
Source: http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/227138.pdf

                                                     27
completion, firms will have potentially saved US$ 543,005, in addition to the US$ 427,706
that has already been saved (US$ 820,711.) As a net present value, subject to a discount
rate of 12 percent, this savings is US$ 376,793. See Table 1 in Annex 3. This savings
compares favorably to the US$ 150,000 of project funds dedicated to technical assistance
to improve the efficiency of these licenses.

87.     Secondly, while the number of registered property acquisitions increased by 66
percent during the project compared to the years prior, this was likely influenced by other
factors in addition to project support to ease the process. Finally, as the envisaged support
to the insolvency framework was not fully realized (only the digital platform to register
business closings), and data was not collected on improved debt collection nor increased
lending, it is not possible to determine the economic impact of this particular support.

88.      The ex-post analysis of the results of subcomponent 1.b demonstrate a number of
positive effects of the matching grants program on its 136 beneficiaries, the most
quantifiable being their increase in turnover. While turnover numbers were only available
for a sample of 39 of the beneficiaries for the years 2011-2013, if the trend of growth is
assumed to be the same for the entire group of beneficiaries, they increased their average
turnover by 60 percent in 2012 (over the baseline of 2011) and by 18 percent the following
year. Data on turnover from the third and final round of the FCC in 2014 was not available
at the time of writing this ICR. In total, the 68 beneficiaries of the first two rounds of the
FCC can be assumed to have generated a total of US$ 63 million in turnover from 2012-
2013.19

89.      To look at project implementation efficiency, it can be measured by operating costs
as a proportion of total disbursements. This is measured at the project level as well as at
the subcomponent level in terms of the matching grants program. For the entire project,
US$ 679,011 was spent on Component 3, supporting project implementation. This is 32
percent of the total amount disbursed from the project (US$ 2,107,668.) For (imperfect)
comparison, the previous Growth & Competitiveness Project in Cabo Verde (P074055,
US$ 12.45m) spent 18.2 percent on project implementation; the St. Lucia OECS Skills for
Inclusive Growth Project spent 35 percent of the total project cost on implementation
(P097141, US$ 5.52m20); in the Maldives, the Mobile Phone Banking Project (P107981,
US$ 5.86m) dedicated 26 percent to project implementation; while the Timor L’Este
Second Small Enterprise Development Project (P072654, US$ 7.4m) provided 24 percent
of its financing for project implementation support.21 It should be noted that each of these
projects were larger than this project in Cabo Verde.


19
   Data is sourced from INE on the sample of 39 firms. If it is assumed that the average annual turnover is
consistent across the entire group of 136 beneficiaries, then the first round of 38 firms generated US$ 27m,
while the second round of 30 firms generated US$26m. Data for the third round is not available at the time
of writing this ICR.
20
   Note that in St. Lucia, US$ 3.69 was disbursed from IDA, although additional financing from the GoStL
and the private sector raised the total funds of the project to US$ 5.52m.
21
   This data is gathered from the ICR of each respective project. Project implementation support refers in
each case to the total amount dedicated to the project implementation unit, or otherwise referred to as the
project coordination unit.

                                                     28
90.    For the matching grants program, the cost of management (US$ 299,155) was 29.9
percent of the total disbursed for that subcomponent, US$ 1,000,000. This compares
favorably to similar programs around the world: Argentina, 36 percent; Indonesia, 47
percent; Kenya, 57 percent; and Mauritius, 19 percent.

The Efficiency rating is substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

91.     Despite that its relevance of design was modest and that one of the PDO was
modestly achieved (Diversify target regions receiving foreign investments), given that the
achievement of two of its PDOs (Reduce the cost of doing business and Enhance
opportunity of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement) was substantial
to high; and that the project was implemented with substantial efficiency and that its
objectives were highly relevant to both the GoCV’s current objectives and World Bank
current assistance strategy; and that its implementation was substantial to achieve the
objectives, the overall outcome rating is Moderately satisfactory. The outcomes
associated with the first objective of the project resulted an improved business environment,
as indicated by the decrease in the time to obtain a business license from 24 to just 8 days
and the decrease in the cost to register property by 52 percent. Moreover, 444 SMEs
competed for contracts through the public procurement system, as opposed to the target of
30. Furthermore, the project effected a total disbursement of matching grants to 136
beneficiary firms, who raised their average one-year growth in sales revenue by 43 percent
over and above a comparable group of Caboverdean SMEs, against the target of 7.5 percent.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

92.     Poverty impacts: The project directly supported the improved competitiveness of
136 SMEs over its lifetime, as found in numerous follow-up visits and surveys by the PCU
on the beneficiary firms. Given that Cabo Verde has a national poverty rate of 61.9 percent,
with even higher rates among women and people in more remote islands, these improved
firms will allow many people an opportunity to increase and receive a steady income for
themselves and their families. Furthermore, the increased sales among the beneficiary firms
has a direct impact on raising the income of the business owners, while also increasing
their demand for local inputs, thereby producing positive multiplier effects in the economy.
Their introduction of new products and processes is also expected to raise their productivity
and therefore their earning potential.

93.    Gender aspects: The project had positive impacts on women entrepreneurs.
Component 1 facilitated business start-up and operations procedures, while providing
matching grants to 25 SMEs led by women. Complex business regulations typically pose
a heavier burden to female vs. male-owned firms because women are more ‘time-poor’,

                                             29
dedicating more time than men to both earning a living as well as taking care of their
families. Therefore women entrepreneurs are more likely to operate in the informal sector
and remain small businesses, as they lack the time to navigate a complex business
environment. They are also found to be more likely to be subject to bribe-seeking by
officials.22 Component 1 is therefore expected to have made the processes of business entry
and operations more accessible to women, thereby encouraging them to operate in the
formal sector, and utilize these services to enhance the productivity of their firms. The
matching grants provided to the women-led firms also mitigates the increased difficulties
faced by female entrepreneurs.

94.     Social development: In terms of social impact, the program also benefited Cabo
Verde’s rural firms on the more remote islands outside of Sao Vicente and Santiago,
counting 26 percent of beneficiaries on such islands. Together these firms in more remote
islands comprised 36 percent of the population of all firms in the first year of the matching
grants program, 2012.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening)

95.     The institutional changes and capacity support are described fully above in Section
3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

96.      Among the 136 beneficiary firms, the effects of the global economic and financial
crisis were cushioned. Financing equivalent to US$ 700,845 was provided to these firms
during a time when overall credit to the private sector was contracting. This credit allowed
the recipient firms to create new products and processes, which is expected to contribute
to their increased competitiveness, and the overall sustainable growth of the economy. This
contribution is also important, given that during the crisis, GDP growth rates dipped to -
1.2 percent in 2009, from an average of 9.2 percent from 2005 to 2008. Growth rates
recovered somewhat, rising again to an average of 1.8 percent from 2010 to 2013.23

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

97.     N/A. No beneficiary surveys nor stakeholder workshops were conducted on the
project’s results.




22
   Amanda Ellis, Claire Manuel, and C. Mark Blackden. Gender and Economic Growth in Uganda:
Unleashing the Power of Women. World Bank, Washington, DC. 2006.
23
   World Bank. World Development Indicators for Cabo Verde. www.data.worldbank.org

                                                30
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

98.     There does not appear to be any imminent risk that technical, economic or political
factors could reverse or decrease the effectiveness of the development outcome as it has
been achieved by the project. The policies of the GoCV that provided the framework for
the design of this project are still relevant and promoted by the current administration. Both
the beneficiary agencies of Components 1 and 2 and the beneficiary firms of Component
1 have received capacity support and enhanced skills that are difficult to remove.
Furthermore, the support provided to the beneficiary firms is self-sustaining, in that their
enhanced competitiveness has provided them with increased income and improved
opportunities to access finance, which will allow them to grow. One minor risk to the
sustainability of the development outcome, for the agency-level beneficiaries, is that they
may not have access to the funds or the suppliers to make repairs and maintain the
equipment that were financed by the project. However, this risk is significantly mitigated
by the fact that the national e-government body, NOSi, has conducted the digitization and
created the online systems in these agencies and has the resources to maintain them.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

99.     The Bank presented a team of experts with ample experience in the main areas of
the project: investment climate reform, matching grants for SMEs and institutional
strengthening. The team analyzed the key constraints based on the information available at
that time to increasing the competitiveness of Caboverdean SMEs—both external (the
investment climate and its policymaking institutions) and internal (business skills and
access to finance)—and designed a project to address these. They also took lessons from
the previous project (Growth and Competitiveness Project of 2003, CV-Cr. 37550), that
supported similar activities and designed a project to continue some of these while also
improving upon their design and implementation. The design incorporated the GoCV’s
vision for poverty reduction and SME development. The focus was on development
impact: the team supported the GoCV to set up an ambitious M&E system with targets that
would be linked to economic impact. The design process was moderately satisfactory in
setting up a relevant and well-structured project, with adequate stakeholder consultations.

100. Several flaws at entry were fully or at least principally the responsibility of the
WBG and could have been done better, therefore detracting from a rating of satisfactory.
These shortcomings are described in detail in Section 2.1.




                                             31
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

101. The WB team provided close supervision and support to the borrower team. The
WB team made themselves available for any questions or concerns from the borrower team,
and usually responded to their queries in a timely manner. They provided thoughtful
guidance to the borrower team, backed up by analysis and presented with examples of
international good practices. They were particularly careful to inform the borrower of the
procedures of the WBG so that they could plan their activities and expenditures accordingly.

Supervision of overall project

102. The WB team was transparent in their assessments and advice for moving forward,
as well as flexible in adapting to the changing circumstances of the project and the needs
of the clients. In the first instance, when the project faced delays in becoming effective, the
WB team provided very frank and candid Aide Memoires of the missions during that period,
as well as ISRs, that assessed the reasons for delays and made suggestions to advance the
project. Following that period, and given the seven month-delay between the project’s
approval and effectiveness and the fact that the GoCV self-financed its planned activities
in the meantime, the project team supported the restructuring of the project to finance
complementary activities. In another instance, when preliminary results from the matching
grants program found that the Chamber of Commerce of Barlavento was disbursing more
grants than that of Sotovento, the project supported a reallocation of grant resources to
Barlavento. Furthermore, the supervision missions assessed the status of the project in situ,
as the team met with all implementing agencies to discuss progress and address any lags.
Before departing Cabo Verde, the team would always hold a closing meeting in which they
conferred on the proposed content of the AM, including project status, any pending issues,
next steps and deadlines. Between missions, the team would follow up with conference
calls and emails. This approach allowed the WB-GoCV to jointly track objectives and
reach targets, thereby galvanizing the development of the project.

103. Several moderate shortcomings were noted during the implementation phase. These
were the missed opportunities to correct some of the design flaws through the two
restructurings that occurred, as described in Section 2.1 and 2.2.

Supervision of fiduciary and safeguards

104. The WBG provided sufficient support overall to the GoCV to comply with
fiduciary and safeguard requirements. Training on procurement forms and the
accompanying materials provided were helpful for the GoCV team.

105. Financial management support was equally satisfactory. The GoCV team received
fast and adequate responses from the WB FM team in Dakar.



                                             32
Role in ensuring adequate transition arrangements after closing

106. The closing arrangements were sufficient. The WB team presented a clear plan to
close the project, including WB rules regarding final disbursements and the post-project
grace period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

107. The Bank contributed to the success of the project through its global knowledge
and experience, as well as sensitivity to the local context. It therefore ensured a moderately
satisfactory design that empowered the GoCV to nearly achieve its own development
objective to reduce the cost of doing business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign
investments and enhance opportunities of small and medium enterprises to access public
procurement. The team provided diligent supervision and responded in a timely manner to
most requests, questions and changes to the priorities of the counterparts. There were
several moderate shortcomings in both the design and implementation that justify a rating
of moderately satisfactory, as noted above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

108. The GoCV was satisfactory in providing an environment in which the project could
be appropriately designed and implemented. The key counterpart of the project, the
Ministry of Finance, provided exemplary leadership, decisiveness and substantive
involvement in the design and implementation of the project, as well as its adjustment to
maintain relevance. For example, the GoCV was instrumental in ensuring coordination
among donors working in the area of private sector development in order to consolidate
meaningful reforms. Furthermore, the GoCV encouraged the cooperation among the PCU,
UCRE and NOSi to streamline business environment reforms and avoid duplication of
efforts within the GoCV. There were a few minor impediments posed by GoCV functions
and decision processes during the lifetime of the project that could have been improved.
These were: (i) the vacillation among candidates to serve as the PCU coordinator and the
eventual approval resulted in a delay of seven months between approval and effectiveness;
(ii) the delays (10 months after effectiveness) in negotiation between the GoCV and the
Chambers of Commerce to sign the required memoranda of understanding (MOUs) that
governed the policy and management of the matching grants; and (iii) the Steering
Committee meant to oversee coordination among GoCV implementing agencies, the MoF
and PCU, as well as project implementation, held only three out of its expected nine
biannual meetings. Furthermore, as noted above under section 5.1, there were several
shortcomings whose responsibility is shared between both the WB team and the GoCV.
These included deficiencies and some delays in the communication of priorities and
decisions between both parties, especially with regard to the first restructuring, and
specifically the activities associated with the Directorate of Tourism (DGT.)

                                             33
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

109. The PCU and most of the implementing agencies were fully committed to achieving
the PDO and demonstrated this through their ownership of the project and diligence in
carrying out the activities. The PCU made efforts to solve problems as they occurred,
mediate and negotiate among the various stakeholders (PCU, MoF, implementing agencies
and the WB team) in order to keep project implementation on track. A comprehensive
M&E system, including both project-level and intermediate indicators, as well as
complementary data collection by INE, allowed it to closely monitor activities and make
adjustments when needed. Financial management was sound, with all audits taking place
as planned and submitted on time. Borrower procurement processes and contract
administration were of generally good quality, reliability, timeliness, and transparency with
minor corrective actions needed by the WBG team. Procurement practices were followed
correctly, though some delays occurred due to the initial turnover of the procurement
specialist position within the PCU. Once the procurement specialist was on board, however,
the PCU and implementing agencies took charge of the project activities, owned them and
implemented them to achieve two out of the three PDO indicators as well as half of the
intermediate indicators.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

110. The GoCV, together with the PCU and implementing agencies, made satisfactory
efforts to complete a moderately successful project that met two of the three PDO
indicators and half of its intermediate targets. The partial achievement of the PDO to
enhance the competitiveness of SMEs and improve the business environment affecting
them is likely to be sustained and contribute to the overall competitiveness of the economy.

6. Lessons Learned

Technical

111. To encourage take-up of matching grants programs, conduct a
communications campaign with accessible messaging and means of communication
for SMEs and ensure that eligibility criteria are inclusive. Such campaigns should
consider local conditions and the most commonly used modes of communications. For
example, in Cabo Verde, the most effective means of raising SMEs’ awareness of the
matching grants program were face-to-face workshops and radio, while newspapers and
the Internet were found to be least effective. Such concerted outreach ensures that MG
programs are as inclusive as possible, reaching the poorest and those in remote areas, as
well as other disadvantaged entrepreneurs, such as women. Eligibility criteria should be
equally inclusive, encouraging as many SMEs to apply and qualify as possible.




                                            34
112. The implementing agency of a matching grants program is well positioned to
gather key data directly from beneficiaries on the program’s impact. Not all projects,
much less matching grants programs, can or should implement an impact evaluation.
Political reasons, lack of commitment, sample sizes, and other obstacles may render such
an evaluation impossible or undesirable. In the absence of an impact evaluation, other
monitoring and evaluation methods exist that can substantiate claims of impact. In the case
of matching grants, the implementing agency is one of the best positioned parties to gather
impact data directly from beneficiaries—both the basic data required in the M&E matrix
as well as additional quantitative and qualitative data. Teams can refer to the experience of
the recently closed MSME project in Nicaragua to see the nature of the additional data
collected by the implementing agency on the matching grants program there (P109691.)

113. Public procurement is an area of potential joint T&C/Governance support,
beset with opportunities to positively impact SMEs’ market reach. This project
demonstrated the extensive potential to affect SMEs access to public procurement by
addressing both the supply side—ie, the legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks for
procurement that can either encourage or exclude SMEs—as well as the demand side, by
addressing the ability of SMEs to compete for such contracts. The T&C practice should
explore opportunities to incorporate such activities into future operations, and leverage the
knowledge and experience of the Governance practice in this area. This is especially
prescient in Sub-Saharan Africa, where the State typically represents the largest share of
contracts and business opportunities.

Operational

114. Use caution when including macroeconomic indicators for a project that
supports limited microeconomic reforms. Attribution will be extremely difficult.
Starting at the design stage, the theory of change should clearly state the links between the
project’s inputs and each of the outcome indicators and the project should be demonstrated
to have a significant impact on the indicator. The monitoring and evaluation plan should
explain how this link will be measured and attributed directly to the project. If there are
many factors outside the scope of the project that are likely to affect an outcome indicator,
it should probably not be included. In such cases, it may be more appropriate to simply
include a concrete output indicator (such as training completed, or the establishment of an
agency or electronic platform) rather than aiming for outcomes that are not sufficiently
attributable. Engaging an M&E specialist early on can help to improve the M&E
framework and avoid the pitfalls of inappropriate indicators.

115. Establish the implementation unit by the time of effectiveness. This may seem
to be an obvious lesson, but it bears repeating based on the experience of this project. It is
critical to have a small team responsible to implement a project from the day it becomes
effective. The size of the team would be project specific. However, the core team needs to
include at least a project coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial management
specialist.




                                             35
116. Prioritize impact studies of innovative interventions. Besides the MG outcomes,
some intermediate outcomes are very interesting and could be even more informative with
beneficiary surveys. In Cabo Verde, the significant support and innovative approach to
increasing SMEs’ access to public procurement, as well as the 84 new services provided
by the mkonekta platform, would have merited additional study in order to render lessons
for future operations.

117. Conduct operational training for all PCU and implementing agency staff
involved in project implementation—even if they already have experience with WB
projects. World Bank procedures and guidelines are regularly updated and new operational
knowledge comes online constantly. It would behoove the PCU and primary staff in
implementing agencies to keep abreast of these developments. World Bank project teams
should therefore encourage and organize such trainings on a regular basis.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

118. The Borrower commented that the support of the WB was important to the success
of the project and there were no major issues raised. They rated overall WB performance
as moderately satisfactory. The Borrower’s comments on the ICR are found in Annex 7b.

(b) Cofinanciers: N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders. [See comments from MCA in Annex 8]




                                          36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Components                                          Estimate
                                      (US$ millions)                              Appraisal
                                                             (US$ millions)
Component 1                                     1.85                1.865284       100.8%
Component 2                                     2.15                1.706281       79.36%
Component 3                                     0.5                 0.679011       135.8%
             Total Baseline Cost                4.5                 4.250576       94.5%
Physical Contingencies                          0.00                0.00     0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00                0.00     0.00
              Total Project Costs               4.5                 4.250576       94.5%
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                0.00            0.00
       Total Financing Required                 4.5                 4.250576       94.5%


(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                         Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate      Estimate
                                       Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                         (US$ m)       (US$ m)
                                       Matching
Borrower                               grant        0.85             0.7          82.4%
                                       contribution
International Development
                                       Credit          4.5           4.250576     94.5%
Association (IDA)




                                                 37
Annex 2. Achievement of PDO outcomes in detail

1.      The Project aimed to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce the cost of doing
business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance
opportunities of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement. To achieve
this, the Project addressed both external (regulatory and institutional environment) and
internal constraints (skills and access to finance) to the competiveness of Caboverdean
SMEs. The three key indicators were (i) Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a
business license from 24 to 7; (ii) Reduce the cost of registering property (as percent of
property value) by 40 percent; (iii) Increase the number of SMEs that bid in the public
procurement process, as a result of the adoption of new procurement policies, from 15
(estimated) to 30, over the life of the project. Having complied with the latter two out of
these three measures, the project nearly met its objective. See Table 2.1 below.

Table 2.1 Project Development Objective Indicators

 PDO indicator/ Results     Baseline              Target              Final Result

 Reduce the number of       24                    7                   8
 days it takes to receive
 a business license from
 24 to 7
 Reduce the cost of         7.7%                  4.6%                3.7%
 registering property
 (as % of property value)
 by 40%
 Increase the # of SMEs     15                    30                  444
 that compete for
 contracts through the
 public procurement
 process from 15 to 80
 over the lifetime of the
 project

Deconstructing the PDO into three parts, the next table (2.2) demonstrates how each project
input contributed to the overall development objective and the corresponding results. The
table is followed by a detailed explanation of each observation.




                                             27
Table 2.2 Achieving the PDO – inputs & results

 Beneficiary agency     Project inputs                 Corresponding                        Results
                                                       indicators
                            Part 1 of PDO: Reduce the cost of doing business
 NOSi/Casa do           -Software for electronic       -Reduce the number of           Time reduced to 8
 Cidadão                platform for firms to obtain   days it takes to receive a       days
                        business licenses from the     business license from           42 licenses issued
                        Casa do Cidadão. Licenses      24 to 7                          from 2010-201224
                        include: retail, wholesale,
                        industrial, construction, real
                        estate and touristic.
 NOSi/SIRP              -Digitization of the property -Reduce the cost of              Cost reduced by
                        registries of Sal and Praia    registering property             52%
                        -Software of the new           (as % of property value)        Steps reduced by
                        electronic transaction         by 40%                           0%
                        system                         -Reduce the number of           Days reduced by
                                                       steps by 50%                     70%
                                                       -Reduce the number of           170% increase in
                                                       days to complete the             the average annual
                                                       transaction by 90%               number of
                                                                                        registered property
                                                                                        acquisitions in
                                                                                        Praia, post-
                                                                                        reform25

 NOSi/DGIC              -Software to monitor            n/a                            53% increase of
                        imports and exports                                             usage of online
                        -Enabling of online trade                                       TCE
                        permit (TCE – titulo de                                        45% decrease in
                        comercio externo)                                               usage of paper
                                                                                        TCE26
 NOSi/mkonekta          -Software to permit the use     n/a                            84 different
                        of mobile phones to conduct                                     services have been
                        individual and firm-level                                       established for the
                        transactions vis-à-vis the                                      mkonekta mobile
                        GoCV                                                            platform.
 ADEI                   -Study on national              n/a                            Reference for
                        entrepreneurship                                                policies on the
                                                                                        SME sector




24
   Data is sourced from the Casa do Cidadão, Praia.
25
   Between 2005 and 2009, the average annual number of registered acquisitions in Praia was 995. From
2011 to 2014, the same was 1,695, representing an increase of 170 percent. Note that it is not possible to
demonstrate attribution to project support, as market forces have likely influenced this increase, among
other factors. Data is sourced from the property registry of Praia. Time periods differ as data from 2010
was not available.
26
   In 2011, 12,526 TCEs were filed online, while in 2014 this number rose to 19,177, representing an
increase of 53%. Simultaneously, the number of TCEs filed on paper declined, from 13,519 in 2011 to
7,390 in 2014, representing a decrease of 45%. Data is sourced from the Directorate of Industry and
Commerce (DGIC) within the Ministry of Tourism, Investment and Business Development (MTIE.)

                                                      28
                     -Coordinator of the national                            Establishment of 5
                     entrepreneur incubator                                   incubators with a
                     system                                                   6th in process
DNP                  -TA to prepare the GPRSP   n/a                        Improved capacity
                     III, including the Basic Law                             of the DNP to
                     on National Planning                                     formulate policy to
                     System                                                   reduce poverty and
                                                                              stimulate growth,
                                                                              including through
                                                                              private sector
                                                                              development
MFP                -Valuation of the SOEs,      n/a                        Increased
                   Enapor and Cabnave                                         efficiency at the
                                                                              port and shipyard
                                                                              to be privatized,
                                                                              especially for
                                                                              SMEs that import
                                                                              and export
          Part 2 of PDO: Diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments
CI                 -Establishment of a one-stop n/a                        Reduction of time
                   shop (OSS) for investments                                 to handle investor
                   -New website, including on-                                interests from 6 to
                   line marketing                                             9 months (baseline
                   -Marketing plan to attract                                 in 2011) down to
                   investment in the garment                                  60-75 days today
                   and shoe industries
DGT                -Survey of the tourism       n/a                        Increased capacity
                   resources available in                                     to formulate
                   Santiago Island                                            strategy for the
                   -Training on sustainable                                   tourism sector,
                   tourism development                                        including
                   -Office equipment and a                                    diversification of
                   vehicle for these surveys to                               investments
                   be used by the DGT                                         beyond Sal and
                   -Study tour to the                                         Boa Vista
                   Seychelles
        Part 3 of PDO: Enhance opportunities of SMEs to access public procurement
NOSi/DGPCP         -Website to disseminate      -Increase the number of  444 SMEs
                   information on public        SMEs that compete for         competed for
                   procurement and track the    contracts through the         contracts through
                   number of SMEs competing public procurement                the public
                   for public contracts         process from 15 to 30,        procurement
ARAP               -Strategic and Operational   over the lifetime of the      process by the end
                   Plan, audit of processes     project                       of the project
                   -Electronic platform to                                 Shift in overall
                   manage and track                                           relationship
                   procurement processes                                      between the GoCV
                   -Introduction of ISO 9001                                  vis-à-vis SMEs in
                   into the procurement system                                the area of public
                   -Hardware, software and                                    procurement,
                   furniture for the central                                  increasing
                   service and the UGAs                                       transparency and
                   -Revision and modification                                 sustainability of
                   of the legal and regulatory                                their participation.



                                                    29
                     framework for public
                     procurement
                     -Capacity building for
                     public and private sector
                     actors involved in
                     procurement
 FCC                 -Matching grants awarded     -Higher average one     -43% higher average
                     to 136 firms to finance      year growth in sales    one year growth in
                     technical assistance         revenue of Matching     sales revenue of
                                                  Grant beneficiaries     Matching Grant
                                                  against control group   beneficiaries
                                                  -Number of              -136 beneficiaries of
                                                  beneficiaries of the    the Matching Grant
                                                  Matching Grant Fund     Fund
                                                  -Direct project         -26 female
                                                  beneficiaries, number   beneficiaries
                                                  (of which female %)     -See Table 2.4 for
                                                  -See Table 2.4 for      additional results
                                                  additional indicators

2.      Reduce the cost of doing business: The cost of doing business was significantly
decreased thanks to the project’s support, despite the fact that not all related PDO indicators
were achieved. The project supported improvement to the investment climate from two key
angles: 1) electronic platforms and process re-engineering to decrease the time and cost for
firms to complete key transactions with the administration; and 2) capacity-building for
key institutions within the GoCV responsible for the policies and strategies to increase
private investment. From the first angle, firms are expected to benefit directly from a
decrease in the cost of compliance with administrative tasks. For example, the processes to
obtain business licenses, registrations and property registration were simplified and made
more efficient. Moreover, the mkonekta electronic interface between the administration
and individuals/firms has produced a meaningful shift in the level of transparency and
efficiency in 84 different types of procedures. From the second angle, capacity support
released constraints within the GoCV that were preventing it from formulating and
administering its policies efficiently—especially those that affect firms and their cost of
business. Thereby, these capacity-building reforms also contribute indirectly to reducing
the cost of doing business.

Electronic platforms and process re-engineering
3.      UCRE (State Reform Coordinating Unit) and NOSi (Operational Unit for the
Information Society) were responsible for implementing the first set of activities, with the
objective of increasing the transparency and efficiency of business-government
interactions. The project contributed to the improvement of the investment climate in Cabo
Verde as measured by the PDO indicators, intermediate results indicators, and additional
relevant outcomes beyond the monitoring and evaluation plan. The first PDO indicator
targeted a reduction in the time to obtain a business license from 24 days to 7; the actual
time at project’s end (as measured by the Doing Business in 2015 report) was 8 days,
equivalent to a 70 percent reduction in time. To achieve this, the project supported the
development of the electronic platform to obtain licenses at the municipal level. At the
Property Registry, the project supported similar activities, as well as the digitization of
property records and the automation of internal procedures, which together reduced the
                                                 30
cost and time to complete registration in Praia and Sal. The second PDO indicator was “to
reduce the cost of registering property (as a percent of property value) by 40 percent.”
According to the original M&E plan from the appraisal stage, the baseline was quoted as
7.7 percent of property value, while the end target was 4.6 percent. The actual cost at the
end of the project was 3.7 percent – thereby surpassing the target by 20 percent. However,
it must be noted that the biggest drop in cost – from 7.7 to 3.9 percent, as result of switching
from percentage-based to fixed rate fees for property registration — happened before the
project became effective. That is, the Doing Business in 2011 report recorded this reform;
however, this report was published in September 2010, two months before the project
became effective in November 2010. Still, this reform was at least partially attributed to
the project insofar as it was included in the design and continued to be supported after the
GoCV made initial efforts to make this change.

4.       The project also supported the reduction in time and the simplification of the
process to register property, as well as the simplification of the process to obtain a business
license. The time to register a transfer of property fell from a baseline of 73 days down to
just 22, according to the latest Doing Business in 2015 report (published in October 2014.)
The General Directorate for Registry and Notary reports that a deed of compliance is now
completed within 24-48 hours and that the issuance of a Public Deed takes just 48 hours.
At the same time—though without attributing the increase directly to the project—the
number of acquisitions registered is greater today than before the reform: from 2005 to
2009, the annual registrations averaged 995; from 2011 to 2014, this average jumped by
170 percent to 1,965. In fact, the electronic platform was so successful in Praia and Sal that
the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) decided to fund the roll-out of the same system
across the remaining islands. Although the result of 22 days fell short of the target of 7
days, it still represents a significant reduction of 70 percent from the baseline. The process
to effect transfers was also simplified; although, due to differences between the Doing
Business methodology and the GoCV’s internal evaluation, the indicator fell short of its
target to reduce the number of steps from 6 to 3 (according to Doing Business, the number
of steps remained at 6.) Similarly, the process to obtain a business license was simplified
thanks to electronic records and an online platform, but for the same reasons fell short of
its target to reduce the number of steps from 9 to 3 (though still decreased to 8.)

5.      Finally, the project supported the DGIC with the installation of software and the
operationalization of an online trade permit system (TCE online) that allows exporters and
importers to conduct this procedure electronically, rather than using the previous paper-
based system. This has reduced the time and cost to traders to obtain this permit, and
relieved them of the obligation to travel to government offices for this purpose. From the
perspective of the Government, the new system provides greater security, control and
accuracy of export/import data; statistical information in real time; greater efficiency of
public services; and less time spent attending to public queries by the DGIC administration.

6.      The establishment of an electronic platform to facilitate business registration,
business licensing, property registration and trade permits has led to a reduction in the time
and cost to both firms and individuals in undertaking these activities, as well as a reduction
in the administrative costs for the GoCV. The electronic platforms supported by this project

                                              31
were so successful that NOSi has been able to market them both domestically and
internationally, selling both the systems as well as their technical expertise to install and
administer them.

7.      In addition, the project supported an innovative mobile phone platform, “mkonekta”
(www.mkonekta.gov.cv), to allow individuals and businesses to interface with the
government with even greater ease, as well as for public functionaries to perform their
duties. The program has developed 84 different types of services so far, ranging from
payments for taxes and business licenses, to tracking shipments through customs, and even
making doctor’s appointments, among many others. These have facilitated the decrease of
the time and number of procedures required to complete both commercial and individual
transactions vis-à-vis the government.

Capacity-building for key institutions within the GoCV
8.      The project aimed to strengthen the capacity of the agencies within the GoCV
tasked with devising policies, strategies and managing the private sector, particularly SMEs,
to increase its competitiveness. With such enhanced capacity it is expected that the
beneficiary agencies would be enabled to formulate more efficient and business-friendly
policies that would lower the cost of complying with administrative tasks for firms. To
attain this, the project supported the Agency for Entrepreneurial Development and
Innovation (ADEI), Directorate General of Public Heritage and Contracts (DGPCP), Cabo
Verde Investments (CI), Directorate General for Tourism (DGT), Directorate for Planning
(DNP), and the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP.) The specific support is described
below, as well as a qualitative account of its expected impacts.

9.      ADEI: ADEI is responsible the promotion of competitiveness and the development
of MSMEs, including policies that affect them. Furthermore, its mandate includes the
promotion of innovation and capacity building among entrepreneurs, as well as the
improvement of the investment climate. As ADEI was established during the project’s
design period, once the agency began fully operating, the project was able to support
several key activities to help it to fulfill its mandate. The project therefore funded a study
on national entrepreneurship and a coordinator to help implement the national entrepreneur
incubator system. The study on entrepreneurship was an important contribution to the
GoCV’s knowledge of the SME sector and will serve as a reference for its policymaking
in this area. Furthermore, after the Coordinator was installed, the number of incubators
increased from one to five, with a sixth incubator in progress. Among these, two are
specialized in Tourism and two in Agribusiness, in line with the GoCV’s goal to increase
SMEs’ participation in the tourism value chain. The establishment of these incubators also
contributes to SME capacity building and the development of the business development
service market in Cabo Verde, which was missing at the appraisal stage.

10.     DGIC: To further increase transparency and improve economic governance, the
project financed the development by NOSi of software designed to monitor import/export
operations and enable the trade permit (TCE) to be obtained online. This was a critical
addition, as the previous DGIC system that monitored customs and commercial operations
lacked the component to monitor the exchange operation.

                                             32
11.    DGPCP: Complementary to the support provided to ARAP, the WB also financed
a new website for the DGPCP to better disseminate information on public procurement,
thereby further increasing transparency and efficiency of the system, and allowing
administrators to accurately track the number of SMEs competing for public contracts. This
support was channeled through NOSi, which designed and installed the platform for
DGPCP.

12.     DNP: The project supported the DNP’s capacity to strategize for improved
economic governance. To that end, it funded TA to prepare the GPRSP III as well as a new
planning and budgeting system, including the Basic Law on National Planning System.
These are critical inputs to the GoCV’s capacity to formulate policy. The GPRSP is the
basic planning document for the GoCV’s strategy to reduce poverty, stimulate growth and
determine the related economic and social policies to achieve its objectives and targets.
The Basic Law on Planning System legally formalizes a new system of strategic planning,
and as an important step towards improved transparency and good economic governance,
identifies and integrates all public entities involved in the planning and budgeting process.

13.     MFP: The project supported the Ministry of Finance and Planning to conduct a
valuation of the State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), Enapor and Cabnave. These two entities
had been previously targeted for privatization under the Privatization and Regulatory
Capacity Building Project (PRCBP) of 2003, although it did not materialize. The inclusion
of this support was made after the mid-term review, in light of its relevance to the
investment climate and economic governance and the fact that the GoCV stood at a major
disadvantage vis-à-vis potential investors without an accurate assessment of the value of
these two SOEs. The continued operation of these SOEs would imply further losses to the
GoCV, worsening its macroeconomic situation and investors’ perceptions. Furthermore,
an eventual privatization of these port and shipyard facilities is expected to increase
efficiency therein, particularly for SMEs that import and export.

14.     To put these institutional reforms in context—without specifically claiming
attribution to this project—it is worth highlighting the progression of Cabo Verde’s ranks
on relevant indicators from the Heritage Foundation’s Index of Economic Freedom during
the project period. Cabo Verde’s overall score has been on a steady incline since the first
year of the project in 2010 with a baseline of 61.8, rising to 66.4 in 2015. Individual
indicators related to the project’s activities—trade freedom, property rights, investment
freedom, freedom from corruption, and financial freedom—also rose steadily during this
period. See figure 2.1 below.




                                             33
Figure 2.1: Cabo Verde improved in select Heritage Foundation indicators over the
lifetime of the project
80
75                                                                                                   75

70                                                                                                   70
                                                                                                       69.6
         65.5                                                                                        66.4
65        65
         61.8
60        60                                                                                         60
                                                                                                     58
55
50         51

45
40
            2010               2011           2012              2013            2014             2015
                   overall score              property rights              freedom from corruption
                   trade freedom              investment freedom           financial freedom


Diversify target regions receiving foreign investments

15.     During the design stage, this was included as part of the PDO as it was intended
that the project would contribute to diversifying FDI towards the less favored islands at the
time, that is, those outside of Sal and Boa Vista, and towards sectors other than tourism.
The support to achieve this goal was mainly directed to Cabo Verde Investimentos (CI.)
To measure this part of the objective, a fourth PDO indicator was originally included: the
diversification of the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other
sectors in Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI)
of concentration of FDI. However, in January 2014 (one year before project close) the
GoCV entered into discussions with the WB team on the replacement of this indicator with
the following output measure: “creation of an electronic one-stop shop for international
investments.”27 This indicator was achieved. The former indicator on HHI persisted in all
official documentation (the second restructuring agreement, subsequent ISRs) until
January 2015, when the new indicator was entered in the last ISR. By this new indicator,
the project indeed achieved or nearly achieved all 3 PDO indicators. It is expected that the
support to create the electronic one-stop shop for international investments at CI has
contributed to its capacity to attract FDI, handle investor queries, host visits and eventually
convert expressions of interest into actual commitments and investments in the country.28



27
   The M&E specialist’s report that documents this discussion on the change of the PDO indicator is found
in Annex 9.
28
   While CI expects that its conversion rate—from queries to visits to commitments—will improve with the
capacity building provided by this project, they do not yet have the data to demonstrate such an

                                                     34
Project inputs to CI and the DGT led to increased capacity to diversify the target regions
receiving foreign investments, as described in Table 2.2 and below:

16.     CI: Cabo Verde Investments is the national investment promotion agency. It is
responsible for promotion, marketing and investor handling for the country. The purpose
of the project’s support to CI was to help CI fulfill the GoCV’s goal of diversifying the
sectors and geography of incoming FDI, and improve CI’s capacity to realize its mandate.
The PDO indicator associated with measuring these expected results was originally
“Diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in
Cabo Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI) of
concentration of FDI,” though this was later scrapped during the project’s lifetime as an
inadequate and non-attributable indicator for the project. As mentioned above, it was later
replaced with the output indicator “create an electronic one-stop shop for international
investments.” The project continued to support CI to improve its investment promotion
capacity through the following activities: the establishment of a one-stop shop (OSS) for
investments; the launch of a new website, including on-line marketing; and a marketing
plan to attract investment in the garment and shoe industries. The activities were completed
through various technical assistance, goods and services. The OSS benefited from a new
regulatory framework and the design of its digital platform. Furthermore, hardware,
software, furniture and an improved workspace were financed, in addition to manuals and
training for the staff. Technical assistance and IT support allowed the launch of the new
website and online marketing tools, as well as the specific marketing plan to attract
investment in the garment and shoe industries geared towards Portuguese investors.

17.    Thanks to this support, the performance of CI in terms of investor handling has
improved from a baseline of six to nine months, as measured in 2011 by the World Bank
Global Investment Promotion Benchmarking report, down to 60 to 75 days today.
Furthermore, the specific support to the OSS and online platform has allowed CI to respond
immediately to investor queries, thereby improving its ability to attract and manage FDI.

18.     Anecdotally, and without claiming any correlation to the project, the trend of FDI
inflows to Cabo Verde should be noted: in fact, Cabo Verde has suffered a decline in FDI
since 2008, when net inflows reached 12 percent of GDP. It decreased sharply in 2009 to
2010 to 7 percent, to 5 percent in 2011, 4 percent in 2012, and a mere 2 percent in 2013.
The trend is not surprising, given the exposure Cabo Verde had to the financial and
economic crisis through its principally European investors and tourists. Official data for
2014 is not available, although, in terms of attempting to diversify its incoming FDI
geographically and sectorally, CI reports that four investors expressed interest in
manufacturing projects, although only two of these have been realized so far, and both are
Cabo Verdean in origin. In 2015, nine manufacturing projects have been approved to take
place in Fogo, Sal and Santiago islands amounting to a total value of 6.5 million euros.




improvement. However with the implementation of the one-stop shop for investments, they expect to be
able to electronically track this data from now on.

                                                  35
19.     DGT: The project supported the DGT to increase its capacity to strategize and
manage the tourism sector with greater efficiency and transparency. The project financed
the following activities to this end: a survey of the tourism resources available in Santiago
Island; training on sustainable tourism development; as well as office equipment and a
vehicle for these surveys to be used by the DGT. In order to support the development of a
new structure within the GoCV to manage the tourism sector, the project funded the DGT’s
participation in a study tour to the Seychelles. As a result of these activities, the DGT’s
capacity was improved and allowed the recently established Ministry of Tourism,
Investment and Business Development (MTIE) to design a new National Tourism Institute
within the GoCV.

20.     Similarly, anecdotal evidence points to improving investor perceptions of Cabo
Verde (as well as many other factors beyond the scope of this project). Two major foreign
direct investments have been recently announced: the Canary Islands Government intends
to invest 110m EUR in Cabo Verde, while a new resort, Perola Negra, will be opened in
the island of Sao Vicente and is expected to create 1,380 jobs. Despite the positive signals
brought about by these impending investments, it is not possible to identify the project’s
contribution to them nor measure their effect on the HHI.

Enhance opportunity of small and medium enterprises to access public procurement

21.     The matching grants29 program aimed to address the internal constraints preventing
Caboverdean SMEs30 from being competitive, particularly their lack of technical skills and
access to finance, while the support to ARAP (described above) aimed to address the
external constraints to SMEs’ access to public procurement. To this effect, the firm-level
targets set in the intermediate results indicators were exceeded. Matching grants amounting
to US$ 700,845 were provided to 136 SMEs, of which 25 were led by women, surpassing
the targets of 100 firms with 20 percent led by women. Matching grants were provided
across all eligible sectors (as per IDA rules) and in nine inhabited islands. Twenty-six
percent of beneficiaries were located outside of the main urban centers of Praia (Santiago
Island) and Mindelo (Sao Vicente Island); in the first year of the program, 2012, 36 percent
of the universe of Caboverdean firms were found outside of these two islands.31 Finally,
the target of the PDO indicator to increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts
in the public procurement system was far surpassed (444 over the lifetime of the project,
compared to the target of 30.)

22.    ARAP: In Cabo Verde, the State is one of the largest domestic procurers of goods
and services. The substantial support provided to improve public procurement was
included in this project as it was expected that improving SMEs’ access to this market
would allow them the opportunity to expand their business, derive steady income from


29
  The MG activity was managed by the two Chambers of Commerce of Barlavento (Northern islands) and
Sotovento (Southern islands.)


31
     National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Annual Survey of Firms 2013.

                                                       36
longer-term contracts, and improve their chances of access to finance. On the one hand,
this support was on the ‘supply’ side—that is, legal, regulatory and institutional support to
ARAP and the UGAs, responsible for public procurement within the GoCV. On the other
hand, this support was directed to improving SMEs’ demand to access public procurement
contracts by providing specific training on procurement through ARAP, as well as by
improving their overall competitiveness through the MG program.

23.     Specifically, ARAP is the agency responsible for making and administering
national policies on procurement. It regulates, supervises and resolves and conflicts related
to public procurement on behalf of the GoCV. Importantly, each independent agency of
the GoCV is responsible for conducting its own procurement, according to the regulations
set by ARAP. In order to fulfill the project’s objective of enhancing opportunities of SMEs
to access public procurement, the third PDO indicator was to “increase the number of
SMEs that compete for contracts through the public procurement process from 15 to 80,
over the lifetime of the project.” While this target was later revised downward to 30, the
intent to encourage more SMEs to participate in public procurement remained. This target
was far surpassed: by the end of the project, 444 SMEs had competed for contracts through
the public procurement process. Additional SMEs were trained in public procurement in
order to improve their ability to compete for contracts.

24.     Moreover, a monumental shift in the GoCV’s relationship vis-à-vis SMEs has
occurred in the area of public procurement, largely thanks to this project. The surpassing
of the PDO target is one indication, though additional structural reforms have taken place
that will continue to encourage SMEs to compete for public contracts and track their
participation—making this shift sustainable. The project made public procurement more
transparent and efficient by strengthening the legal and institutional framework, training
staff and purchasing goods and services. The project supported the modernization of the
national procurement system, addressing remaining issues in the legal and institutional
framework with a view to fostering competition, avoiding conflict of interest and
improving internal controls of procurement transactions handled by the contracting
authorities.

25.     The project also helped ARAP to become fully operational, as well as the
procurement services (UGAs and UGAC) of contracting authorities. These UGAs are the
responsible teams in each ministry for procurement. They now enjoy an online
procurement platform that allows them to track—and therefore encourage—SMEs’
participation. To achieve this goal, the project supported the institutional strengthening of
ARAP, including a Strategic and Operational Plan that would install a new organizational
design, define objectives in the management process, adopt performance indicators and a
M&E system, and install new technology to manage and track the processes. Secondly, the
project financed the introduction of ISO 9001into the procurement system in order to
promote improved quality of the management system, introduce internal audits, and other
quality controls to conform to the ISO 9001 norms. The project also financed hardware,
software and furniture to equip the central service and the UGAs; audits of systems and
processes; and an extensive revision and modification of the legal and regulatory
framework for public procurement.

                                             37
26.     In terms of the regulatory framework, the project supported: (i) an update of the
existing procurement law and regulations, as well as new implementing regulations to
promote efficiency and eliminate provisions that result in reduced competition or a lack of
transparency. Specifically, the project addressed: (i) the numerous sole source provisions
that allowed an abusive use of this method of selection; (ii) the restrictive mandatory
certification provisions for international bidders; (iii) the restrictive eligibility practices for
national competitive bidding that limited participation among local bidders; (iv) practices
that led to conflicts of interest at the level of procurement regulatory authority (ARAP); (v)
clarification of ARAP’s certification role in relation to UGA; (vi) the need for private
sector representation ARAP’s board of directors, and (vii) the absence of the implementing
rules and regulations for handling complaints from bidders. The project also supported the
establishment of a Procurement directorate, under DGPCP, at the level of the Ministry of
Finance, in order to ensure effective internal controls of procurement transactions handled
by the UGAs and UGAC (under the DGPOG of the Ministry of Finance).

27.     Capacity was strengthened through the implementation of the national procurement
capacity building program. This included civil service staff responsible for the operation
of the procurement system, firms (especially SMEs), suppliers and contractors
participating in bidding. The capacity building program ensured that training was extended
not only to larger firms but in particular to SMEs that were less knowledgeable about public
procurement procedures but were interested in bidding for public contracts.

28.    DGPCP: Complementary to the support provided to ARAP, the WB also financed
a new website for the DGPCP to better disseminate information on public procurement,
thereby further increasing transparency and efficiency of the system, and allowing
administrators to accurately track the number of SMEs competing for public contracts. This
support was channeled through NOSi, which designed and installed the platform for
DGPCP.

Table 2.3: Summary data on the FCC beneficiary firms
                              Type of company
 FCC      Year     Number     MSME SME          Group      Business      Total           Female
 Round             of Co-                       of         association   beneficiaries   beneficiaries
                   financed                     MSMEs                    in this round   in this round
                   projects
 1        2012     33         5        19       5          4             38              9
 2        2013     28         3        22       2          1             30              5
 3        2014     37         7        24       4          2             68              11
 Total             98         15       65       11         7             136             25
 Percentage of     100%       15%      66%      11%        7%            100%            18%
 total

29.     Matching grants program (FCC): In order to achieve the beneficiaries’ objectives
as laid out in their applications, the grants were put towards technical assistance that
included training to introduce new technology, diversify products, improve their
management, marketing, business plans and train their employees. During the program’s


                                                38
implementation from 2012 to January 201532, the beneficiaries raised their average one-
year growth in sales revenue by 43 percent over and above a comparable group of
Caboverdean SMEs, compared to the target of 7.5 percent. Even though they were not part
of the project’s indicators, the team and PCU requested that INE collect additional data on
the beneficiaries and their comparable counterparts in the economy (See Annex 7b for the
entire report and its methodology.) For example, a survey found that 56 percent of
Caboverdean SMEs were aware of the matching grants program, pointing to the relative
success of the outreach efforts by the Chambers of Commerce (also funded by the project.)
Of these, it was found that the most effective means of outreach were, in order: workshops
organized by the Chambers of Commerce; radio; television, internet, and lastly
newspapers.33 The data further demonstrated that among the beneficiary firms, 32 percent
launched firm-level new products, compared to 13 percent of non-beneficiaries during the
same period; 57 percent undertook training for their employees, compared to 26 percent of
non-beneficiaries; and 68 percent adopted new technology, compared to 27 percent of non-
beneficiaries. A difference-in-difference analysis is conducted in Table 2.4 below, using
this data. To put these results in context, 61.5 percent of a representative sample of
Caboverdean entrepreneurs report that they have no technological innovation to offer their
clients. This compares favorably to much higher proportions of similar samples of
entrepreneurs in the Caribbean that report the same lack of innovation: 67.8 percent in
Barbados; 75.5 in Jamaica; 76.5 in Suriname; and 82.8 in Trinidad & Tobago.34

30.  These results were measured during the effective implementation period of
Component 1b. These were confirmed through self-reporting, with verification by INE.

31.   Further to the indicators tracked by the project, supplementary data collected by
INE demonstrate the extensive results associated with this project and the beneficiary
SMEs compared to a similar group of non-beneficiary firms in Cabo Verde. These are
summarized in Table 2.4 below.




32
   The duration of the matching grants program was from 2012 to January 2015. However, the data
presented here is only through the year 2013 because INE collects data from tax records, which are only
reported by May 31 of the subsequent year. Hence at the time of writing this ICR, such data is not available
for the year 2014.
33
   National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Study n.º 2 on the Impact of the Fund for Growth and
Competitiveness (FCC.)
34
   ADEI. “Elaboração de um inquerito às pequenas e médias empresas relativo às atitudes sobre o
empreendedorismo.” [Entrepreneurship study final draft report, funded by the Project.] 2015.

                                                    39
Table 2.4: Indicative difference-in-difference analysis of FCC impact on beneficiary
firms35
 Supplementary        Non-beneficiary     Beneficiary         Non-beneficiary     Beneficiary         Assumed treatment
 indicator            result in 2012      result in 2012      result in 2013      result in 2013      effect of the FCC
                                                                                                      (difference-in-
                                                                                                      difference)

 Average annual       29                  60                  -25                 18                  12
 growth of
 turnover
 compared to
 previous year
 (%)
 Firms that…
 Launched a new       21                  36                  28                  50                  3
 advertising
 campaign for
 their products
 (%)
 Introduced a         13                  32                  19                  42                  4
 new product (%)
 Invested in          26                  57                  34                  70                  5
 employee
 training (%)
 Participated in a    22                  48                  31                  59                  2
 domestic trade
 fair in the last 3
 years (%)
 Participated in a    9                   18                  13                  41                  19
 trade fair abroad
 in the last 3
 years (%)
 Improved their       27                  68                  36                  58                  -19
 production
 technology in
 the last 3 years
 Contracted local     22                  93                  23                  97                  3
 consultancy
 services in the
 last 3 years

32.    At the firm level, the results seen here, in terms of increased turnover, use of
improved technology and improved production processes, among others, indicate an
increased level of competitiveness among the beneficiary firms, compared to a similar
sample of domestic firms. At the economy level, improved competitiveness among firms
is expected to lead to sustained long-term growth.



35
  These values are noted as ‘indicative’ because INE did not provide firm-level data, but only the
aggregate values for each group of beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries. Therefore it is not possible to
calculate the standard deviation and hence the statistical significance of the difference-in-difference results.

                                                      40
33.     These impacts are generally positive. While comparison with the trends among
non-beneficiary firms in Cabo Verde point to a potential causal relationship between the
project’s intervention and the reported impacts, since the project did not include a rigorous
impact evaluation, it is impossible to determine any stronger attribution than what is
presented here using an indicative difference-in-difference analysis. However, it is notable
that these results are broadly in line with those seen in 36 rigorous studies on similar
matching programs across 18 countries (14 in Latin America, 4 in Sub-Saharan Africa). A
meta-analysis of the data from these studies found that matching grants programs tend to
lead to positive effects on firm performance, employment and investment.36

34.     In terms of social impact, the program also benefited Cabo Verde’s rural firms on
the more remote islands outside of Sao Vicente and Santiago, counting 26 percent of
beneficiaries on such islands. Together these firms in more remote islands comprised 36
percent of the population of all firms in the first year of the matching grants program, 2012.
However, the Chambers of Commerce—particularly Barlavento—made a concerted effort
to include them in this program as they tend to suffer disproportionally from poverty and
unemployment.

35.      In terms of gender, 26 of the beneficiary firms were led by women, exceeding the
project’s target of 20 firms. According to the Enterprise Surveys of 2009, during the design
phase of this project only 16.7 percent of Caboverdean firms had a female top manager. In
this light, the target of 20 and the attainment of 26 female-led beneficiaries (18 percent of
the 136 total) are notable. However, the same data showed that 33.1 percent of firms had
full or partial female ownership; similarly, data published by INE for 2013 showed that the
average rate of women-led firms across the country was 34 percent. Compared to these
INE data, the target and result for gender inclusion may appear modest.

36.      While the aggregate statistics give the broad-stroke picture of the impact of the FCC,
it is also useful to delve into the details to understand how the project affected individual
firms. Several illustrative stories follow, based on data and interviews with selected
beneficiaries during the ICR mission in February 2015.

37.     Puragua. Founded in 2003, Puragua is a bottled-water processor located on the
island of Sao Vicente, managed by Mr. Mario Mariano.37 Puragua is rather unique in the
Cabo Verde, as the market for bottled water has been dominated by Portuguese brands. Yet
thanks to the FCC, Puragua has become more competitive. With FCC-funded assistance,
Puragua received its ISO 22000 certification as well as training on good food safety
practices, from the bottling phase to delivery to the consumer. With this certification, it has
been able to expand its business and as a result, hired two additional employees.



36
   Caio Piza, Lauro Gonzalez, Linnet Taylor, Tulio Antonio Cravo, Samer Abdelnour, Isabel Musse,
Isabela Furtado, Ana Cristina Sierra. The Impact of Business Support Services for Small and Medium
Enterprises on Firm Performance in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A Systematic Review. Campbell
Systematic Reviews 20xx:x. DOI: 10.4073/csr.200x.x. As of May 29, 2015, this paper is still in draft.
37
   For more information, see this related article on Puragua: http://noticiasdonorte.publ.cv/11575/puragua-
um-caso-de-sucesso-na-aposta-na-qualidade-da-agua/

                                                    41
38.     Clinica Medicentro. Medicentro is a private medical clinic, also in Mindelo, Sao
Vicente. It was founded by Andres Fidalgo, a doctor from Cuba.38 Medicentro was a client
of both the first FCC program, as well as the second program funded by this project. The
first FCC funded Dr. Fidalgo’s feasibility study for the clinic, without which he would not
have been able to obtain a bank loan. The second FCC supported the usage of new medical
software in the clinic. As a result of this support, the quality of Medicentro’s services
improved. In part thanks to this improvement, and also as a result of the clinic’s expanding
business, they have grown from a staff of seven doctors and one nurse, to 23 doctors and
nine nurses today.

39.     Fabrica de Gabioes SPGR. SPGR, managed by Ana Cristina Pereira Silva and her
husband, is a producer of wire-mesh gabions that prevent erosion and rockslides along the
roads in Cabo Verde. These products also serve to encase rocks to make durable and
environmentally-friendly walls. Ana Cristina took advantage of FCC support to obtain
training for her staff in new production techniques. Similar to the case of Puragua, the
market for gabions has been dominated by Portuguese and other international firms that
enjoy higher levels of technology and automatic production, while SPGR makes their
products by hand. FCC support has therefore been vital in increasing the competitiveness
of SPGR.

Lack of attribution of two intermediate outcome indicators

40.     Two intermediate outcome indicators were included in the M&E framework that,
in retrospect, and perhaps at the design stage, cannot be reasonably attributed to the project
due to the many factors affecting them that were outside the scope of influence of the
project and even the GoCV. These indicators are: “Indirect project beneficiaries (people
gainfully employed)” and “indirect project beneficiaries (number) of which female (% of
labor force.)” While the first indicator failed to reach the target (185,486 employed people
compared to the target 196,000), the second one surpassed it (45.8 percent compared to the
target 45 percent.) Neither of these results can be plausibly credited to the project, however.
Their inclusion in the M&E framework is a point of discussion in Section 2.3 in the main
text.




38
  For more information, see this related article on Medicentro:
http://www.asemana.publ.cv/spip.php?article63463

                                                    42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The project appraisal document included a quantitative analysis for the matching grant
subcomponent 1.b, estimating a NPV of US$1.9 million and an ERR of 43 percent. The remaining
activities focused on regulatory and institutional reforms were justified based on the expected
effects as found in the literature, as well as cost-effectiveness. For Component 1.a, business
environment reform support, a qualitative analysis was conducted, based on a review of the
literature related to business environment reforms in general as well as the specific ones related to
business entry, property registration and the insolvency framework. The support for these three
types of reforms were expected to, respectively: yield increased firm registrations and higher
productivity among existing firms; facilitate the use of land as collateral; and improve debt
collection and therefore ease lending. The economic analysis refrained from any formal ex-ante
evaluation of the institutional reforms in the absence of any accepted methodology for the same.

2.      For Component 1.a, indeed, the average annual number of new business registrations
during the project’s lifetime was 43 percent higher than in the years prior.39 However, in the
absence of any rigorous impact evaluation, it is not possible to directly attribute this increase to
the eased business entry procedures supported by the project. Rather, market dynamics are more
likely to have affected the increase, among other factors. Still, it is possible to calculate the direct
cost compliance savings for the firms that registered and benefitted from the decreased time to
obtain a license. Measured as such, from 2011 to 2014, firms that registered and applied for a
license saved a total of US$ 427,706, based on the average national wage (US$ 6.87/day)40, the
number of firm registrations per year, and the days required to obtain a license (from a baseline of
24, decreasing to 11 days in 2011, to 8 days from 2012 onwards.) If the time to register remains
steady at 8 days, and the trend of registrations remains the same, then it can be expected that the
annual savings to firms will continue to average US$108,601. Five years post-completion, firms
will have potentially saved US$ 543,005, in addition to the US$ 427,706 that has already been
saved (US$ 820,711.) As a net present value, subject to a discount rate of 12 percent, this savings
is US$ 376,793. See Table 2 below. This savings compares favorably to the US$ 150,000 of project
funds dedicated to technical assistance to improve the efficiency of these licenses.

Table 2: Cost savings to firms from decreased time to obtain a license
                             Days to get                      Cost to the firms that
 Year        Registrations                  Daily wage                                  Cost savings
                             a license                        registered

     2008             462              24           6.87                      $76,175                  $0
     2009             782              24           6.87                     $128,936                  $0
     2010             909              24           6.87                     $149,876                  $0




39
   Data sourced from the Casa do Cidadão. Annual average business registrations from 2008-2010 was 718 firms,
while from 2011-2014 it was 1,026, although note that these time periods differ for lack of additional data.
40
   Cabo Verde instituted its first minimum wage in January 2014 at 11,000 escudos per month. Dividing this by 20
working days and using the exchange rate at the time, the daily wage was US$ 6.87 per day. Source:
http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/227138.pdf

                                                         44
     2011            1141               11            6.87                   $86,225             $101,903
     2012              944               8            6.87                   $51,882             $103,764
     2013            1002                8            6.87                   $55,070             $110,140
     2014            1018                8            6.87                   $55,949             $111,899


                             Total US$ cost savings for these firms                              $427,706


                             (Average annual cost savings once time reached 8 days              $108,601)


                             Expected savings for 5 years post-completion                        $543,005


                             Project financing to support licenses reforms                      -$150,000
                             Total net cost compliance savings during the project +
                             5 years post-completion                                             $820,711
                             Total net present value of cost compliance savings
                             (discount rate 12%)                                                 $376,793
Data on registrations sourced from the Casa do Cidadão

3.     Secondly, while the number of registered property acquisitions increased by 66 percent
during the project compared to the years prior, this was likely influenced by other factors in
addition to project support to ease the process. Finally, as the envisaged support to the insolvency
framework was not fully realized (only the digital platform to register business closings), and data
was not collected on improved debt collection nor increased lending, it is not possible to determine
the economic impact of this particular support.

4.      The ex-post analysis of the results of subcomponent 1.b demonstrate a number of positive
effects of the matching grants program on its 136 beneficiaries, the most quantifiable being their
increase in turnover. While turnover numbers were only available for a sample of 39 of the
beneficiaries for the years 2011-2013, if the trend of growth is assumed to be the same for the
entire group of beneficiaries, they increased their average turnover by 60 percent in 2012 (over the
baseline of 2011) and by 18 percent the following year. Data on turnover from the third and final
round of the FCC in 2014 was not available at the time of writing this ICR. In total, the 68
beneficiaries of the first two rounds of the FCC can be assumed to have generated a total of US$ 63
million in turnover from 2012-2013.41

5.      Efficiency is also measured by operating costs as a proportion of total disbursements. This
is measured at the project level as well as at the subcomponent level in terms of the matching
grants program. For the entire project, US$ 679,011 was spent on Component 3, supporting project
implementation. This is 32 percent of the total amount disbursed from the project (US$ 2,107,668.)
For (imperfect) comparison, the previous Growth & Competitiveness Project in Cabo Verde


41
  Data is sourced from INE on the sample of 39 firms. If it is assumed that the average annual turnover is consistent
across the entire group of 136 beneficiaries, then the first round of 38 firms generated US$ 27m, while the second
round of 30 firms generated US$26m. Data for the third round is not available at the time of writing this ICR.

                                                         45
(P074055, US$ 12.45m) spent 18.2 percent on project implementation; the St. Lucia OECS Skills
for Inclusive Growth Project spent 35 percent of the total project cost on implementation (P097141,
US$ 5.52m 42 ); in the Maldives, the Mobile Phone Banking Project (P107981, US$ 5.86m)
dedicated 26 percent to project implementation; while the Timor L’Este Second Small Enterprise
Development Project (P072654, US$ 7.4m) provided 24 percent of its financing for project
implementation support. 43 It should be noted that each of these projects were larger than this
project in Cabo Verde.

6.      For the matching grants program, the cost of management (US$ 299,155) was 29.9 percent
of the total disbursed for that subcomponent, US$ 1,000,000. This compares favorably to similar
programs around the world: Argentina, 36 percent; Indonesia, 47 percent; Kenya, 57 percent; and
Mauritius, 19 percent.


7.      While the project did not include an ex-ante economic analysis, based on a literature review,
it was expected to yield a positive ERR. An ex-post analysis confirmed this expectation, based on
the results of Components 1 and 2 only, in the absence of generally accepted methods to quantify
the effects of the types of regulatory and institutional reforms supported by Component 4. A partial
NPV is calculated for the job creation results of the beneficiaries of Component 2 only, as a proxy
for the overall effects of the program: US$ 4.6 million.

8.      Regulatory and institutional support is justified based on cost-effectiveness. Although a
formal quantitative analysis was not done at appraisal and is not possible now, due to the capacity-
building nature of most activities, it is possible to compare the level of investment in each activity
with the positive results attained. In all cases, investments coincided with increased participation
of firms in the formal sector—whether as first-time registrants of their business or property,
candidates for public procurement contracts, or beneficiaries of more efficient trade logistics
procedures. These outcomes are also expected to lead to indirect economic impacts, such as job
creation, increased productivity of firms, and improved competitiveness. These are described in
detail in Table 3.1 below.




42
   Note that in St. Lucia, US$ 3.69 was disbursed from IDA, although additional financing from the GoStL and the
private sector raised the total funds of the project to US$ 5.52m.
43
   This data is gathered from the ICR of each respective project. Project implementation support refers in each case
to the total amount dedicated to the project implementation unit, or otherwise referred to as the project coordination
unit.

                                                          46
Table 3.1: Support to regulatory and institutional frameworks: inputs, direct and indirect
outcomes

 Beneficiary agency     Project inputs                 Direct outcomes                   Indirect outcomes
                             Part 1 of PDO: Reduce the cost of doing business
 NOSi/Casa do           -Software for electronic        Time to obtain a                New firm
 Cidadão                platform for firms to obtain       license reduced to 8           registrations lead to
                        registration and licenses from     days                           a broadened tax
                        the Casa do Cidadão.            42 licenses issued               base and are
                        Licenses include: retail,          from 2010-201244               associated with
                        wholesale, industrial,          43% increase in                  increased
                        construction, real estate and      business                       productivity and
                        touristic.                         registrations                  job creation
 NOSi/SIRP              -Digitization of the property   Cost reduced by                 Registration of
                        registries of Sal and Praia        52%                            property titles
                        -Software of the new            Steps reduced by                 increases access to
                        electronic transaction system      0%                             finance as these
                                                        Days reduced by                  can be used as
                                                           70%                            collateral
                                                        170% increase in the
                                                           average annual
                                                           number of registered
                                                           property
                                                           acquisitions in Praia,
                                                           post-reform45

 NOSi/DGIC              -Software to monitor imports        53% increase of             Lower time to trade
                        and exports                          usage of online TCE          is associated with
                        -Enabling of online trade           45% decrease in              higher volumes of
                        permit (TCE – titulo de              usage of paper               trade, especially
                        comercio externo)                    TCE46                        export of time-
                                                                                          sensitive goods
                                                                                          (such as
                                                                                          agricultural
                                                                                          products)
 NOSi/mkonekta          -Software to permit the use         84 different services       Fewer interactions
                        of mobile phones to conduct          have been                    between the private
                        individual and firm-level            established for the          sector and
                        transactions vis-à-vis the           mkonekta mobile              Government
                        GoCV                                 platform.                    administration
                                                                                          decreases
                                                                                          opportunities for



44
   Data is sourced from the Casa do Cidadão, Praia.
45
   Between 2005 and 2009, the average annual number of registered acquisitions in Praia was 995. From 2011 to
2014, the same was 1,695, representing an increase of 170 percent. Note that it is not possible to demonstrate
attribution to project support, as market forces have likely influenced this increase, among other factors. Data is
sourced from the property registry of Praia.
46
   In 2011, 12,526 TCEs were filed online, while in 2014 this number rose to 19,177, representing an increase of
53%. Simultaneously, the number of TCEs filed on paper declined, from 13,519 in 2011 to 7,390 in 2014,
representing a decrease of 45%. Data is sourced from the Directorate of Industry and Commerce (DGIC) within the
Ministry of Tourism, Investment and Business Development (MTIE.)

                                                        47
                                                                                         corruption,
                                                                                         increases
                                                                                         transparency
 ADEI                  -Study on national                  Reference for               Increased
                       entrepreneurship                     policies on the SME          churning—and
                       -Coordinator of the national         sector                       therefore
                       entrepreneur incubator              Establishment of 5           competitiveness—
                       system                               incubators with a 6th        of the SME
                                                            in process                   population47
 DNP                   -TA to prepare the GPRSP            Improved capacity           Poverty reduction,
                       III, including the Basic Law         of the DNP to                private sector
                       on National Planning System          formulate policy to          development and
                                                            reduce poverty and           growth
                                                            stimulate     growth,
                                                            including through
                                                            private         sector
                                                            development
 MFP                   -Evaluation of the SOEs,            Increased efficiency     
                                                                                    Lower time to trade
                       Enapor and Cabnave                   at the port and         is associated with
                                                            shipyard to be          higher volumes of
                                                            privatized,             trade, especially
                                                            especially for SMEs     export of time-
                                                            that import and         sensitive goods
                                                            export                  (such as
                                                                                    agricultural
                                                                                    products)
               Part 2 of PDO: Diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments
 CI                    -Establishment of a one-stop    Reduction of time to  Increase in FDI48
                       shop (OSS) for investments          handle investor
                       -New website, including on-         interests from 6 to 9
                       line marketing                      months (baseline in
                       -Marketing plan to attract          2011) down to 60-
                       investment in the garment           75 days today
                       and shoe industries
 DGT                   -Survey of the tourism          Increased capacity        Tourism strategy is
                       resources available in              to formulate strategy    expected to feed
                       Santiago Island                     for the tourism          into investment
                       -Training on sustainable            sector, including        promotion strategy,
                       tourism development                 diversification of       thereby increasing
                       -Office equipment and a             investments beyond       the potential for
                       vehicle for these surveys to        Sal and Boa Vista        FDI into this sector
                       be used by the DGT
                       -Study tour to the Seychelles
             Part 3 of PDO: Enhance opportunities of SMEs to access public procurement
                                  (regulatory and institutional support)



47
   Nicola Dee, David Gill, Robert Lacher, Finbarr Livesey and Tim Minshall. “A review of research on the role and
effectiveness of business incubation for high-growth start-ups.” No: 2012/01, January 2012. Institute for
Manufacturing, University of Cambridge, UK. Found on:
http://www.ifm.eng.cam.ac.uk/uploads/Research/CTM/Resources/12_01_dee_minshall.pdf
48
   Morisset, Jacques. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 2038. “Does a country need a promotion agency
to attract foreign direct investment? A small analytical model applied to 58 countries.” See:
http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDSContentServer/IW3P/IB/2003/05/23/000094946_03051404103335/Re
ndered/PDF/multi0page.pdf

                                                       48
 NOSi/DGPCP          -Website to disseminate           444 SMEs competed        SMEs that win
                     information on public              for contracts             such contracts
                     procurement and track the          through the public        expand their
                     number of SMEs competing           procurement process       business and then
                     for public contracts               by the end of the         may create jobs
 ARAP                -Strategic and Operational         project
                     Plan, audit of processes
                     -Electronic platform to
                     manage and track
                     procurement processes
                     -Introduction of ISO 9001
                     into the procurement system
                     -Hardware, software and
                     furniture for the central
                     service and the UGAs
                     -Revision and modification
                     of the legal and regulatory
                     framework for public
                     procurement

9.     It should be noted, however, that the relationship between inputs, direct and indirect
outcomes is not linear—market forces, rather than streamlined procedures, are more likely to have
determined the demand for licenses and registrations, for example. An improved business
environment is a key contributing factor to such increased economic activity, though not the only
determinant.

10.     The direct support to firms provided through Component 1.b, the FCC matching grants
program, is also justified based on cost-effectiveness. As with the other components, a full
quantitative analysis is not possible now, due to data constraints as well as the positive externalities
generated by training and technical assistance to firms. However, it is possible to partially report
on the effects of the intervention, using increased turnover as a proxy. The 68 project beneficiaries
in rounds 1 and 2 of the FCC generated US$ 63 million in turnover in the years 2012 and 2013.
The matching grants mechanism ensured that participating firms were committed to the
improvements supported by the project and made efficient use of the training and equipment.
However, it should be emphasized that the economic benefits of the matching grants program goes
far beyond the increased turnover generated. The program supported a high-level of
competitiveness among the beneficiary firms, as marked by their greater likelihood to launch new
products and participate in trade fairs. Competitiveness is also related to overall sustainable growth
of the economy. Likewise, investment in training is associated with higher firm-level productivity.
As these outcomes are intertwined (e.g., innovation is associated with higher productivity, sales
and job creation), the change in turnover of the beneficiaries compared to the non-beneficiaries
stands as a proxy for the overall effect of the program.




                                                   49
Table 3.2: Support to firms: inputs, direct and indirect outcomes
               Part 3 of PDO: Enhance opportunities of SMEs to access public procurement
                            (firm-level support through the FCC matching grants)
 Input                                 Direct outcome of beneficiaries     Indirect outcome
                                       compared to non-beneficiaries
                                       over the period 2011-201349
 Matching grants to finance             12% greater average annual         Greater revenue is expected
 training, technical assistance,           growth of turnover                  to lead to job creation
 international certifications,          3% more launched a new             Advertising is expected to
 management and financial skills           advertising campaign for            lead to increased sales
                                           their products
                                        4% more introduced a new           Introduction of new product
                                           product                             is associated with higher
                                                                               productivity
                                        5% more invested in                Investment in training is
                                           employee training                   associated with higher
                                                                               productivity
                                        2% more participated in a          Advertising is expected to
                                           domestic trade fair in the last     lead to increased sales
                                           3 years                          Advertising abroad could
                                        19% more participated in a            lead to greater exports
                                           trade fair abroad in the last 3
                                           years (%)
                                        19% less improved their            Improved standards of
                                           production technology in the        products increase their
                                           last 3 years                        competitiveness and potential
                                                                               to trade and export
                                        3% more contracted local           Investment in business skills
                                           consultancy services in the         is associated with higher
                                           last 3 years                        productivity

11.    Lastly, it is important to note that the matching grants component achieved these impacts
with good value for money, as is evident when comparing the management costs of the program
with similar programs in Argentina, Indonesia, Kenya and Mauritius. This program had the second
lowest operating costs as portion of matching grants funds, while the cost per business plan was
lower than the average among these programs (US$ 3,052 compared to US$3,157.) See Table 3.3
below.




49
     Calculated as a difference-in-difference effect, as presented above in Table 2.4

                                                            50
Table 3.3: Component 2 cost-effectiveness comparison
                             Argentina           Indonesia        Kenya               Mauritius           Cabo Verde

 Type of matching grant
 program                     Export              Export           Export                                  Competitiveness
                                                                                      Competitiveness
                             promotion           promotion        promotion                               (FCC)



 Operating Costs                           36                47                 57                 19.4                     29
 /Matching Grant (%)50


                                         6,047           3,518                1,326               1,842                 3,052
 Operating Costs/
 # plans US$51




50
     The operating costs are calculated as a proportion of the total grant monies from.
51
     The cost per plan includes only the 98 successful plans in Cabo Verde.

                                                                  51
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                         Responsibility/
               Names                                    Title              Unit
                                                                                           Specialty
Lending
                                    Lead Private Sector Development
Alvaro Gonzalez                                                          GTCDR First TTL
                                    Specialist
                                    Senior Private Sector Development
Kofi Boateng-Agyen                                                       GTCDR Second TTL
                                    Specialist
                                                                         (no longer
I. Chacon                                                                             Team member
                                                                           at WB)
                                                                         (no longer
Dorothy N. Judkins                  Program Assistant                                 Team member
                                                                           at WB)
Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez              Senior Program Assistant              GFMDR       Administrative
Jacqueline Beatriz Veloz Lockward   Program Assistant                     LEGLE       Team member
Rekha Reddy                         Senior Economist                      GFMDR       Team member
Herminia Martinez                   Consultant                            AFCF2       Team member
Sidy Diop                           Senior Procurement Specialist         GGODR       Procurement
                                                                         (no longer
Eric Jean Yoboue                                                                      Team member
                                                                           at WB)
Thomas Jeffrey Ramin                Senior Operations Officer             DFGPE       Team member
Ronnie Hammad                       Senior Operations Officer             GPSOS       Team member
                                                                         (no longer
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao           Financial Management Specialist                   Team member
                                                                           at WB)
Fily Sissoko                        Practice Manager                      GGODR       Procurement
Nathalie S. Munzberg                Senior Counsel                        LEGEN       Team member
                                                                         (no longer
D. Junqueria                                                                          Team member
                                                                           at WB)
                                                                         (no longer
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab                                                                 Team member
                                                                           at WB)
Supervision/ICR
                                  Lead Private Sector Development
Alvaro Gonzalez                                                          GTCDR First TTL
                                  Specialist
                                  Senior Private Sector Development
Kofi Boateng-Agyen                                                       GTCDR Second TTL
                                  Specialist
Africa Eshogba Olojoba            Lead Environmental Specialist          GENDR        Safeguards
Cheikh A. T. Sagna                Senior Social Development Specialist   GSURR        Safeguards
Sidy Diop                         Senior Procurement Specialist          GGODR        Procurement
Warren Waters                     Consultant                             GSURR        Safeguards
Jacqueline Beatriz Veloz Lockward Program Assistant                      LEGLE        Team member
Rekha Reddy                       Senior Economist                       GFMDR        Team member
Herminia Martinez                 Consultant                             AFCF2        Team member
Nathalie S. Munzberg              Senior Counsel                         LEGEN        Team member
                                  Senior Private Sector Development
Penelope Demetra Fidas                                                   GTCDR ICR author
                                  Specialist




                                                        52
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               US$ (including travel and
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
  FY10 – FY15                                                          US$ 691,812
                              Total:                                   US$ 691,812
Supervision/ICR                                                         US$ 20,000
                              Total:                                   US$ 711,812


Annex 5a. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Assessing the Design

PDO: Considering the macroeconomic and sector context, the past Government and Bank’s
collaborative efforts to develop the private sector as surveyed above and the policies reforms
outlined in the PRSP II of 2008-2011, the overall original PDO can be considered consistent with
the country necessity to improve the business climate environment and economic governance.

Project Components

The design of the components revealed appropriated, and subsequent changes motivated by the
Amendment to the Financing Agreement of June of 2012 and of May of 2014, did not altered the
design, despite changes in activities adopted. All the new activities were easily consistent with
original objectives and components stated in the PAD.
M&E

The original M&E framework and key project indicators are related to the PDO at the time of the
PAD. However it must be noted that:

(i)    The Herfindahal Index (HHI) proposed for result monitoring in PAD to measure the
       diversification index of FDI. This indicator was adopted in the Project Logic Framework
       in line with tourism regional planning activities planned but successively restructured and
       not completed. The rational was that, as the tourism is the most targeted sector for FDI, the
       regional planning would contribute to attract investments outside the main tourism
       destination of Sal and Boa Vista. This indicator was eliminated during the implementation
       and was not replaced.

(ii)   The baseline of 15 SMEs (Intermediate Outcome) competing for contracts through public
       procurement has no realistic basis, as demonstrated further ahead by the Outcome
       Assessment. In fact this number is vastly understated and no criterion was presented for its
       adoption.

The Procurement Website, through which data on SME’s competing for public procurement were
supposed to be collected, was not developed by the Government at the early stage of the Project

                                                53
implementation as was expected. The website was completed only by the end of the Project.
The PCU acted to remedy the situation hiring a consultant to manually collect, compile and
produce statistics on the SMEs competing for contracts. The data collected under this
procedure, which may not be as reliable as the ones that could be obtained through an
electronic system, are considered appropriate and adopted in the M&E to measure the
outcome.

(iii)   The indicator adopted to measure the outcome of the DGT activities, percent of
        regional tourism plans prepared, was adequate originally. But, the lack of
        definitively approved restructured activities for DGT interfered to impede a timely
        adoption of a consistent indicator.

(iv)    The critical activity to design the instrument to measure the outcomes of the MGF
        was not undertaken. The consultant, contracted by the Bank to do so, realized that
        the firm’s methodology was not adequate to Cape Verde and MGF circumstances,
        and therefore requested the termination of the contract. The difficulties arising from
        the procurement rules, heavily conditioning the contracting of a government entity
        to perform remunerated work for Bank funded projects, made it difficult to
        negotiate and finally to agree with the INE, the Government statistic agency, to
        make surveys that would provide data adequate to the measurement of indicators
        for MGF. The data collected compiled and analyzed in 2014, by INE contracted by
        the PCU, adjusted to all the intermediate outcome adopted and provided non
        designed indicators, such as innovations and products diversification that proved to
        be very adequate to support qualitative assessment of the MGF outcomes.

Changes during Implementation

Project Development Objectives: The PDO was not formally revised in the course of the
implementation. However, the introduction of a single activity after the MTR, the
“Evaluation of the SE’s Enapor and Cabnave, both entities targeted for privatization under
the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP) of 2003, which did
not happen, may suggest otherwise. In fact the introduction, which was made in view of a
new divesture program planned after the MTR and to be implemented in short term, may
suggest a revision of the PDO at first sight, since both SE’s are not SME’s, and divesture’s
activities were not foreseen in the Design, neither as activities to improve investment
climate or to support reforms in the economic governance.

The linkages with the core design and PDO of such introduction is not immediately
identifiable. However, a closer look clearly indicates that the new activity could and should
support both the investment climate and economic governance since the impact of the SE’s
money losing in the macroeconomic situation, through the worsening of fiscal conditions,
is highly counterproductive. The negative macroeconomic environment, which has been
deteriorating in the last five years, highly recommends the end of funneling public financial
resources to SE’s money losing.




                                             54
Additionally it is reasonable to expect that the privatization of ports and the shipyard,
bringing more efficiency and scale to the operations, will increase business opportunities
for SME’s, as suppliers of good and services to the two entities.

Moreover, as will be demonstrated in the chapter on the Assessments of Outcome and
Activities, , there were clear risks of unused financial resources by DGT and other
beneficiaries, that required prompt action to relocate money to other identified activities
relevant to PDO..

In conclusion, the activity did not infringe the PDO and Project Design, did not required
additional financial resources and, above all, has an important discernible linkage with the
PDO, in the context of prevailing macroeconomic conditions.

Changes in Activities and Beneficiaries: The project’s activities and beneficiaries were
restructured under two arrangements achieved in the course of implementation:
(a) The Amendment of the Financing Agreement reached between the Bank and the GOCV
in December of 2012, which incorporated the Project/UCRE Protocol an interim measure
agreed upon by the Bank;
(b) The Restructuring Letter of May 2014, which extended the end date to January.

The Protocol enabled certain new activities to be implemented in a timely fashion with the
understanding that it would be included in the Restructuring that was already being
negotiated and developed, which, in fact, occurred in December 2012 Restructuring.

Component I (A): Of particular importance, as other donor concurrent project that made
redundant most of project activities related to business registering and licensing foreseen
in the PAD, is the Improvement of Business Life-cycle Services (IBLCS) funded by the
Investment Climate Facility for Africa (ICF) in an amount of US 2.35 million. The IBLCS
funded and implemented all business licensing activities, but those under responsibility of
municipalities.

The referred UCRE Protocol adopted a package related to (i) Property Registry
Modernization, through the use of information technology systems and electronic systems
to register property; (ii) the business closing hardware support; (iii) business licensing
regime at municipal level. The Protocol suppressed the important activity included in the
PAD, the design, codification and adoption of bankruptcies procedures. The exclusion was
due to the fact that the Project available financial resource (USD 150.000) was considered
insufficient by the Government which took measures to identify and use alternative
resources outside the Project. The bankruptcy legal framework was only recently prepared
and is in process of being approved after four years and half of Project’s live.

This new UCRE package also created a strong synergy with Millennium Challenge
Account (MCA) project on Property Registration Modernization. This very positive
linkage is emphasized in the MTR:
“The UCRE’s package basically consists of the digitization and indexation of paper
archives in Praia and Sal, the two most demanded Registries, the design and development
                                            55
of a computer information technology system, the establishment of an electronic system of
registry and training of users in the two registries. The MCA will therefore benefit from
the software designed which will serve the remaining islands and will build upon the
capacity instituted in Praia and Sal to expand the digitalization and indexation of the books
and the electronic registration system to all remaining islands. Therefore the completion
of the Land Registry system, which obviously includes others undertakings by the MCA
project, will be smoother, easier and faster, considering the work developed under the
SME& EG Project”.

The Protocol gave sequence to the IBLCS project, completing it and closing the cycle of
improvement in business licensing. Additionally it permitted the funding by the Project of
hardware supports to complete the efficient implementation of the Decree Law 22/11 on
business closing, a necessary step for the preparation of the new bankruptcy legislation,
under the Ministry of Justice, funded by diverse source.

In addition to the above mentioned Protocol subsequently to the MTR, three other activities
were introduced under this Component:

   (1) ADEI, the GOCV’s agency in charge of SME development, was not included as
       beneficiary of the Project until the first Restructuring, despite the representation of
       the supervising ministry in the project preparation, as stated in the PAD. The
       Restructuring adopted new activities related to incubators development for business
       services provision to SME’s. The new activities complement both the Matching
       Grant Program and an African Development Bank (ADB) project conceived to
       finance the procurement of business services and under implementation at the
       Completion. Another important activity adopted under ADEI is the
       Entrepreneurship Study, using the Global Entrepreneurship Model (GEM).

   (2) The Project funded the development of a Mobile Platform – mKonekta - by NOSI
       under the request of UCRE and agreed upon by the Bank and the Government, to
       facilitate service access provided by public institutions and financial sector to
       individuals and business, through the use of mobile telephone.

   (3) The Project funded in collaboration with other international partners such as the
       ADB, the NEPAD and the WIPO, the Africa Innovation Summit held in Cape
       Verde, in February of 2014. The Summit agenda was to “build platforms to engage
       all key stakeholders in an ongoing dialogue in issues of promoting Innovation and
       making Innovation a crucial element of Africa Development Agenda”. The request
       for Project sponsoring was made by the Government and agreed upon by the Bank.

Component I (B): In addition to the MGF adopted in the PAD, there were three new
activities adopted, all consistent with PDO and MGF related.

   (i) The CC’S’s Certification Program is an autonomous CC’S initiative, neither
       actually designed by the project, nor entirely funded by it. This activity was adopted



                                             56
       and an agreement for cost sharing between the PCU and the CCISS, respectively
       56% and 44%, was achieved.

Unfortunately, as will be analyzed further ahead, this important activity in the context of
SME’s development was not implemented.

   (ii) The Management Support is conceived as a fund to support the CCS’s
        managements of the MGF, as happened in the previous MGF, under the precedent
        Growth and Competitiveness Financing Agreement.

   (iii)The MSE´s Support is directed solely to Micro Enterprises and is conceived to help
        them build capacity in financial management through training and coaching. The
        activity is conceived outside the MGF because several micro enterprises, in need
        of support to improve financial management, cannot be eligible for the MGF
        support, given their irregular position concerning tax and social security payments,
        which are eligibility requirements. The MSE´s Support was planned to start in 2013
        and to function throughout the project life.

Component II: All the activities planned in the PAD were restructured and four more were
added, after the MTR.

(i) The restructuring of the DGT activities: The issue deserves some elaboration, both in
    view of the significant importance of the tourism sector for the economy and as
    evidence of lack of coordination between the Government and the Bank in the related
    policy discussion.

At the PAD, the regional planning was assessed as a key policy objective and accordingly
regional planning activities were adopted. Afterwards, the DGT, whose supervising
ministry is mentioned in the PAD as taking part in the Preparation, objected to the activities
which subsequently were revised by the Restructuring of December 2012. The new
activities agreed were planned to give sequence to the activities started with Government
funding and regarding Tourism Attraction Inventory and Accessibility/Signaling/Tourism
Site. However, procurement issues related to the selected proposal exceeding available
financial resources did not allow for the completion of these activities. Subsequently, the
Project agreed to finance the preparation of a TOR proposing a program to integrate new
activities centered on regional planning, with focus in the Municipality of Tarrafal, Island
of Santiago. The TOR was submitted by mid-September to the DGT for acceptance and
until completion by January 31, 2015, no answer was given by DGT. The non-answer
resulted in impossibility to implement activities and the DGT ended up with no new
activities performed after the MTR.

The management of this process may suggest lack of articulation between the Government
and the Bank in the preparation, and more likely limited institutional capacity of DGT,
already identified in the PAD. According to the view of the Project Coordinator, which is
subscribed by this ICR, the under staffing of PCU, which did not have program officers
that could support beneficiaries in planning and designing activities, is not strange to what

                                             57
happened. Besides, and very importantly, it was clear that an understaffed and overloaded
DGT with line activities did not prioritize the activities of the Project, as the non-answer
to the TOR funded by PCU reveals. The relative limitation in capacity of DGT, despite the
improvements of three last years, has been documented by some key studies on tourism
sector in Cape Verde.

(ii) The restructuring of activities of Cape Verde Investment: Three new activities were
     added to benefit Cape Verde Investment, under the restructuring and MTR: (a) design
     of an One Stop Shop (OSS) and its supportive software to enhance the institution’s
     efficiency to provide services to investors, acting as the sole interlocutor in the
     investment evaluation, licensing and incentives negotiation and contracting; (b) New
     Website and On line marketing system; (c) export promotion targeting garment and
     shoes industry. The two first activities were conceived to strengthen the institutional
     development and sustainability improving its competencies, credibility and planning
     capacity to perform its institutional functions. The third one was conceived to support
     government marketing effort to attract labor intensive investments to S. Vicente Island,
     in order to alleviate the particularly high unemployment prevailing in the Island of S.
     Vicente and to contribute to SME’s development.

(iii)Restructured activities of ARAP: The restructured ARAP’s activities were referred to
     in the MTR. The OECD Compliance Assessment/TA was initially an ADB project and
     the Bank agreed to finance it but restructured under a new activity more in line with
     the quality enhancement for a new organization. Under the project, the planned activity
     is TA to implement quality management in order to achieve conformity with ISO 9001
     standard.

Another changed activity is the replacement of a Regional/International Specialist to
provide technical assistance in the setting up of the ARAP, whose recruitment process was
undermining the implementation, by a new activity, the Strategic and Operational Plan, a
key activity to support the institutional development of ARAP.

(iv) DNP: TA for preparation of GPRSD III: The Project funded a TA to support the
     Government in the preparation of GPRSD III. A preparation manual, an econometric
     model and a Logical Framework for evaluation monitoring were prepared not only for
     the MFP but also for the others implementing agencies and delivered.

DNP: Hiring of a Specialist: The Project funded the hiring of a Specialist to support the
Government to design and adopt legally a new National Planning System through a Base
Law on National Planning System. The adopted legislation captures into a national law
many instruments and processes typical of strategic planning already used in the planning
and budgeting exercises by the Government, but lacking proper legal framework.
(v) Development of information software: The Project funded the development by NOSI
    of information software designed to complete the digital system in use by the DGIC to
    monitor the import/export operations. The system which already monitored the
    customs and commercial operations was lacking the component to monitor the



                                             58
   exchange operation. The Bank funded precisely the exchange component to complete
   the monitoring activities of the DGIC, regarding international trade.

Assessing Changes during Implementation

The above described changes occurred during implementation, were opportune, adequate
and substantially linked to the PDO. In fact, they brought highly satisfactory impact on
investment climate and institutional development of concerned public sector agencies, but
tourism:

(i)     The new Mobile Platform is expected, similarly to what is happening in many
African countries, to greatly improve access to services particularly by MSE, through the
use of mobile. The MSE access to desktop computers is still relatively limited in Cape
Verde, while the penetration of mobile telephones is one of the highest in Africa (90.5% in
First Semester of 2013, according to ANAC, the Cape Verde Communications Regulator).
The Platform is designed to facilitate access to various services such as the municipal and
government licensing, customs, social security, land registry, investment information and
tracking through the OSS, taxes status and payment, banking services, among others. This
activity is clearly consistent with the PDO.

(ii)    The Study on Entrepreneurship, new ADEI’s activity funded by the Project, is well
in line with the design of the Component I and responds to perceived need to measure and
assess, with support of empirical data, the level of entrepreneurship in the country, as well
as to set guidelines for its development in Cape Verde. The Study provides the government
a strong data base to design policies towards SME, completing the annual statistics surveys
of INE, focusing more on enterprises rather than on entrepreneurship. This activity is
clearly consistent with the PDO.

(iii) The support by the Project to the development of incubators, to supplement the
BAD’s intervention, is another new activity under ADEI and funded by the Bank. The
Bank participated funding the remuneration of the National Incubator Network Project
Coordinator, the acquisition of equipment and hardware and the remodeling of new
facilities. This last activity was considered very risky in the MTR due to difficulties arising
from judicial process opposing the Government and a private entity regarding to the use of
the selected physical facility. Consequently the Bank suppressed the funding required for
the remodeling of the facility.

        The visible positive impact of the Bank´s intervention is revealed by the fact that,
after the hiring the Coordinator, the number of incubators increased from one to five with
a new one to complete six under progress. Among the new incubators, four are specialized
in Tourism (2) and Agribusiness (2), in line with government policy to increase the
participation of Cape Verdean producers and service providers in the value chain of the
tourism sector.

(iv)    The design and the implementation of One Stop Shop System for CI, grounded on
an IT platform and the related introduction of a new Website and On Line marketing, could

                                              59
represent deep change in the way of doing business in the institution, if adequately
implemented. CI was scored 15% in 2012 by Global Investment Promotion Benchmarking
(GIPB), a World Bank Benchmarking instrument for Investment Promotion Intermediaries
(IPI) compared to 25% average of Sub Saharan Africa and 89% of the ones best in the
world. The Project funding is contributing to improve the two main components of GIPB’s
scoring, the Website Design and the Investment Handling. The Investment Handling, under
the new OSS, is timed to last mandatory a 60 to 75 days, a vast improvement over the
previous delays that lasted 6 to 9 months, and more.

(v)     The new activity related to the Introduction of ISO 9001 standard in the
Procurement Regulatory System was conceived to enhance quality standard of the
regulation of public procurement, to enhance quality of management system and introduce
the practices of internal audits and other requirement to conform to ISO9001 norms. The
activity is in line with the objective of the Component to increase transparency and
efficiency in the system and the participation of the SME’s in the public procurement
processes.

The introduction of Strategic/Operational Plan as management tool of ARAP is aimed at
the enhancement of independence, transparency and market friendliness of the public
procurement regulator, namely through new organization design, the definition of
objectives in the management processes, the adoption of performance indicators and M&E
system, new technology architecture, among other features typical of a
Strategic/Operational Plan for a performing public procurement regulator.

Specifically, regarding the governing body DGPCP, there was in fact no change in the
activity, rather in the procurement method. The Website was developed and is functioning.
As the case of CI’s new IT system, if sustainability risks issues are well addressed and
cautioned, the new Website will prove to be a tremendous innovation of State Procurement
Management as will be described in the Chapter of assessment of Component’s activities.
All ARAP/DGPAP activities are clearly consistent with the PDO on Economic Governance.

(vi)   The activities introduced under the DNP are all of high relevance to Economic
Governance. The GPRSP is the basic planning document stating the government strategy
to reduce poverty and stimulate grow and the related economic and social policies to
achieve the objectives and targets adopted for the period of implementation.

8.     Assessing Outcomes and Activities Performance

8.1.   Project Outcomes

The first necessary observation, which will be discussed further in the report, in the chapter
assessing the Bank and Government performance, has to do with the adequacy of some
adopted indicators, particularly the intermediate ones, to measure the real impact of the
project. As mentioned in the MTR, some of the indicators are clearly inadequate, insofar
as the values reached have a marginal connection with the project’s development. This is
true, for example, of indirect beneficiaries of the project, which measures the total number

                                             60
of people employed in the country, which practically does not depend on the project, given
its very small size.

The universe of MSME in Cape Verde is 5.780 enterprises as per 2012. The MGF’s
beneficiaries are 136 enterprises. A more beneficiary focused indicators, such as innovation
and technology indicators for example, in which Cape Verde performs poorly in the Global
Competitiveness Report, would be more adequate. The National Statistics Institute (INE)
Study, contracted by the PCU to measure the MGF, focused on innovation and technology
performance of the beneficiaries, among other more enterprise focused indicators.

Also relevant for the purpose of project evaluation is the failure to construct and survey
from Project start up or at appraisal a "control group," which would permit the assessment
of the revenues growth of companies benefiting from the Matching Grant Fund against
similarly natured business. The referred statistical data obtained through the INE,
contracted by the PCU, are an alternative option to support the comparative measurement
of average yearly growth of non-beneficiary and beneficiary companies.

Finally, the baseline constructed to measure the number of SME’s with access to the public
procurement process, was vastly underestimated at the appraisal. Recent survey undertaken
by the PCU, whose results were adopted by this ICR, evidences this underestimation. An
analysis of the Table V above, bearing in mind the observations made, shows that the
project exceeded two of the Project Indicators and fell short of one, as shown below.

1st Indicator: "Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a business license from 24 to
7"
According to the DB 2015, the number of days it takes to obtain a license is 8, one more
day than the planned target, revealing a gap of about 14%. Despite this gap, it can be said
that the developments were very positive, since the required number of days decreased
67% compared to the baseline.

2nd Indicator: "Reduce the cost of registering property (as percent of property value) by
40 percent."

According to the same source, the current cost to register property corresponds to 3.7% of
the property value, exceeding the target set (4.6%) by about 20%. The figure reached
represents a 52% reduction in registration cost relative to the baseline.
3rd Indicator: "Increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts through the public
procurement process, from 15 (estimate) to 80, over the life of the project"

The figure for this 2014 indicator, 114 companies, of which 45 micro and small enterprises
and 69 medium-sized enterprises, far exceeds the stated objective for the same year (30
companies). The final figure for the indicator, that is the number of SMEs that compete for
contacts through the public procurement process over the life of the project, reached 444
companies.

Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                            61
“Indirect project beneficiaries”

As mentioned, this indicator does not measure the project’s impact in terms of jobs created.
In fact the used baseline refers to the total number of employment in the country, and
obviously the size of the project does not allow it to significantly influence the volume of
employment in the country. The latest data published by INE show a volume of
employment of 182.831 individuals, that is, 3% more than the baseline, but 7% less than
the planned by the Project for the same year.

Component 1: Enhancing SME business opportunities

Subcomponent A: Supporting SME investment climate reforms

“Facilitate business licensing”& “Reduce number of steps”

The project set the goal of reducing the number of steps involved in getting a business
license from 9 to 3. In reality, the indicator remained unchanged (at 8 steps) since the first
year of project implementation.

“Facilitate property registration”
1.      “Reduce number of steps by 50 percent”: The ultimate goal was to reduce the
number of steps required for registering a property from 6 to 3. In reality, there was no
change during project implementation. The goal seems somewhat unrealistic, as compared
to the number of steps in the OECD (4.7). In any case, the gap is 100%.
2.      “Reduce number of days to complete transaction by 90 percent”: Also in this case
the target, a reduction from 73 days to 7 days, seems somewhat excessive and was not
achieved since the indicator stood at 22 days; that is, a gap of 214%. This indicator is 24
days in the OECD, which is higher than the number of days reached in Cape Verde. In any
case relative to the baseline, there was a significant reduction (70%).

Subcomponent B: Improving SME access to services

“Higher average one year growth in sales revenue of Matching Grant beneficiaries against
control group”: This indicator can be assessed by the results of the referred INE Study.
These results reveal that the increase in sale revenues was very strong and far exceeded the
stated goal, as shown below.

From a sample of 432/437 SME, medium turnover for not beneficiaries firms increased by
29% in 2012 and decreased 25% in 2013, a global decrease of 4%. Beneficiary companies
have much stronger performance, 60% increase in 2012 and 18% in 2013, a global increase
of 88% from 2011 to 2013.

As for the indicator (table below), beneficiaries SME showed very strong performance
relative to non-beneficiaries companies. The outcome largely exceeds the final goal (7.5%).
It was not possible to collect and assess data for 2014, since the submission deadline for
                                             62
businesses Yearly Financial Statement is May 31 and, therefore, the information is yet not
available.

 “Number of beneficiaries of the Matching Grant Fund”: The number of beneficiary
companies (136) exceeds the target set by 36%. Note that there is no coincidence between
co-financed projects and the number of beneficiary companies, which is due to the
existence of business associations and a group of business with more than one company
that had the opportunity to access the fund.

“Direct project beneficiaries, number (of which female %) [Matching Grant Fund]”: The
number of women-owned businesses was 25, about 18% of total beneficiary companies.
From a different perspective, considering the funded projects that benefitted companies
managed or owned by women, the percentage rises to 26%, against 20% baseline,(6%)
more than the target (see Table VIII).

“Indirect project beneficiaries (number), of which female (% of labor force)”: This
indicator refers to the percentage of women in the domestic workforce and suffers from the
same irrelevance mentioned above with regard to the indirect beneficiaries of the project.
As stated before, some indicators are not up to the task, that is, there is no clear link between
the indicator and the project´s real impact.

The Chart I on next page compares the proportion of beneficiary and non-beneficiary SME
that brought new products to the market, financed staff training and improved production
technology.

8.2.    Assessing Outcomes

Component I (A): Supporting SME investment climate reforms: The PDO as stated in the
PAD and unchanged during the implementation is: Support policy and institutional reforms
that will improve the investment climate and provide increased access to services to SME’s.
The reforms are aimed at opening up opportunities for new SME’s to emerge and for the
existing SME’s to growth”.

Out of the three Project Indicators two are related to the Component I and one to
Component II: (a) Reduce the number of days it takes to receive a business license from
24 to 7. Component I; (b) Reduce the cost of registering property (as percent of property
value) by 40 percent. Component I; (c) Increase the number of SMEs that compete for
contracts through the public procurement process, from 15 (estimate) to 80, over the life of
the project. Component II.

Two of the indicators were achieved and surpassed: (b) and (c). The number of days that it
takes to receive a business license was targeted 7 from 27 in baseline. The achievement
was 8. The Project target of 7 was not achieved but the reduction was substantial around
63%, during the Project life.




                                               63
Component I (B): Improving SME access to services: This component relates to MGF, the
Project and beneficiaries SME’s shared funding of activities aimed at improving access to
business services by participating enterprises. The overall performance of the MGF was
highly satisfactory, since all indicators were achieved and all activities but one were also
achieved. The number of beneficiaries (136) exceeded in 36% the target 100. The
beneficiaries performed much better than their counterpart non-beneficiaries in average
annual growth of sales revenues (2012-2013), exceeding them in 43% and the target
increase of 7.5%. The female beneficiaries owning or managing business was 28% of the
total beneficiaries, exceeding in 8% the target 20%. The indirect project beneficiaries of
which female (% of labor force) were higher than the target (0.8%) According to the INE
survey: (i) 26% of beneficiaries were from outside main urban centers of Praia and
Mindelo; (ii) 56% of the inquired MSME did know about the Project; (iii) New products:
32% of beneficiaries launched new products against 13% non-beneficiaries; (iv)Training:
57% of beneficiaries undertaken training activities for employees against 26% non-
beneficiaries; (v) New technology: 68% of beneficiaries adopted new technology against
27% non-beneficiaries.

The Project contributed significantly to the capacity building of the CC’s, funding part of
the management cost of the MGF. The outreach achieved was very much due to the
management activities funded by the Project. The access to business services resulting from
the MFG were critical in supporting beneficiaries SME’s to thrive, in an overall negative
context, by adopting technological innovation, diversifying products, improving
management processes, preparing marketing and business plans, undertaking training of
employees and increasing sales significantly.




                                            64
Annex 5b: Borrower’s comments on the ICR

The following comments were submitted by Carla Cruz, Advisor to the Minister of
Finance, by email on July 27, 2015:

“In general terms the ICR correctly represents all aspects surrounding the Small and
Medium Enterprise Capacity Building and Economic Governance Project design,
implementation and relationships.

The report provides a mostly accurate description of its design, structure, achieved results,
strengths and weaknesses.

However, there are some information that, to our belief and understanding, do not reflect
the true nature of activities, factors affecting their nature and implementation.

One case in point are the following statements regarding the Matching Grant Fund (MGF):
“One possible reason for the low number of applications is that the eligibility criteria
effectively (though not explicitly) excluded many small firms that were not members of
the Chamber.”(p. 20) ; “Finally, the matching grants program was eventually found to
reach mostly members of the Chambers of Commerce of Sotavento and Barlavento, even
though in theory it should have reached all types of firms, even non-members”(p. 25). This
assertion is not supported by facts. The MGF was, throughout its lifespan, widely
publicized though TV and radio campaigns, meetings with prospective beneficiaries
promoted by the Chambers of Commerce and several other events that involved the
Chambers and the Government. The Chambers used the MGF as one of their most prized
programs, and used every opportunity to publicly herald and promote it to any audience at
hand. The fact that the MGF was open to all Capeverdian firms irrespective of their
affiliation to the Chambers of Commerce was prominently and explicitly shown on all
MGF governing documentation and promotional material. Information provided by the
Chambers of Commerce show that for the Sotavento Chamber (Praia) 85% of beneficiaries
were not affiliated, while 15% were members: for Barlavento Chamber (S. Vicente) 51.4%
were members while 48.5% were not. These numbers disproof any allegation that non-
members firms were discriminated against in any form, either explicit or implicitly.
Furthermore, the fact that the final number of beneficiaries, which was significantly higher
than the project target (136 against 100) clearly indicates that the selection criteria for
eligible firms and projects were adequate in view of the available resources and nature of
the MGF. It should be noted that the criteria were devised by the Chambers, the World
Bank and the Government. From the beginning it was consensual that the available
resources to the MGF made it imperative to restrict the type and size of businesses it could
cater to. The final results, as eloquently described in the ICR, prove the correctness of its
approach, target population and nature of eligible projects.

There are other small discrepancies and inaccuracies with the description of some activities
and factors affecting implementation. For example, the description regarding General
Directorate for Tourism (DGT) (p. 41) is not completely accurate. The Tourism sites
signaling study did not go ahead due to the fact that the selected firm financial proposal far

                                             65
surpassed the budgeted and available resources for the activity. The negotiation with the
firm failed to lower it to a level that could be supported by the Project. Additionally, and
because of the time left in Project implementation and the delays made it objectively
impossible to continue with the process. The lack of response and delayed response from
DGT had to do with other activities.

 In spite of the report’s explicit recognition and description of the results, in many instances
far surpassing the proposed targets, when assigning the ratings, the report seems to take a
very negative view and tend to over value the shortcomings at the expense of the positive
and desirable factors.

For example, when rating the achievement of the Project Development Objectives, the
Project is assigned a “Moderately Satisfactory” rating. This is hard to rationalize when the
Project achieved two of the three objectives. Furthermore, and when looked more closely
at the results, its remarked that the missed objective was by a margin of only 6% (reduce
the number of days to receive a business license from 24 to 7 (17 days)) (the attributable
reduction to the project is 18 days (from 24 to 8). On the other hand the margin by which
the project was able to surpass the other two objectives are, by comparison, extraordinarily
great. The objective to reduce de cost of registering property (as a % of property by 40%)
saw a reduction from 7.7% (baseline) to 3.4 % (the target was 4.6%), which represents a
gain of 29% over the proposed target. More striking is the objective that has to do with the
increase of SMEs participating in Public Procurement processes. The indicator proposed
an increase from 15 to 80 firms competing over the life of project. The established number
of SMEs actually competing was 444, more than 10 times the target. The ICR did an
exercise of deconstructing the PDO, and the results it shows on the tables on pages 45, 46
and 47 are overwhelmingly positive. The report states on page 26 “having complied with
the latter two out of these three measures, the project nearly met its objectives and is
therefore rated as moderately satisfactory”. This phrase seems to be in contradiction, firstly,
with itself, and secondly with the body of proof that the report itself portrays.

The same rating logic seems to prevail at assessing the other factors and the Project overall.

As we understand, the rating schedule used by the World Bank goes from “Highly
Satisfactory” to “Highly Unsatisfactory”, “Satisfactory” being the average, while
“Moderately Satisfactory” reflects a below par assessment.

The attributed ratings do not seem to reflect how the report describes the Project, its
achievements and synergies that it was able to generate and the impacts its activities have
on the Government of Cape Verde Development Programs, which, after all, are for the
most part described in the report itself.

The ICR prepared by the Government of Cape Verde (please find attached) has a much
more balanced and equitable rating of the various assessed components, in which the
matching between the narrative and the rating values better represent the project
achievements. We would like to request that the Project final evaluation and rating take in
duly consideration the findings and assessment it reports.”

                                              66
Annex 6: Report of the M&E Specialist engaged to review the M&E framework

“Review and Retrofitting of the SME&EG Results Framework (Revised Final)

   1. Introduction

The SME Capacity Building and Economic and Governance project (SME&EG) totaling
US4, 500.000 was approved in April 2010 but encountered some delays. It became
operational in June 2011 due to delays in recruiting the Project Coordinator. The project
was scheduled for closure on 31 July 2014. However, the completion date has been
extended to 31 January 2015 after a mid-term review and following request from the
Government of Cape Verde to extend the closing date. While there has been good progress
in the implementation of the interventions, current ISR PDO outcome rating is only
Moderately Satisfactory (MS). A review of the PDO level results indicators point to
challenges in measuring two of the four indicators. The two indicators are (a) “diversify
the points destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in Cape Verde,
as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindahl index (HHI) of concentration of FD”I;
and (b) “increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts through the public
procurement process, from 15 (estimate) to 80, over the life of the project”. Due to the
difficulty in measuring indicator “a”, namely the HHI, the Minister of Finance sought
approval from the World Bank in January to replace it, which was approved. A new
indicator, namely “creation of an electronic one stop shop for international investments”,
has now replaced the HHI. The new indicator is an output measure and, therefore, it is not
likely to change the PDO outcome rating in a substantive way. Indicator “b” is equally an
output measure with a highly optimistic target of reaching 80 SMEs that can access public
procurement at the end of the project. The difficulty in measuring this indicator has also
been compounded by the creation of a new electronic procurement system that is yet to
disaggregate companies that compete for bids by type.

The M&E review aimed at improving existing arrangements for tracking and reporting on
both the PDO and intermediate results indicators with the hope of moving the PDO
outcome rating from Moderately Satisfactory to Satisfactory.

   2. Project Design and Relevance of the Project Development Objective (PDO)

The PDO is “to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce the cost of doing business,
diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance opportunities for
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to access public procurement”. The PDO is not
overly ambitious. However, two of the four PDO level results indicators as mentioned
before are not fully aligned with the PDO statement. With the project closing at the end of
January 2015, the PDO indicators could be strengthened through additional data from a
beneficiary results assessment.




                                            67
   3. Program Theory of Change: Alignment of Activities, Outputs and Key
      Performance Indicators

Establishing causal linkages between project interventions and results enable proper
measurement of specific contributions the project has made to achieve the PDO level
outcomes and the intermediate outcomes. As part of the proposed beneficiary results
assessment, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) may seek support to prepare a detailed
project results chain-showing logical sequencing of interventions and results (showing
causality).

Recommendation:
Prepare a project results chain linking inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes prior to
initiating the beneficiary results assessment.

   4. Key Performance Indicators Baseline and Target Values

The targets for the first two PDO indicators have been achieved and even surpassed.
However, there are challenges with the remaining two of the PDO level indicators, namely
“diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in tourism and other sectors in
Cape Verde, as measured by a 5 percent decline in the Herfindah index (HHI) of
concentration of FDI” and “increase the number of SMEs that compete for contracts
through public procurement process, from 15 (estimate) to 80, over the life of the project.
It is not likely this target will be reached. Equally, targets for some of the intermediate
results indicators are not likely to be met. The annual planned targets have no bearing with
the previous year’s actual achievements. The targets should be cumulative and should be
calculated on the achievements of the previous year.

While the proposed beneficiary results assessment could help improve the data gap, efforts
should be made to prepare a self-assessment study that will provide a complete picture of
achievements by comparing the targets planned with the baseline values, and achievements
of the previous years.

Recommendation:
Prepare a self-assessment review of PDO level results outcomes and intermediate level
results outcomes showing achievements to date in relation to the baseline data and target
values prior to project closure on 31 January 2015.

   5. Project Implementation: Arrangements for Results Tracking and Reporting

The Project Coordinator doubles as the M&E Officer for the project. With multiple
responsibilities, this dual role has affected systematic data collection and reporting. The
project is closing by 31 January 2015, and yet there are significant gaps in tracking and
reporting on key KPIs. As a short-term measure, there may be need to recruit an M&E
consultant who will work along side with the Project Coordinator to prepare a



                                            68
comprehensive self-assessment report prior to initiating the beneficiary results assessment
of project interventions and outcomes.
Recommendations:
Recruit a short-term consultant to assist the Project Coordinator to prepare a self-
assessment report on key project interventions and outcomes, based on the indicators in
the results framework.

   6. Mid-Term Review and Project Restructuring

A mid-term evaluation was undertaken in the summer of 2013, more than two years after
the implementation of the project. Following the review, the Minister of Finance sought
and received approval to change the HHI indicator. But this change is not likely to have
any significant impact on influencing the PDO outcome rating due to the limited time frame
available to successfully implement interventions.

   7. Progress Towards the Achievement of the PDO

As the Table 1 below indicates, two of the PDO level results/outcomes have been achieved.
However to maintain and even surpassed the current MS PDO outcome rating, there may
need be collect more in-depth information on key project outcomes by carrying out the
proposed beneficiary results assessment.

Table 1: Progress Towards the Achievement of the PDO

 PDO           Results Baseline        End of Project    Actual Value Explanation
 Indicators            (2010)          Targets           Achieved     for Variance
                                       (31January        (November
                                       2015)             2014)
 Reduce the number of 24               7                 8            End of project
 days it takes to                                                     target of 7 days
 receive a business                                                   will be reached
 license from 24 to 7                                                 by the end of
 days                                                                 the project
 Reduce the cost of 7.7 %              5%                3.5 %        The target has
 registering property                                                 been surpassed
 (as a percent of
 property value by 40
 percent)
 Diversify the points
 of destination of
 foreign investments in
 tourism and other
 sectors    in    Cape
 Verde, as measured
 by a 5 percent decline
 in the Herfindahl

                                            69
 (HHI)                 of
 concentration of FDI
 Increase the number 15
 of SMEs that compete
 for contracts through
 public procurement
 process, from 15
 (estimate) to 80, over
 the life of the project

8.     Beneficiary Results Assessment of Project Interventions

8. 1. Introduction

As indicated above, only two PDO level outcomes would be fully achieved by the extended
date of project completion, scheduled for 31 January 2015. These are: reduction in the
number of days it takes to receive a business license from 24 to 7 and reduction in the cost
of registering property (as a % of property values by 40 %). As of December 2013, the
number of days it took to receive a business license had been reduced from 24 to 8. And
the reduction is likely to surpass the planned end of project target of 7 days. The cost of
registering a business had also been reduced from 7,7 % to 3.5 % as of December 2013.
 For the remaining two indicators, namely diversification of the destination of foreign
investments in tourism and other sectors and increase in the number of SMEs that bid in
public procurement process, as result of the adoption of new procurement policies, from
15 to 80, over the life of the project, the measure to assess its achievement is not robust
enough. The use of the Herfindah Index (HHI) did not fully capture the effects of the
diversification of foreign investments. It has been dropped. And to date, it has not been
possible to capture the data on the number of SMEs that participate in public procurement
processes because the procurement agency does not disaggregate data on SME
participation. Even if there is evidence of an increase in the number of SMEs in the
procurement process, it does not measure the real effects of the firms’ participation in terms
of growth, employment generation and profitability. At the intermediate level good
progress has been made. However there is a need to probe deeper beyond the monitoring
data to capture the effects resulting from the full completion of activities and related
outputs on key outcomes.

8.2    Purpose of the Beneficiary Results Assessment

The beneficiary assessment has two main objectives. First, it will probe beyond existing
PDO results and intermediate results monitoring data to show the real effects of the
SME&EG project interventions on key beneficiaries and other stakeholders in terms of real
economic benefits and improvement in business processes and practices. And second, it
seeks to provide additional information to strengthen the current PDO outcome rating from
Moderately Satisfactory (MS) to Satisfactory (S).

8. 3. Scope of the Assessment

                                             70
The specific objectives are as follows:
       Review project design and objective to ascertain its continuous relevance
       Review project M&E implementation to determine if the activities and related
        outputs were aligned with the PDO outcomes and the intermediate results
       Collect additional data to strengthen the preparation of the final Implementation
        Status Report and Results (ISRs) and the Implementation Completion Reports and
        Results (ICRs)
       To collect additional data to improve the final PDO outcome rating from MS to S.

8. 4.   Methodology

The consultants will provide a brief description of the methodology for the assessment.
The consultants will justify the choice of the methodology. The reviewers may also explore
the use of a mixed method that should lead to the collection of quantitative and qualitative
data. It is expected that the scope and limitations of the methods used will be discussed. It
may be useful to triangulate the information that is collected by crosschecking data from
different sources. The consultants may use the following steps for data collection and
reporting: questionnaire development; data collection, data management; data analysis;
data interpretation and reporting.

8. 5.   Issues

The assessment will focus on the following issues:

Relevance
The study will determine if the assumptions underlying the PDO are still valid in terms of
responding to the priorities of the beneficiaries and other stakeholders. Assess if the
assumptions adequately respond to the priorities of the beneficiaries and stakeholders.

Project Results Chain
The review should establish the causal links between project activities and outputs,
between outputs and outcomes, and between outcomes and the overall effects. The
assessment should also cover the assumptions and risks underpinning the interventions.
And assess the appropriateness of the results framework in terms of the measurability of
the PDO level results indicators and the intermediate results indicators.

Efficiency
Determine the extent to which the costs related to the interventions of the project are
justified in terms of the results achieved while taking into account other alternatives.

Effectiveness
 Assess the extent to which the interventions have resulted in the achievement of the PDO
level results and the intermediate level results.

                                             71
Case Study
Prepare a case study profiling firms that have succeeded as a result of benefiting from the
matching grant.

Impact
Document the effects of the interventions, positive or negative, intended or unintended. For
example, access to procurement by SMEs, effects of matching grants and tourism training,
etc.

Sustainability
Determine the continuation or otherwise of the achievements, from the interventions after
project closure on 31 January 2015.

General Questions
      Are the underlying assumptions of the project or its logic model still valid?
      How has the implementation of the interventions contributed to the achievement of
       the PDO outcomes?
      How has the intervention of the project benefited the targeted beneficiaries?
      How has the implementation of the interventions contributed to the achievement of
       the intermediate outcomes?
      To what extend are the key performance indicators fully aligned with the PDO
       results/outcomes and the intermediate outcomes?

Table 1: Beneficiary Results Assessment Questions for PDO Level Results Indicators
and Intermediate Level Results Indicators:

 Key           Performance     Beneficiary          Results Additional Comments
 Indicators                    Assessment           Issues/
 PDO       level     Results   Questions
 Indicators
 Reduce the number of days  Provide additional data on
 it takes to receive a      how a reduction in the
 business license from 24 tonumber of days it takes to
 7 days                     receive a business license
                            has resulted in increased
                            domestic     and    foreign
                            investment flows
 Reduce the cost of How has a reduction in the
 registering property (as a cost of registering a
 percent of property value property impacted on the
 by 40 percent)             housing/construction
                            sector?


                                             72
Diversify the points of         Show how reforms initiated      This indicator has been
destination of foreign          through              project    replaced by a measure on
investments in tourism and      interventions have led to       the creation of one stop
other sectors in Cape           improved diversification of     electronic shop for foreign
Verde, as measured by a 5       foreign investments in          investment. The World
percent decline in the          tourism and other sectors       Bank approved a request by
Herfindahl     (HHI)    of                                      the Minister of Finance in
concentration of FDI                                            May 2014 to replace the
                                                                original indicator. While it
                                                                may be too early to
                                                                document the impact of the
                                                                creation of the one stop
                                                                shop for investment, the
                                                                beneficiary       assessment
                                                                should explore potential
                                                                benefits of the creation of
                                                                the facility on investment
                                                                flows and other benefits
                                                                generally
Increase the number of          Document SMEs that have         Gaining access to public
SMEs that compete for           secured contracts through       procurement is an output.
contracts through public        public procurement process      What needs to be measured
procurement process, from       disaggregated by sector and     is how by gaining access to
15 (estimate) to 80, over the   effects their businesses have   public procurement; the
life of the project             had in terms of improved        SMEs are improving their
                                profitability and additional    profitability and adding
                                employment created              value to their services.
Intermediate       Results
Indicators
Reduce number of steps          Demonstrate         through
Reduce number of steps by       additional data how a
50 %                            reduction in steps has
Reduce number of days to        resulted    in    improved
complete transaction by 90      individual businesses
percent
Higher average one year         Document         additional     Note that a proposed
growth in sales revenue of      benefits accrued to firms       impact evaluation study
Matching Grant Fund             through the Matching Grant      using          randomized
                                funding                         controlled trails with a
                                                                treatment group and a
                                                                control group did not
                                                                materialize
Number of beneficiaries of Ditto
the Matching Grant Fund
Number of beneficiaries of
the Matching Fund

                                             73
 Direct project beneficiaries,   Document            specific
 (of which female %)-            examples     of     benefits
 Matching Grant Fund             through case studies
 Indirect             project
 beneficiaries      (number)
 of % of female
 Percent of regional tourism     Show          how        the
 regional     plans     being    implementation of regional
 implemented                     plans has resulted in
                                 improved tourist arrivals in
                                 targeted islands
 Improvement       of    the     Demonstrate            how
 efficiency of the country’s     efficiencies     in      the
 procurement system by           procurement system is
 reducing the average time       positively impacting on
 of procurement process          SMEs
 from 10 to 6 months


Time Frame
The assessment should be completed before 31 January 2015.

   9. Conclusion

Despite the delays in initiating and implementing project interventions, considerable
progress has been achieved in enhancing the business environment in Cape Verde that can
be attributed to specific project interventions. The proposed beneficiary assessment should
unearth additional information that could improve the overall PDO outcome rating at
project closure.”




                                             74
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ADEI. “Elaboração de um inquerito às pequenas e médias empresas relativo às atitudes sobre o
empreendedorismo.” [Entrepreneurship study final draft report, funded by the Project.] 2015.

Campos, Francisco; Coville, Aidan; Fernandes, Ana M.; Goldstein, Markus; McKenzie, David.
Learning from the Experiments that Never Happened: Lessons from Trying to Conduct
Randomized Evaluations of Matching Grant Programs in Africa © World Bank, published in the
Journal of the Japanese and International Economies (2014.)

Ellis, Amanda, with Claire Manuel, and C. Mark Blackden. Gender and Economic Growth in
Uganda: Unleashing the Power of Women. World Bank, Washington, DC. 2006.

Morisset, Jacques. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 2038. “Does a country need a
promotion agency to attract foreign direct investment? A small analytical model applied to 58
countries.” See:
http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDSContentServer/IW3P/IB/2003/05/23/000094946_03
051404103335/Rendered/PDF/multi0page.pdf

National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Annual Survey of Firms 2013.

National Institute of Statistics (INE.) Study n. º 2 on the Impact of the Fund for Growth and
Competitiveness (FCC.)

Nicola Dee, David Gill, Robert Lacher, Finbarr Livesey and Tim Minshall. “A review of research
on the role and effectiveness of business incubation for high-growth start-ups.” No: 2012/01,
January 2012. Institute for Manufacturing, University of Cambridge, UK. Found on:
http://www.ifm.eng.cam.ac.uk/uploads/Research/CTM/Resources/12_01_dee_minshall.pdf

Piza, Caio and Lauro Gonzalez, Linnet Taylor, Tulio Antonio Cravo, Samer Abdelnour, Isabel
Musse, Isabela Furtado, Ana Cristina Sierra. The Impact of Business Support Services for Small
and Medium Enterprises on Firm Performance in Low- and Middle-Income Countries: A
Systematic Review. Campbell Systematic Reviews 20xx:x. DOI: 10.4073/csr.200x.x. As of May
29, 2015, this paper is still in draft.

World Bank Group. Doing Business in 2015. October 2014.

World Bank Group. Implementation Status and Results reports, #1 – 9, P107456

World Bank Group. Project Appraisal Document, P107456

World Economic Forum. Gender Gap Index 2013. Country Profile Cabo Verde. 2013.




                                                75
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Millennium Challenge Account
Carlos Alberto R. Varela
Land Management for Investment Project, Director
Millennium Challenge Account - Cabo Verde II
Achada Santo António - Praia
Tel.: 262 14 25/ Fax. 262 14 47/IP.6314
Email: carlos.varela@mca.cv

The following comments were transmitted by Dr. Varela by email on May 6, 2015:

In fact the World Bank project, which consisted of the elimination of paper conservatory
of registration books of Praia and Sal, as well as the recuperation of and the recovery of
the indices, made extraordinary gains for the property registry system. It prompted the
MCA to use this principle to finance the same work in other registries around the country,
ensuring their integration and interconnection with the entire public registry system.

Of the various advances that this (World Bank) work made, I would like to highlight the
following:

a) Drastic decrease (from 30 days to 24 hours) time in the issuance of a land registration
certificate;

b) Ease of access to register property, which decreased the risk of having duplicate
registrations, thus ensuring greater transparency in the process and more legal certainty in
transactions and property registration;

c) Improvement of service to users, as well as increased satisfaction of the operators of
registries (assistants, administrative and conservative);

d) Improved notion of the number of records and monitoring of the acts associated with
the real estate transactions.




                                            76
MAP




      77
