      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020003


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P107456                                                 SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Cabo Verde                                              Trade & Competitiveness



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-47170                                              31-Jul-2014                                                                 4,500,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  29-Apr-2010                                            31-Jan-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                      Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                               4,500,000.00                                                             0.00

  Revised Commitment                                                4,438,354.90                                                             0.00

  Actual                                                            4,479,073.60                                                             0.00




 Sector(s)
 SME Finance(41%):Public administration- Financial Sector(32%):Central government administration(27%)

 Theme(s)
 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support(32%):Other Private Sector Development(22%):Public expenditure, financial management and
 procurement(21%):Other economic management(16%):Regulation and competition policy(9%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Chad Leechor                         Clay Wescott                        Christopher David Nelson             IEGFP (Unit 3)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    As stated in the project appraisal document (PAD), the development objective is: "to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce the cost of
    doing business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance opportunities of small and medium enterprises (SME)
    to access public procurement." In the Financing Agreement, the objective of the project is essentially the same: "to assist the Recipient in its
    efforts to reduce the cost of doing business, diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments and enhance opportunities for SMEs to
    access public procurement." This review relies on the objective as stated in the Financing Agreement.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



      For the purpose of assessing the extent to which the results were achieved, the objective is subdivided into the following:
      Sub-Objective 1: To reduce the cost of doing business;
      Sub-Objective 2: To diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments;
      Sub-Objective 3: To enhance opportunities of SMEs to access public procurement.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      The project consisted of three components:
      Component 1: Enhancing SME business opportunities (at approval US$ 1.85 million (hereafter simply $); Actual $ 1.865 million) to support
      investment climate reforms and help improve small and medium enterprise access to services. This component included a matching
      grants program which offered SMEs a rebate on the expenses paid for business development services.
      Component 2: Improving government capacity (at approval $ 2.15 million; actual $ 1.7 million) to support selected reforms and institutions
      which were critical to improving the transparency, efficiency and investment planning of the public sector.
      Component 3: Project implementation (at approval $ 0.5 million; actual $ 0.679) to finance consulting services as required for project
      monitoring and evaluation; project audits and assistance to implementing agencies on technical matters.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost was estimated at $5.35 million at appraisal, including the matching grants of $0.85 million under component 1; actual cost
      was $4.95 million (including the matching grants of $0.7 million funded by the government).
      Financing: The project was financed by an International Development Association credit of Special Drawing Rights (XDR) 3.00 million
      (about $4.5 million). Actual disbursement was XDR 2.96 million (about $4.25 million) or 99% of commitment.
      Borrower Contribution: was estimated at $0.85 million at appraisal. Actual contribution was $0.7 million.
      Dates: The project was approved on 04/29/2010; became effective on 11/30/2010; and closed on 01/31/2015 -- 6 months after the
      scheduled closing date. There were two restructurings: The first on 11/29/2012 to: (i) finance the cost of newly
      agreed investment climate reforms on property registry and bankruptcy; (ii) add support to a public agency- Business Development and
      Innovation Agency (Portuguese acronym, ADEI), to oversee further strengthening of SME access to incubation services; (iii) lower the
      end-of-project target value of one of the key performance indicators; and (iv) introduce small civil works; The second on 05/17/2014 to
      extend the closing date by six months to January 31, 2015 from July 31, 2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     The project objectives were well aligned with the priorities of the Government’s Third Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy which covered
     the period 2012 – 2016 and was current at the close of the project. The strategy set out an ambitious structural reform agenda to improve the
     efficiency of public sector investment and SOE service delivery, enhance the investment climate and foster private sector development.
     The objectives were also consistent with the current World Bank Group’s country partnership strategy (CPS) 2015-2017 which became
     effective as the project closed. The first objective of the project (reducing the cost of doing business) and the third (improving SMEs’ access to
     public procurement) were compatible with the second pillar of the CPS, which fostered competitiveness and private sector development
     through improved investment climate. The second objective of the project (diversifying foreign investment destinations) was aligned with the
     knowledge agenda of the CPS which was intended to help the country develop external financing tools.




     Rating
     High
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)




   b. Relevance of Design

       The objectives were clearly stated, but ambitious relative to the resources available to the project. The first objective (reducing the cost of doing
       business) was clearly difficult to achieve since the cost of doing business has so many diverse and complex elements, ranging from
       administrative procedures (which this project addressed to some extent) to taxation, access to credit, corporate governance, to availability and
       reliability of infrastructure. The limited resources of the project could not have been expected to make a measurable difference to the overall
       cost of doing business.
       The results framework left significant gaps in the causal chains. For the first objective (reducing the cost of doing business), the outcomes
       chosen to represent this objective (reduced time for getting a business license and reduced cost for registering a property) covered a narrow
       range of the overall cost of doing business. The activities supported by the project did not address most of the cost drivers faced by SMEs.
       Even if the intended outcomes were to be achieved, the objective would still be out of reach.
       The second objective (diversifying foreign investment destinations) was not directly supported by project activities. The ICR argues that the
       one-stop shop supported by the project could enhance the ability of firms to diversify investment destinations. This argument is not convincing,
       however, as the one-stop shop can only facilitate the completion of administrative procedures, but it cannot offset the cost differentials of being
       located a long way from markets or from the work force. Perhaps, tax incentives, land grants and improvements of infrastructure could help
       diversify foreign investment destinations. This project, however, did not attempt to support those measures. In addition, the ICR acknowledges
       that foreign investment is beyond the capacity of the project to influence.
       The third objective (improving SME access to public procurement) relied on the assumptions that the necessary business support services
       would be available, affordable (with the help of the matching grants) and effective. However, the needs of individual SMEs had not been
       defined and articulated. The assumptions could have turned out to be invalid. The results framework would have been more convincing if the
       underlying studies with respect to the needs of SMEs had been carried out before or during project preparation.
       External factors were considered to some extent in the assessment of risk. Capacity constraints and stakeholder support were deemed risk
       factors during project preparation and mitigation measures, including capacity building and stakeholder consultations, were undertaken.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Objective 1: To reduce the cost of doing business

    Rationale
    Overview
    The extent to which the objectives were achieved is assessed in this Section. The assessment is based on a comparison between the
    results achieved and the targets established. In this project, two outcome indicators and targets were informally revised:
    1. The indicator "Diversify the points of destination of foreign investment" was dropped in the last month of implementation (January 2015);
    2. The target for indicator "Number of small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) competing in public procurement" was revised
    downward in the restructuring of November, 2012, from 80 to 30.
    In principle, such changes call for a split evaluation in which the project outcome is assessed against both the original and the revised
    outcome targets. In this case, however, the split evaluation is unnecessary for the following reasons:
    1. The removal of one indicator in the last month of operation was immaterial, with little or no impact on the result.
    2. The downward revision of the other indicator was also immaterial, since the outcome was much better than both the original and the
    revised targets. (More than 400 SMEs competed in public procurement, exceeding both targets.)
    3. As it turned out, the baseline value for the second indicator was not reliable, according to the ICR, casting doubt on the validity of the
    results, with or without the change of outcome targets.
    Since it makes no difference whether to assess the outcome against the original or revised outcome targets, this assessment is made
    against the revised outcome targets.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



    Outputs:

        • Development of electronic platforms and process re-engineering to upgrade administrative procedures including business and
        property registration and licensing;
        • Development of a mobile phone platform (Mkonekta) for business-government interface;
        • Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for relevant agencies, including Agency for Entrepreneurial Development,
        Department of Public Heritage and Contracts, Cabo Verde Investment (Promotion), Department of Tourism;
        • Establishment of six units of National Incubator for tourism and agribusiness;


    Outcomes:
    • Reduction in the time to register transfers of properties from 73 days to 22 days. This was an intermediate outcome indicator that
    showed good progress but the target of 7 days was not met;
    • Reduction in the time to obtain a business license from 24 days to 8. This was a key outcome indicator with good progress
    made, although the target of 7 days was not quite met;
    • Reduction in the cost of registering properties from 7.7% of property value to 3.7%. This was also a key outcome indicator. The target
    (4.6%) was exceeded, but almost all of the cost reduction occurred just before the project became effective. This result can be partially
    attributed to the project, since achievement could have been influenced by policy discussions during appraisal, and it continued to be
    supported by the project (See ICR p. 17, para. 53).
    Considerable progress was made, and targets were met or nearly met.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Objective 2: To diversify the target regions receiving foreign investments;


    Rationale
    Outputs

        •   Creation of an electronic one-stop shop for international investment;
        •   Capacity building on investor handling for Cabo Verde Investment (CI);
        •   Acquisition of software, hardware, furniture and improved workspace for CI;
        •   Launch of a new website for investment marketing.


    Outcomes:
    No outcomes pertaining to the diversification of foreign investment destination were attributable to the project. The Government requested
    to have the key indicator – the Herfindahl Index – for this objective dropped after the project closed because it was deemed inapplicable to
    the project. However, initial steps have been taken, including the establishment of the one-stop shop and capacity enhancement activities.
    In addition, the task team informed IEG that new foreign direct investment is expected to take place in non-traditional destinations including
    Santiago and Maio Islands.


    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



Objective 3

Objective
 Objective 3: To enhance opportunities of SMEs to access public procurement

Rationale
Outputs:

   •   Provision of capacity building for the Regulatory Agency for Public Procurement (ARAP) and procurement units of various ministries;
   •   Updated procurement law and regulations;
   •   Technical assistance on the strategic and operational plan for ARAP;
   •   Introduction of ISO 9001 for the procurement system;
   •   A new online platform for tracking public procurement operated by the Procurement Directorate (DGPCP)
   •   Matching grants provided to 136 SMEs, including 26 led by women.


Outcomes:

   • Improvement in the volume of sales among SME beneficiaries of the project. However, data is available for less than one third of the
   participating SMEs. In a small matching grants program such as this, it is essential to collect information from every individual
   beneficiary.
   • Increase in the access of SMEs to public procurement. The key indicator was the number of SMEs competing in public procurement,
   which rose from 15 in 2010 to 444 in 2015, exceeding the target set for this indicator. However, there was considerable uncertainty and
   confusion about the data. Existing data was deemed unreliable by the project team and the target was informally revised downward
   from 80 to 30. The ICR considers the baseline value inaccurate, but does not provide a more reliable figure (ICR p. 14, para. 46).
   Without reliable baseline value, it is not possible to determine the progress made, if any.


Some progress was made towards this objective. But with incorrect baseline and unreliable data on the key indicator, the
achievement of this objective is rated Modest.

Summary Results for the Four Original Indicators from PAD:
 Indicator                 Baseline                                Original Target                   Actual Results
                           4/30/10                                 4/30/10                           1/31/15
 Indicator 1 :             Reduce the number of days to receive a business license from 24 to 7
                           24                                      7                                 8
 Indicator 2 :             Reduce the cost of registering property (as % of property value) by 40%
 Weak attribution          7.7%                                    4.6%                              3.7%
 Indicator 3 :             Increase the # of SMEs competing in public procurement
                           15                                      30 (revised target)               444
 Indicator 4:              Diversify the points of destination of foreign investments in Cape Verde, as measured by a 5% decline in
 Dropped in the last month the Herfindahl index (HHI) of concentration of foreign direct investment (FDI)
 of operation.
                           N/A                                     5% decline in HHI                 N/A

Rating
Modest



5. Efficiency

The PAD presented a cost-benefit analysis of the matching grants program of $ 1 million which represented 19% of total project cost. With
reasonable assumptions, the analysis was based on a benefit stream that resulted from increased sales among the SME benefiting from the
program and extra tax revenue accruing to the government over a horizon of 12 years. The rate of return was estimated at 43%, with a net
present value of $1.9 million.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



 The ICR does not present a ex-post cost-benefit analysis of the matching grants program. Instead, it argues that several positive effects have
 resulted from the project, including:
 1. Cost saving that accrues to new businesses due to improvements in business registration. The ICR, however, acknowledges that these
 benefits are not entirely attributable to the project (para 86, p. 27).
 2. Increased sales (turnover) of SMEs that received funding from the matching grants program. The ICR states that the sales growth of the
 beneficiaries was 60% for 2012 and 18% for 2013. Data, however, was available for 39 out of 136 beneficiaries or 29% of the population. It
 is not known if an average beneficiary has experienced an increase in sales. Even if it has, the increase may be due to broader economic
 factors. It is not possible to attribute the change to the matching grants program without a randomly chosen control group to serve as
 comparator. The ICR noted that such a control group was considered during appraisal but it was not actually established.
 Among the considerations that indicate the efficiency of the project are:

     1 Significant delays during the start-up period, including the staffing of the project coordinating unit and the agreement on the framework
     governing matching grants. The first disbursement was made 14 months after effectiveness. The delays resulted in a pattern of
     disbursement that is significantly back-loaded compared to projections.
     2 The closing date was extended by 7 months or 15% of estimated project life.
     3 The cost of project implementation exceeded the budget limit by 36%.
     4 The management cost of the matching grants program at 30% was very high by established benchmarks. Most programs aimed to
     achieve an administrative cost of 10% of the budget, with a 25% cost considered very high. See World Bank (2010), Designing and
     Implementing Agricultural Innovation Funds: Lessons from Competitive Research and Matching Grant Projects, Report No. 54857-GLB.


 Thus, available information suggests that efficiency is Modest.



Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             18.80
 Appraisal                                                                43.00
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The objectives are rated highly relevant, but the design, which is unlikely to lead to the results envisaged, is rated modestly relevant.
The achievement in reducing the cost of doing business was substantial; in diversifying foreign investment destinations was modest; and in
increasing SMEs access to public procurement was modest.
The efficiency of resource use is rated modest.
Overall, the outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Unsatisfactory
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Among the risks to the development outcomes are: a) policy reversals; and b) failure to keep up the newly acquired capacity and electronic
equipment. Both are considered modest. Reforms of the legal framework and business processes have enjoyed the support of the public and
the current administration. No opposition to the practices has been put forward. In addition the enhanced capacity and the acquired skills
among the participating agencies and private firms appear to be self sustaining. Public officials enjoy more career stability compared with other
countries in the Region and are more likely to make use of the new skills. Private firms that benefited from the business development services
are in a better position to raise funds and compete for more more businesses. With respect to the use and maintenance of electronic equipment,
the Government has created a national e-government service agency, the Operational Nucleus of the Information Society (Núcleo Operacional
da Sociedade de Informação), with adequate funding to provide the needed support across the board. The risk to development outcomes is
rated modest.




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     There are areas of strength, including the focus on relevant objectives and a participatory approach that involved consultations with
     development partners and especially key agencies of the Government. However, the design of the project was weak, especially the results
     framework and the M&E system as discussed in section 3 and section 10 of this review. In addition, the quality of entry was marred by
     inadequate preparation. The needs of SMEs had not been adequately examined and documented up front. As a result, considerable
     implementation delays were encountered.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The project team worked diligently in monitoring progress and providing implementation support on the first and third objectives. It was
     responsive to the concerns and needs of the project coordinating unit (PCU) and participating agencies.
     However, the focus on results could have been improved. Deficiencies in the key outcome indicators for two out of three objectives (as
     discussed in Section 3b above) should have been addressed much sooner. Nonetheless, the task team overcame many challenges, including
     election-year hiatus and change of personnel through restructurings (in 11/2012 and again 05/2014) and reallocations of resources.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     The Government (Ministry of Finance) showed strong ownership and commitment throughout. It worked closely with the project team in
     the design and provided enabling environment for implementation. It handled the safeguards and fiduciary requirements admirably.
     Stakeholders, including external development partners and the private sector, are engaged on a regular basis. The Government, however,
     could have expedited the progress towards results through timely appointment of staff at the project coordinating unit (PCU) and through
     efficient resolution of the memorandum of understanding with the private sector on the matching grants. It could also have provided more
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



   effective leadership through strict adherence to the scheduled meetings of the Project Steering Committee.




   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   Implementing Agency

   The PCU was competent and professional. The team performed its role with ownership and dedication. The project coordinator was not in
   place when the project became effective. The procurement specialist did not arrive until much later. The first disbursement did not take
   place until 14 months after effectiveness. Despite this late start, the PCU effectively facilitated the work of all the participating agencies and
   external partners, including the National Statistical Institute. Even though the design of the M&E system was weak, the PCU implemented
   what it could in a timely manner. It was unable, however, to collect adequate data on the sales of SME beneficiaries to determine if the
   matching grants program made a difference.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   While the objectives were clearly stated, the key target values selected did not fully reflect them, and there were issues in collecting the
   underlying data.
   For the objective of reducing the cost of business, the target value is the time it takes to get a license and the cost of registering properties.
    These indicators may capture some of the cost doing business, but not necessarily a major part. No indication is given in the ICR as to the
   contribution of these indicators to the overall cost of doing business. It is not possible to determine the extent to which the cost of doing
   business would be reduced when the targets are achieved.
   For the objective of enhancing SME's opportunities to compete in public procurement, no data was being collected until after the project closed.
   For the objective of reducing the geographical and sectoral concentration of FDI, the indicator chosen (the Herfindahl Index) did not have any
   discernible relationship to the activities supported by the project, as the ICR points out (p. 10, para 32).
   Furthermore, one of the intermediate outcome indicators for the matching grants program (sales growth above that of a control group) was not
   well-defined since no control group was established. However, the ICR relies on data from a group of non-beneficiary SMEs as a substitute for
   the control group.
   Similarly, some of the intermediate indicators had doubtful or tenuous linkages to the project, including for example:
   i) people gainfully employed;
   ii) % of women in the workforce.

   The M&E design did little to help inform the task team whether progress was being made or whether the project was making a difference.




b. M&E Implementation
   Despite the limitations of design, "the PCU and the project team collaborated closely to monitor the progress of activities", according to the
   ICR (p. 9, para 31). However, no serious efforts were made to remedy the design deficiencies. Even though there was no reliable baseline
   and no current data on the number of SME competing in public procurement, the indicator was not modified, dropped or replaced by a new
   indicator. Instead, the target was adjusted during a mid-term review in 2012. And despite the lack of any relationships to project activities, the
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



   Herfindahl Index, another key outcome indicator, was maintained until the project closed.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR reports that the PCU and project team regularly shared the data collected with the World Bank Group's internal and external
   stakeholders, including the Cabo Verde Budget Support Group and the Millenium Challenge Account.
   It is not clear from the ICR what data was being widely shared. However, the most essential information -- the data needed to measure the
   progress toward most of the objectives -- was not available and therefore could not have been shared.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   Safeguards: The project was rated Category C, according to the ICR, with no safeguards issues reported.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Fiduciary compliance: The ICR reports that, apart from minor procurement issues during implementation, fiduciary compliance was satisfactory.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                             Reason for
Ratings                                 ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                             Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                             Substantial relevance, modest
Outcome                                 Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Unsatisfactory          efficiency, and efficacy ranging
                                                                                                             from substantial to modest.
                                                                                                             Capacity limitations within the
Risk to Development Outcome             Negligible                        Modest
                                                                                                             Government are not negligible.
                                                                                                             Shortcomings in design, M&E and
Bank Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                             quality at entry.
                                                                                                             Government contributed in the
                                                                                                             delay of project implementation
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                             and the inability of the project unit
                                                                                                             to collect essential data.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



Quality of ICR                                                              Modest                             ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR offers three technical and one operational lesson. The lessons point, inter alia, to the need for ensuring the presence of a functioning
project management unit early on and for providing adequate technical assistance.
In addition to these, IEG offers the following lessons:
• Matching grants for SMEs represent a challenge that require special skills in planning and execution. This project encountered significant
capacity issues in operating the grants, providing the necessary services, controlling the risks of abuse and assessing the results.
• It is essential to invest the time and resources to design and develop an adequate monitoring and evaluation system early on. Among other
things, the M&E system can help determine the validity and feasibility of the results framework. This project did not develop or implement a
functioning M&E system. It did not address the issue of missing or unreliable data until much too late. It kept an outcome target that did not
have any linkages to project activities until the last year of operation.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR shows a wide range of strengths and weaknesses.
Strengths: The ICR is methodical in its assessment of the results achieved, presenting its findings in a clear and logical manner, offering
helpful background material including participating institutions. Particularly remarkable is its candor about the deficiencies encountered in the
design and implementation of the project, including the role of the project team's counterparts.
However, there are significant weaknesses:
* The ICR could have been more rigorous in its analysis. On the achievement of results, the ICR says: "The cost of doing business was
significantly decreased thanks to the project’s support." (p. 16, para. 62) In reality, however, the project dealt only with a narrow range of the
cost. It did nothing at all to deal with the issues of policy uncertainty, taxation, quality of infrastructure, corporate governance and access to
credit -- all of which represent the cost of doing business. Furthermore, no indications were provided to show how the cost of doing business
changed after the project. On the relevance of objective, it gives a "high" rating without referring to the current priorities of the government
(Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy III) at the time of closing.
* The ICR could have given more reliable data. For example, data on the number of SMEs participating in public procurement (a key outcome
indicator) is treacherous. There seem to be disagreements among participating agencies on the estimates. The target was revised by the
project team in the wrong direction. The Borrower has denounced the baseline value for the key indicator #3 of the PDOs (p. 53, bullet ii of the
ICR). The ICR also acknowledges that this baseline is not accurate (p. 14, para 46), but continues to use it in the assessment of outcomes.
* In a correspondence with IEG, the task team further acknowledges that there were errors including typos and confusion of USD and SDR in
the ICR estimates of the cost of project management (page 5, para 3 of management feedback dated June 11, 2016).
* Inaccurate and misleading statements should have been avoided. On page 4, para. 12, the ICR mentions that “in the last year of
implementation” a new indicator (creation of a one-stop shop) was added. But on page 10, para. 32, it says that the new indicator was added
in January 2015 -- the month that the project closed. The former creates the false impression that the change was substantive, when it was
not.
In addition, a variety of anomalies should have been corrected before its release:
1 Quite a few acronyms are left undefined and not included in the List of Abbreviations. Among them T&C p. 35 para 113, RP (p. 13, para. 42).
2 While the project appraisal document provided an ex-ante cost benefit analysis of the matching funds program, the ICR does not follow up
with an ex-post analysis.
3 The lessons should have been more rooted in the project. Validity should have been more critically assessed.
4 Page numbering is confusing. For example, after page 37 is page 27. Thus there are two sets of the eleven pages that are numbered
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SME Cap Bldg and Economic Governance (P107456)



between 27 to 37. Finding the relevant contents and cross-referencing is a challenge.
5 The total project cost (Annex 1) is incorrectly stated and differs from that given in the project appraisal document (Annex 5).
6. The main text of the ICR (36 pages) exceeds the recommended length (maximum 15 pages).
The weaknesses outweigh the strengths, as the analysis of the ICR is compromised by the questionable data and inadequate rigor.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Modest
