oFFICIAL                  q j 177-
.         a                                                 DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS
3A     U    MOtNDIALE
November 28, 2012
Her Excellency Cristina Duarte
Minister of Finance and Planning     ARRIVEE N.
Ministry of Finance and Planning                           ...."
Praia, Republic of Cape Verde
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE:
(Small and Medium Enterprise Capacity Building
and Economic Governance Project)
(Credit No. 4717 CV)
Amendment to the Financing Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") dated June 2, 2010, between the Republic of
Cape Verde ("Recipient") and the International Development Association ("Association") for the above
mentioned Project. We also refer to your letter, dated June 4, 2012, requesting the Association to: (a) add
"Works" as an additional disbursement category in Schedule 2 of the Agreement; (b) revise selected
parts and include new activities under Parts A and B of the Project; and (c) add a new implementing
agency for the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association has agreed to your request and propose to
amend the Agreement as follows:
(a)   Part A in Schedule 1 (Description of Project) is amended to read as follows:
Part A:      Enhancing SME Business Opportunities
1.    (i) Scanning, indexing and digitizing of paper-based archives of property registries;
(ii) development of information technology system; and (iii) procedures; carrying out of training
of staff responsible for the implementation of such reforms and of members of the judiciary; and
the establishment of an electronic system to register property.
2.    Provision of: (i) Matching Grants to Beneficiaries to improve SME access to business
training and business services, including bookkeeping, business planning and management
services; (ii) support to the Chambers of Commerce for the management of the Matching Grants
program, including Training, Operating Costs, and services for the implementation of an
outreach campaign and monitoring and evaluation activities; and (iii) incremental support to the
Chambers of Commerce to coordinate assistance to SMEs needing certification services.
3.    Provision of services to Beneficiaries to improve SME access to business development
services and deepen incubation under the National Incubation Network ("National Incubation
Network") and support to ADEI for the management of the national incubation program.


﻿(b)   Part B.1 in Schedule 1 (Description of Project) is amended to read as follows:
1.     Development and implementation of a program of actions aimed at strengthening
the ability of: (a) the Agncia Caboverdiana de Promoqao de Investimentos; (b) the
Directorate of Tourism in the Recipient's Ministry of Economy, Growth and
Competitiveness; and (c) the Ministry of Finance, in each case to formulate policies and
to implement long-term planning of private sector investments, including establishment
of a functional one-stop-shop for and capacity building for staff of the General Tourism
Office, municipal governments, Chambers of Commerce and other entities linked to
tourism promotion.
(c)   Part C.1 in Schedule 1 (Description of the Project) is amended to read as follows:
1.     Strengthening of the Project implementation capabilities of the PU for the
carrying out of procurement and financial management, including carrying out small
renovation of the PU office, as well as for the monitoring and evaluation of the Matching
Grants."
(d)   Part A. 1 in Section I of Schedule 2 (Implementation Arrangements) is revised to read as
follows:
"1. MOF shall have responsibility for the overall implementation of the Project. The
Recipient shall at all times, during implementation of the Project, ensure that the
Business Development and Innovation Agency ("ADEI") has the responsibility to carry
out Part A (3) of the Project."
(e)   Section III A (Procurement) is amended to read as follows:
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.     Goods. All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of
this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines,
and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.


﻿2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding,
which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods 'may be used:
Procurement Method
(a)    National Competitive Bidding
(b)    Shopping
(c)    Limited International Bidding
(d)    Direct Contracting
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, which
may be used for consultants' services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the
circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a)    Quality Based Selection
(b)    Least Cost Selection
(c)    Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(d)    Single Source Selection
(e)    Selection of Individual Consultants
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
Association"
(f)   The table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing)
is deleted in its entirety and is replaced with the Annex to this amendment letter.


﻿(g)   In Section I of the Appendix to the Agreement, a new paragraph 3 is added to read as
follows; and the remaining paragraphs in said Section are renumbered accordingly:
"3.       "ADEI" means the Recipient's Business Development and Innovation Agency
located at the Recipient's Ministry of Finance.
All other provisions of the Agreement, except amended herein, shall remain in full force and
effect.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendments to the Agreement on behalf of the
Recipient by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this letter and returning one
countersigned original to us. Upon receipt by the Association of this countersigned copy, this amendment
shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Vera ongwe                           '       m
Country Directo for Cape Verde                      - SE
Africa egion
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
Se Represe
Name                   1)11/}3  (1  do  4
it de Cab0
Title I     LA /V(I fW
Date:     .L


﻿Annex
"2.    The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of
the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the amounts of the Financing to
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in
each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit    Expenditures to be
Allocated (expressed in      Financed
Category                           SDR)             (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultants' services (including         2,350,000             100%
audits), Operating Costs, Civil Works, and
Training for the Project (other than under
Part A.2(i) of the Project)
(2) Goods, consultants' services and Training         550,000
under Part A.2 (i) of the Project                              100% of amounts
disbursed through
Matching Grants
(3) Unallocated                                       100,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                        3,000,000


