Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22468
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34770; SCL-3477A; SCPD-3477S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.20 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
TA FOR TREASURY DATA
06/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 23, 2001)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL 1 = US$ 0.000001
US$ 1 = 960.189
GOVERNMENT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CFA              Certified Financial Accountant
CPA              Certified Public Accountant
DMS              Data Management System
DPC              Data Processing Center
EIC              Economic Information Center
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GOT              Government of Turkey
GTZ              Govenunent of Gernany
IFO              German Research Institute
IT               Information Technology
LAN              Local Area Network
N/A              Not Applicable
OEF              Oxford Economic Forecasting
PC               Personal Computer
PFMP             Public Financial Management Project
PSBR             Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
SOE              State-Owned Enterprises
TOR              Terms of Reference
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Sector Manager:   Samuel Otoo
Task Team Leader   Ismail Arslan



TURKEY
TA FOR TREASURY DATA
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                  11
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28






Project ID: P009097                                       Project Name: TA FOR TREASURY DATA
Team Leader: Ismail Arslan                                TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TA FOR TREASURY DATA                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-34770;
SCL-3477A;
SCPD-3477S
Country/Department: TURKEY                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/08/91                                Effective:
Appraisal:  06/10/92                                  MTR:
Approv'al:  05/28/92                               Closing:
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOT/TREASURY
Other Partners: GTZ
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice Presidenit:     Johannes Linn                             Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:      Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:   Ismail Arslan                            Barbara Lewis
ICR Primary Auithor:   Elliott Hurwitz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrowt-er Performiance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Introduction
The Treasury in Turkey is one of the key agencies charged with formulation of macroeconomic policy.
(Others are the Ministry of Finance, State Planning Organization, and the Central Bank) In addition to
responsibility for supporting broad macroeconomic policy, Treasury (at project inception) was responsible
for foreign economic relations and trade, public sector borrowing, financial sector regulation and
supervision, international capital flows, management of the portfolio of state economic enterprises, and
supervision of the insurance sector. (In 1995 foreign trade became the responsibility of the



Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, which was split off from Treasury. Financial sector regulation and
supervision units transferred to the newly established Bank Regulation and Supervisory Agency in 2000).
At the start of the 1990s, Treasury's information systems and data management capabilities were obsolete
and inadequate to support its responsibilities. Numbers reported by different departments were inconsistent.
Many data series were marked by late reporting, inconsistent definitions, and other problems. Most staff
did not have computers, and there was no infrastructure for sharing data. In addition, there was a need to
bolster the agency's capabilities in database design, systems management, and analytic and modeling
techniques.
This project was prepared with the request of the Turkish Government. Total project cost was US$30.05
million, with US$9.20 million contributed by the Bank, US$1.95 by the Government of Germany (GTZ),
and US$18.90 by the government.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Treasury Data Systems Project (TDSP) objectives were to upgrade the technology, information, and
analytic resources essential to Treasury's role in macroeconomic management. Specifically, the project
aimed to (a) improve the agency's monitoring and policy design functions; (b) provide timely and efficient
access for Treasury staff to a consistent, centralized data source; (c) enable Treasury to draw upon and
contribute to databases of multilateral institutions and other agencies; (d) ensure that organizational
procedures support efficient data processing and analysis; and (e) support investment in human capital.
Evaluation of Objectives
The objectives were clear and realistic, consistent with the Bank's goals as stated in the CAS, and
consistent with the country's goals. They were highly relevant to Treasury's mission and important for
economic development. Underlying the objectives was the assumption that better economic data would
facilitate government efforts to improve macroeconomic policy setting and, implicitly, macroeconomic
performance by reducing the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR), improving the performance of
SOEs, etc. Given the weaknesses in economic data and lack of analytical capability, it was realistic to
assume that better data would assist in formulating a more balanced policy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The original components were:
1. Develop a Data Management System (DMS) that (a) provides an appropriate technology
environment for macroeconomic data analysis; (b) contains centralized databases to support this
work.
2. Undertake institution-building initiatives that include (a) training in selected economic, financial,
and technical subjects; (b) consultant assistance for special studies and economic model-building; (c)
management and training consultancy support; and (d) establishment of a Treasury library and
Economic Information Center open to the public.
The DMS was originally intended to be built on the existing mainframe computer and included design and
development of economic databases, personal workstations, LAN and communications systems, and
-2 -



technical training for Data Processing Center (DPC) staff. The institutional development component was
intended to introduce modeling tools and undertake analytic studies to enhance staff capabilities in relevant
areas. It was anticipated that organizational processes would be introduced to facilitate efficient
data-sharing and management. A professional training program would also be undertaken to upgrade the
skills of Treasury staff.
Component 1: DMS development was intended to be achieved via the following tasks: (1) Update
mainframe and install LAN services; (2) Convert existing data; (3) Design new databases by means of
intensive end-user consultation; (4) Create new databases; (5) Train Treasury staff in use of new system.
Component 2, institutional development, consisted of (1) Provision of short-term training and preparation
of plans for long-term training; (2) Implementation of analytic studies and tools to permit advanced
macroeconomic and foreign trade analyses, as well as specialized studies; (3) Accomplishment of
organizational changes needed to take advantage of the new system.
While the original objectives and components were not revised, two substantive changes were made after
project initiation. First the Bank proposed and the government agreed that, because of the shift in the
prevailing IT paradigm, the TDSP would shift to a client-server architecture instead of using the existing
mainframe. Second, it was later decided that instead of establishing a physical Economic Information
Center, dissemination of Treasury economic information over the Internet would instead serve the same
purpose more efficiently.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The design was straightforward, aimed squarely at the objectives as
stated. The project approach fit the prevailing computing paradigm, and the institutional development
components effectively complemented development of the DMS. The assumption that better data would
facilitate better macroeconomic policy formulation was reasonable, and the project had the strong backing
and enthusiastic participation of the government.
Assessment of Design
As noted, the project design was simple, and in accordance with the prevailing computing paradigm. This
design was not risky. The first component was well within the implementation capabilities of the Treasury
Data Processing Center (DPC) supplemented by relatively modest consultant support. The second
component fit well within the capabilities of the General Directorate of Research (which was responsible
for project implementation), augmented by other Treasury components as required.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome overall was satisfactory, with highly-leveraged results from a relatively small Bank investment.
Interviews with a range of Treasury officials and those of other economic agencies as well as private
economists indicate that the quality and timeliness of Treasury economic data improved considerably over
the period of the TDSP. And there is ample evidence that TDSP has made Treasury operations more
efficient.
The project fully succeeded in an ambitious improvement of Treasury's automation infrastructure,
comprising servers, personal computers, LAN, database system, e-mail, and installed software. Use of
computers by technical staff has become routine, and the ratio of computers to staff is nearly 1 to 1
- 3 -



(compared with a project goal of 1 to 2). The Treasury web site is now widely used for data dissemination.
Economic studies and attendant staff development was successful. Extensive model development and
training was successfully achieved in macroeconomics; leading economic indicators; and sources and uses
of funds, with somewhat less progress in the two remaining areas. Short-term training of Treasury staff in
utilization of the new systems was successful, with training provided to 12 departments of the
Undersecretariats of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Short-term training was also provided in accounting,
statistics, international trade, and other relevant subjects. For long-term training, a plan has been developed
to integrate and carry out this training as part of regular Treasury activities.
However, the effort to introduce organizational processes that would facilitate efficient data sharing and
management has had mixed success. Many departments, such as Domestic and External Debt, make full
use of systems and in some cases have gone beyond the initial design capability. In order to provide
reliability and accuracy of data, some general directorates have responsibility to enter data, which are the
reference information of the main data, into the data bases. Therefore, the installation of the DMS has
produced one more step forward in Treasury data processing and analytic capabilities. However, because
of the complexity of some data bases, new requirements are not implemented easily in the system, so, in
some instances the DMS is not sufficiently flexible to meet user needs efficiently (details are provided
below).
4.2 Outpuits by components:
Component 1-DMS Development: As noted earlier, development and implementation of the DMS was
satisfactory, with substantial achievements considerably outweighing shortcomings. The installed
infrastructure is well documented and performs very well. The network utilizes ATM switches, a
highly-modem technology. Six modern servers support about 875 PCs; the system has the capacity to
support around 1500 PCs, providing growth potential. Security systems and firewalls are installed to
ensure data confidentiality. It should also be noted that the changeover from the mainframe-based
architecture to a client-server architecture was accomplished without the need for additional funding.
Principal Achievements: User needs were determined by an extensive consultant study, which established in
detail the system requirements of each general directorate. Based on recommendations from consultants,
the DMS acquired and installed an Oracle Relational Database Management System, which has been
extremely successful. DMS also uses Graphical Query Language and Power Builder software to create
departmental forms and reports. An e-mail system was installed that introduced additional efficiencies into
Treasury operations. TDSP use of off-the-shelf software has been very cost-effective, as the potentially
higher costs and delays of custom-developed software were avoided.
As envisioned, Treasury DPC staff supplemented by consultants converted existing data, created the new
databases within the DMS, and trained Treasury staff in use of the new system. As noted above, eleven
projects were undertaken under TDSP, in most cases corresponding to a unique database and supporting
application software:
1.    Domestic Debt
2.     External Finance
3.    Asset and Debt Management
4.     State Owned Enterprises
5.     Banking
6.     Sworn Bank Auditors
7.    Insurance
-4 -



8.    Foreign Trade
9.     Macroeconomic Indicators
10.   Financial Institutions
11.   Automated Document Archival Systems
In eight of these eleven instances, Treasury directorates are making effective use of the DMS. For
example, the General Directorate for Foreign Economic Relations uses the DMS to perform analyses in
support of negotiations for new loans from multilateral institutions. And the General Directorate for Public
Finance uses the DMS to manage external debt and monitor actual payments against what had been
projected. When DMS was first installed, Public Finance issued quarterly reports on indebtedness, but in
April, 2000, the directorate began monthly reporting. Data from the Bank's databases were transferred
into the External Finance database in a protracted process that involved travel of Treasury staff to
Washington. Bank staff report that Treasury debt reporting is among the best from member nations, and
they attribute this quality to TDSP.
The project introduced formal data-sharing arrangements between government agencies. Protocols between
Treasury and other agencies using or generating economic data were concluded, and in general data
exchange is routine and efficient. Such agreements are in effect with the Central Bank, the State Institute
of Statistics, Istanbul Stock Exchange, and the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade.
Other economic agencies and private users also utilize data generated by the DMS. The Central Bank uses
Treasury data on extemal debt in assessing the balance of payments, and its banking and foreign reserves
departments are also heavy users of DMS data. And academic researchers make significant use of data
from the Treasury website (www.treasury.gov.tr). In general, academic specialists and other economic
agencies stated that the quality of Treasury economic statistics has improved significantly over the period
of the TDSP.
Shortcomings: As noted, in two instances Treasury Directorates are not making full use of the DMS. The
SOE and Insurance General Directorates made little or no use of the DMS, continued the use of their own
systems, and participated little in training programs. This was due to a mixture of a general resistance to
change, reluctance to depart from existing systems that were known to be reliable, uneven support by
directorate management, some perceived deficiencies in the DMS, and a heavy workload of routine
reporting. Part of the resistance also appeared to be due to internal institutional resistance, as the Treasury
DPC and Treasury management made a number of efforts to induce cooperation and meet the directorates'
stated data processing requirements. In the insurance area, however, despite repeated efforts on the part of
DPC, the TDSP-prepared module was not sufficiently responsive to the Directorate's requirements.
The eleventh project, the automated archival system, has been deferred and is expected to be- accomplished
in the future. Treasury DPC and management are continuing to work with the directorates noted to improve
the capabilities and user-friendliness of the DMS, and it is expected that further system development will
enhance system utilization by these directorates.
With regard to SOEs, it should be noted that even though the SOE General Directorate makes little use of
the DMS, individual enterprises have made considerable use of this data, and in many cases have been able
to better analyze and improve their operations as a result. While the TDSP staff has recommended that it
would be safer and more efficient to utilize the DMS, the SOE General Directorate believes that the
continued use of their existing Excel system is adequate.
As mentioned earlier, there are some issues in the manner in which Treasury utilizes the DMS which will
-5-



have to be resolved through a collaborative process among the Treasury Departments. The functional
duties of debt management officers within Treasury has led to different approaches in data storage and data
processing of DMS. For example, the General Directorate for Public Finance is responsible to follow the
actual transactions (drawings and payments) of extemal debt operations and to announce this information
to the public. Therefore, in order to produce accurate and reliable extemal debt data, the responsibility for
maintenance of reference tables in the DMS (for instance the information of foreign lenders, borrower,
project name etc.) is given to one staff in the General Directorate of Public Finance. Other users can
process the reference information on a "read only " basis. While entering, a new loan agreement into the
system, the certain reference information should be provided by the staff from the General Directorate of
Public Finance. This sometimes causes delays in entering the data into the system. As another example, the
system is not able to accommodate multi-tranche loans, thus requiring staff to develop a "workaround"
solution that requires entering a separate loan number for each tranche. However, modifications to the
system are planned to be made before end-2001 to accommodate multi-tranche loans. Overall, these
shortcomings are relatively minor when compared to the benefits derived from the implementation of DMS.
Component 2-Institutional Development: Achievement was satisfactory overall:
Short -Term Training: As noted earlier, short-term training needs were identified through a consultant
study, which was revised with the Bank's help after the split-off of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and
Foreign Trade. The purpose of the short-term training was to provide the initial capacity for Treasury staff
to utilize the DMS.
The recommended training was delivered to around 300 staff from 12 departments of Treasury and the
Foreign Trade Undersecretariat. The success of this effort was demonstrated by the fact that staff have
been productively using the system for the past several years as additional databases and analytic
capabilities have been brought on line. Refresher training was provided throughout the duration of the
project.
It should be noted that due to resource constraints some general directorates have not been provided with
the amount or frequency of training they believe necessary. Also due to resource constraints, some
specialized software identified during project implementation (e.g., for portfolio risk management analysis)
has not yet been acquired.
Long-Term Training: The purpose of this sub-component was to institutionalize on-going training, so that
(1) new Treasury staff would have the requisite skills to utilize the DMS; (2) new applications and
knowledge could be introduced. A consultant report in this area was prepared, which provided the basis for
Treasury to establish in-house programs. A Steering Committee for training, with the participation of each
department, was also established to follow up long-term needs. This committee has met periodically and
developed recommendations for Treasury management. In addition, a survey was performed (which is
planned to be repeated annually) to identify these needs, and an action plan prepared. Thus the goal of
institutionalizing on-going training has been achieved.
Controller Training Proeram: With the goal of improving the audit of Bank projects, TDSP envisaged a
two year CPA/CFA training program for four Treasury Auditors, Halfway through project implementation,
Treasury requested a change to in-country shorter-term training which would benefit a larger number of
auditors. The Bank agreed with this request, but for a number of reasons it was delayed, requiring the
project to be extended. Eventually, a revised program for 20 auditors was deferred to the Public Finance
Management Project, under which it is currently scheduled to be completed by December 31, 2001. Thus
- 6 -



controller training intended for the TDSP was not completed by the close of that project.
Studies: As noted earlier, studies were undertaken in several areas with the goal of building up Treasury's
analytic capabilities. While there were some shortfalls, the main goals were achieved, with the greatest
progress in the areas of macroeconomics; leading economic indicators; and sources and uses of funds. In
these studies, the consultants worked very closely with Treasury staff, with the goal of transferring
knowledge by "learning by doing." When the studies were completed, Treasury staff took over operation
and further development of the models and other analytic tools that had been developed. A sophisticated
study in the area of foreign trade was completed, but was accompanied by less transfer of skills to Treasury
staff than had been envisioned. And in the area of consolidation of fiscal accounts, although several
analytical tools were installed and papers written, the anticipated work was not completed.
In the area of Financial Early Warning Indicators, for instance, threshold values for certain variables that
are believed to be reliable indicators of a prospective financial crisis are monitored. Similarly, a "Market
Pressure Index" is calculated monthly that estimates the probability of a financial crisis within the next 12
months. These capabilities, as well as those described earlier, were enabled by the TDSP. Treasury also
utilized its macroeconomic model to estimate the economic effects of the recent earthquakes, thereby
permitting the government to modify the assumptions it was using to set spending and revenue targets.
As discussed in greater detail below, in the performance of the studies Treasury made a strong effort to
select consultants who were pre-eminent in their fields. However, this often did not result in the selection of
individuals who were effective-or sufficiently available-to transfer knowledge to Treasury staff.
As noted earlier, a physical Economic Information Center was not established, but Treasury economic
infornation has been disseminated over the Internet, thereby accomplishing the same goal more efficiently.
The library, training center, conference facility, and publication center were all developed as envisioned,
and are currently used for in-house training as well as seminars open to the public.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retutrn:
It was not possible to compute an ERR, and a measure of cost-effectiveness was not practical.
4.4 Financial *ate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact was substantial:
*   Prior to the TDSP, Treasury data was rudimentary and inconsistent, reporting was not timely, and
many Treasury departments (and staff) collected and analyzed their own data-with little
coordination between staff. Treasury publications contained inconsistent information. TDSP
dramatically improved this situation, making data series more consistent, timely, and available to a
greater audience. This significantly improved the quality of information available to economic
policy officials, to the research community, and to international organizations.
*   TDSP provided Treasury with a much-improved capability to formulate and monitor economic
policy. DMS is a key instrument utilized for Treasury's meetings with multilateral organizations,
and the General Directorate for Economic Research produces monthly, and in some cases weekly,
reports on the current economic program (which are also used for the IMF Stand-by Agreement).
-7-



1. Calculations of the public sector borrowing requirement -a critical parameter for Turkish
economic policy officials-can now be generated quarterly for the central government,
which was not possible before DMS.
2. The General Directorate for Economic Research regularly forecasts major economic
aggregates and Leading Economic Indicators.
3. In the perforrnance of the 5 studies described earlier, Treasury staff "learned by doing" and
thereby enhanced agency capabilities in each of the designated areas. In macroeconomic
modeling, for instance, Treasury staff is now changing the parameters of the models without
help from outside consultants.
*   Treasury staff received short-term training in accounting, statistics, international trade, and other
topics that would upgrade their skills in relevant areas.
*   The functioning of the Undersecretariat of Treasury is much more efficient than it was before
TDSP. This has been made possible by the use of a common data base, and possession of modem
computing and communications tools-including the Internet and e-mail. In addition, because they
have better information and can better plan borrowing needs, Treasury is more efficient at
managing external debt, for example, by optimizing the selection of the currency in which loans are
denominated. Regarding domestic debt, Treasury has much more current information on
conditions in the credit markets, and can "time" its offerings to obtain better terms.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
e  Soon after project inception, it became clear that the computing paradigm was shifting from a
mainframe-based architecture to a client/server arrangement. As noted earlier, after extensive
discussions, the Bank and the GOT agreed to shift the DMS architecture accordingly, which was
accomplished at no additional cost to the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
•   At the end of 1994, the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade was separated from the Treasury. This
separation caused some delay as a result of discussions over ownership of project resources, and the
new status of the DPC, and eventually a decision was made to provide the mainframe computer to the
Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, with the remaining resources staying with Treasury.
*   Treasury is a leading agency in Turkey, and its status, along with the generally high quality of its staff,
facilitated project progress.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
None.
5.4 Costs and,financing:
As noted earlier, total project cost was US$30.05 million, with US$9.20 million contributed by the Bank,
US$1.95 million by the Government of Germany (GTZ), and US$18.90 million by the govermment. Also,
no additional costs were incurred as a result of the shift to a client-server architecture from a
mainframe-based system. The loan closed on June 30, 2000, one year later than envisioned, resulting from
the delay over the arrangements for auditor training noted earlier.
6. Sustainability
- 8-



6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is judged as likely. Treasury is currently funding the DMS from budgetary funds, and is
upgrading equipment on a gradual basis. The visibility and perceived utility of the system within the
Undersecretariat is high, which facilitates funding. Management commitment to DMS is high, and staff
depend heavily on it for routine functions. The IT systems developed are likely to remain the backbone of
key Treasury operations for many years. Additional Treasury investment, including that from other World
Bank loans (e.g., Public Financial Management Project, PFMP) is being undertaken to further improve the
DMS infrastructure. Some complementary servers and software for the DMS have been provided under the
PFMP.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has been smooth. As noted, technical operation of the project has been
accomplished by Treasury staff since early in the project, and by project completion all operations-
including changes in the parameters of economic models-are being undertaken by staff. Funding is
generally adequate, with some of the resources used for hardware replacements and upgrades coming from
related Bank projects. The General Directorate for Economic Research is continuing to work with
directorates that have not thus far made satisfactory use of the DMS to modify the system to improve its
ability to meet their needs.
As noted earlier, Treasury has completed and has begun to implement a long-term training plan, which has
succeeded in institutionalizing on-going training and making it a customary part of operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during lending was highly satisfactory. As noted earlier, the project was highly relevant
to the country's development needs, and the design was straightforward and effective. The Bank team was
very strong, Government participation in the project was extensive, and the correspondence of ideas very
good. During project identification and appraisal, interaction between the Bank and the government was
essentially trouble-free.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision was satisfactory. In general, the project was implemented very smoothly, with no
disputes between Bank and implementing agency on what should or should not be done, and no need to
amend the project to change its objectives or key activities. The Treasury and the Bank team maintained
cooperative engagement to negotiate any corrections needed in technical or institutional aspects.
The Bank's team was of generally high quality, with excellent continuity. Technical skills were excellent,
and Bank efforts to transfer data on lending to Treasury databases were extensive and appreciated by the
GOT. In 1995, the bank team supervising the project was reorganized which improved the quality of
relations with the client.
As noted earlier, major changes were made in the approaches taken by the project in 2 areas--computing
architecture (from mainframe to client/server), and information dissemination (from physical facility to the
Internet). In both cases, decision-making was cordial and cooperative, with no major conflicts.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory.
-9-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As noted earlier, Borrower participation in project preparation was highly satisfactory, with excellent
cooperation and strong participation in project design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government Performance was satisfactory. Throughout the project, there was a strong concurrence of
views between the Bank and the Borrower concerning design, implementation, and nearly all important
project issues. Even though there were 2 major changes in project approach-DMS system architecture,
and the Economic Information Center-these were accomplished without formally modifying the objectives
or amending the Loan Agreement.
The Treasury Data Processing Center (DPC) was very effective at all aspects of system design,
implementation, and training. While consultant assistance was required for some aspects of the project,
Treasury staff were able to carry the work forward in nearly all cases.
It should be noted that early in the project, a Steering Committee was established with representation from
all general directorates to assure broad participation in project design, and later in the training program.
However, interest on the part of some units waned-depending on many factors including management
support-and participation narrowed as the project proceeded.
Nevertheless, as described above, some aspects of DMS implementation were less effective than what had
been envisioned, in particular the reluctance of some directorates to participate in the DMS, and several
relatively minor shortcomings in system design. Part of the reason for this was the existence of
organizational barriers within Treasury and between Treasury and other economic agencies.
7.6 Implementiig Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency, the Treasury General Directorate of Economic Research, was
satisfactory. There was a strong concurrence of views between the Bank and the Borrower concerning
nearly all important project issues. Changes in project approach were accomplished with minimal
formalities. Technical capabilities were strong in all phases of system design, implementation, and
training.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* Greater Attention Should Have Been Paid to Organizational Procedures to Support More
Efficient Data Processing and Analysis-In some instances, internal barriers within Treasury or
between Treasury and other agencies prevented the most efficient use of the DMS. Although this
deficiency was relatively minor in comparison to TDSP achievements, the Bank and the Borrower
should have explored mechanisms, e.g., internal incentive systems, that might have mitigated these
problems.
* Consultants Should be Carefully Selected for their ability to Transfer Knowledge-A major
purpose of the five studies that were conducted was to transfer knowledge to Treasury staff in these
areas. In several instances, Treasury was overly-insistent on selecting individuals who were
pre-eminent in their fields, but who were not always adequately available to Treasury staff, or as
effective at transferring knowledge as would have been desirable.
- 1 0 -



*   Use of "Off-the-Shelf" Software Proved Very Effective-TDSP utilized the best off-the-shelf
software available competitively in the market, which proved quite effective and avoided potential
delays and cost overruns. This was a distinct improvement over the initial intention to utilize
proprietary products tailored to the existing IBM mainframne computer.
*   Greater Attention Should Have been Paid to Internal Promotion of the DMS-At the start of the
project, a newsletter was published to inform Treasury staff and policy officials about the progress of
TDSP and the capabilities of the system, which was very important to generating intemal good will for
the anticipated changes. Unfortunately, this was discontinued after a few issues. It would have been
highly desirable to continue this newsletter, or an equivalent mechanism (e.g., quarterly seminars), to
circulate more widely inforrnation about the system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
COMMENTS OF THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY:
INTRODUCTION
The financing requirements of the Treasury Data Systems Project to the portion of the loan corresponding
to the equivalent of US$ 9.2 million was allocated to the project by the World Bank. The Government of
Turkey contributes US$ 19.2 million and complementary grant provided by the official German Institution
(GTZ) which is DM 4.3 million for consultant services and technical training.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project seeks to upgrade the technology, information, and analytic resources essential to the Treasury's
role in macroeconomic management. Specifically, objectives of the project are:
v  to improve the Treasury's monitoring and policy design functions;
v  to provide timely and efficient access for the Treasury staff to consistent and centralized data sources;
*   to enable the Treasury both to contribute to and draw upon the databanks of multilateral institutions
and other agencies;
*   to ensure that organizational procedures to support efficient data processing and analysis and
*   to support the development of a complementary institutional framework to invest in human capital.
An additional objective of the project is to improve the availability and reliability of economic data that the
Treasury provides to other agencies (i.e. the private sector, and multilateral organizations).
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In order to achieve these objectives, the project aims to support the Treasury to invest in:
A Data Management System: provides an appropriate technology environment for macroeconomic data
analysis; and consistent centralized databases to support this work;
Institutional Development: (a) training in selected economic, financial and technical subjects; (b) consultant
assistance for special studies and economic model building; (c) management and training consultancy
support and (d) establishment of the Treasury's Library and an Economic Inforrnation Center (EIC).
- 1 1 -



The main development objectives of the project, which are to provide the Treasury with the information,
technology and analytic sources essential to its role in macroeconomic management, have been achieved.
With the enhancement of the technology, establishment of the databases and analytic capacity, the Treasury
staff can now access and use consistent and centralized data sources.
1. Data Management System Component:
In order to improve the Treasury's monitoring and policy design functions, the Treasury's automation
infrastructure is replaced with the new client/server technology. The level of computer usage is now higher
than the Project's target. Currently, with the use of desktop computers connected to the local area network
in client/server architecture, the Treasury staff is using Information Systems, developed in-house or
purchased from outside vendors, working on secured and centralized databases and producing necessary
reports and other outputs.
For the data required from outside, the protocols to transfer data among agencies (The Central Bank, The
State Institute of Statistics, Istanbul Stock Exchange, The Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade) has been
signed and data exchange continues satisfactorily.
The Treasury Web Site has been established to provide the outside users with statistical data, produced by
the Treasury in compliance with the related legislation. Moreover, Intranet system within the Treasury has
been constructed and made operational.
The establishment of the "Data Management System" has been completed following these stages:
Preparing The Infrastructure Technology: The project faced a major challenge at the outset of
implementation. It had been designed to improve the mainframe based environment of the Undersecretariat
of Treasury and Foreign Trade, but it became clear that mainframe technology was rapidly becoming
obsolete and replaced by client-server based technology environment. The Bank asked the Treasury to carry
out a serious study of the matter prior to any further investment in the mainframe environment.
Before TDSP, Treasury had an IBM mainframe system for file and data servers and dummy terminals in
front of the end-users.
In the early project's objectives, it was aimed to upgrade the present mainframe, implement wiring of the
whole building, build a local area network. However, due to the recent technological improvements, it was
decided to change the infrastructure to establish a long-term solution with the use of personal computers
and client/server architecture.
Now, using personal computers within the Treasury, each expert is able to access data available in the
centralized, consistent and secured environment.
Converting Data: The Treasury had it's own limited data, stored in the mainframe disk storage space. It
was needed to make some verification to make it reliable. This data had been transferred to the related new
databases according to the new standards and made available to the users.
Designing New Databases: Since the data requirements of the professional users had not fully covered by
the Treasury database system, a new system has been developed under the TDSP. During the
implementation of the TDSP, a new methodology has been chosen on the basis of the new developments of
- 12 -



the information technology in order to meet the requirements.
In this context, data requirements study has been carried out in order to design new databases. The data
requirements of the General Directorates as well as organizational data needs and the relations among them
have been defined. Eight main data groups have been established: Domestic Debt, External Debt, Banking,
Insurance, State Owned Enterprises, Balance of Payments, Foreign Trade, and Main Economic Indicators.
Implementing New Databases: The project faced a major challenge at the outset of implementation. It had
been designed to improve the mainframe based environment of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and
Foreign Trade, but early into project effectiveness it became clear to the Bank and to the Treasury that
mainframe technology was rapidly becoming obsolete and replaced by client-server based technology
environment. The Bank asked the Treasury to carry out a serious study of the matter prior to any further
investment in the mainframe environment.
Using the technical specifications, physical databases have been created in compliance with the tables in the
third normal form by using the data sets listed in the previous section. Then, application development
studies have been carried out and each application development activity is regarded as a separate project.
First of all, an application development methodology SUMMIT-D offered by the Coopers & Lybrand
consultancy firm has been selected for project management related activities. This methodology has been
customized and has become "Treasury Methodology" for project management and implementation
activities. Within the scope of this methodology, project life cycle has been implemented for all the projects.
Finally, all projects are completed and applications are put into operation. Within the Treasury, the staff in
each Department is able to carry out his/her daily activities using this information systems.
Technical Training: In order to utilize the technical infrastructure, databases and applications efficiently
and effectively, a series of training programs has been carried out both for technical staff and the end-users
within the Treasury.
2. The Institutional Development Component:
The main aim of this part of the project is to support the development of a complementary institutional
framework to invest in human capital.
Short-term Training: The training needs of the Treasury staff was identified in the Short -Term Training
Plan, Long-term Training Program. Management Study Reports produced by the consultancy firm Price
Waterhouse and is completed in 1994. Following the division of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and
Foreign Trade to two separate Undersecretariats, the suggestions in these reports are cancelled and the
World Bank made arrangements for technical assistance to help the Treasury to finalize and -start the
implementation of Short-Term Training Plan. The World Bank's Leaming and Leadership Center helped
the Treasury to revise the training needs. A list of ten courses, includes Foreign Trade training needs,
Terms of Reference (TOR) for each course and Invitation Letter for proposals were prepared and agreed.
The Short-term Training Program has been completed in December 1999 and a final evaluation report has
been prepared by the Treasury. The total attendance of about 300 staff from 12 departments of the
Treasury and the Foreign Trade Undersecretariats have benefited from the Plan.
Long-term Institutional Training: In order to prepare an action plan for a Long-term Institutional Training
Program, (envisaged in the Loan Agreement) the above mentioned Report prepared by Price Waterhouse
did not satisfy the needs fully, but provided the basis for internal activities of the Treasury to
institutionalize the function. A Treasury Training Steering Committee has been founded to follow up the
- 13 -



long-term training needs with the participation of representatives from each Department of the Treasury.
This committee has been gathering each month periodically and bringing suggestions to the Treasury
management to develop human resource policy. A survey has been made to identify these needs annually
and an action plan is prepared and executed.
Training Program for Treasury Auditors: This activity was implemented in a manner different from that
envisaged in the project design though fully consistent with its objectives. A two year CPA/CFA training
program (envisaged in the project design) for four Treasury Auditors has been discussed during a
supervision mission in 1995. The Treasury requested a shorter term training which could be designed to
benefit as many auditors as possible. The Bank agreed this request to allow the Treasury to substitute
shorter courses supplemented on-the-job training and studying on the needs of the auditors. Invitation letter,
short list and TOR have been prepared and the Treasury invited bids, but the Ministry of Finance did not
authorize the clearance of the contract. After the extension of the Loan for the project, considering the
Ministry of Finance's objections, the Treasury prepared a new TOR, letter of invitation, short list and
invited bids. The training program for the Treasury Auditors has been contracted to the Deloitte and
Touche firm and training program started in January, 2000 and completed at the end of June and 25
auditors have benefited from the training program. The consultancy services reviewed with the firm and
clarified according to the Treasury Auditors' request. Thus, the main objective to increase the quality of the
audits of the World Bank projects has been achieved and the results of these improvements will be reflected
to the audit reports.
Training Center, Library, Publication Center and the Economic Information Center (EIC):
The establishment of the Training Center, Publication Center and the Library was completed as scheduled
at the beginning of the project and they are in operation. The Training Center is used for training
prograrns, seminars, and in-house training for database system users. The conference hall is reconstructed
by using domestic resources.
The Treasury created a web site to disseminate economic information. As the Project's data dissemination
model was rendered obsolete by the Intemet the access to the Treasury's web site has started to increase.
Although the way of operation of EIC different from envisaged in the project design, flexibility
demonstrated by the Bank in relation to accepting the EIC conditionally as fulfilled.
Economic Studies:
The Macroeconomic Model: The macroeconomic modeling study started in November 1994 with the
consultancy of Oxford Economic Forecasting (OEF). The macroeconomic model for Turkey-has been
prepared with a large scale of public sector accounts. Theoretical base of the model has been constructed in
line with the supply side of modeling. The phases of this study are as follows: the settlement of the model
specification, compilation of data, estimation of the behavioral equations, construction of the model base by
feeding the estimated equations and the identities into the model software and solving them simultaneously
and finally setting up the forecast base of the model. Since 1999, the model has been actively used for
quarterly forecasting and analysing the policy instruments in the simulations.
A Detailed Review of the Public Sector in Turkey and Consolidation of Public Sector Accounts: This
study started in October 1994 with the consultancy of Prof. Sweder van Wijnbergen. Mainly the study has
two parts. In the first part, it aims to analyse the agencies of public sector accounts in detail and try to
determine the existing accounting framework of these institutions. Here, a more detailed framework of
- 14 -



quarterly consolidated financial accounts of the public sector could be taken into consideration. The second
stage of the study concentrated on developing a model in order to determine sustainable public deficits. The
main aim of this model is to determine the necessary aggregate adjustments in operational deficits
consistent with the target debt and inflation levels under different assumptions about the paths of several
other macroeconomic variables. However, due to some disagreements between the Undersecretariat of
Treasury and the consultant, the contract has been terminated in February 1997. The second stage of the
study was almost complete and the model for analysing the sustainability of fiscal deficits is being used on
annual bases.
Leading Indicators and Financial Early Warning System :The study started in December 1997 with the
consultancy of German Research Institute-IFO. Leading Indicators part of the study observes the historical
relationship between the selected macroeconomic aggregates (reference series) from the real sector and
potential leading indicators. After eliminating short term seasonal and long term trend effects from the
series, remaining relationship between the series are used to forecast the future tendency of reference series.
Combining the indicators (each of which has historically displayed a fairly consistent leading relationship
with the cycle of reference series) into composite indices or Least Square Regression Models serves to
monitor such forecasts in advance. Financial Early Warning part aims to find out the vulnerability
indicators for the financial sector through logit analysis. The analysis are based on crisis periods of 26
countries including Turkey and combines findings into a crises indicator. The performance of this indicator
is tested through its signaling decision based on historical noise to signal ratio analysis for the financial
markets. The study is being tested and the predictions are performed for various macroeconomic aggregates
since the beginning of 1999.
Flow of Funds Study: The Objective of the Flow of Funds study is to model sources and uses of funds in
the financial markets, and to develop a framework to monitor the impact of the public sector deficit
financing on the financial markets, and on key macroeconomic variables (e.g., interest rates). Four
workshops were organized in Turkey and the Treasury's Core Working Group had the opportunity of
working closely with the consultants. The Treasury's Core Working Group (1) reviewed the literature, (2)
reviewed the Turkish financial system and (3) collected data from different sources, compiled and
reconciled them for consistency. The Treasury's Core Working Group and consultants worked on model
building. Due to hands-on working methodology, it is thought that the Treasury Working Group will have
the adequate capacity to improve and experiment with this initial model and carry out simulation exercises.
The econometric model helps to strengthen the capability of the Treasury in (1) monitoring developments in
financial markets, (2) analysing and monitoring the impact of public sector financial transactions in
financial markets; and (3) assessing potential financial and macroeconomic impact of alternative deficit
financing scenarios during the process of designing the Annual Programs and the Budget.
The Foreign Trade Study: This study was contracted with and conducted by Prof. Anne 0. Krueger, from
Stanford University. It is completed at the end of 1995. The report is published and disseminated to the
related agencies. Due to the study period and the process of the division of the Undersecretariat of
Treasury and Foreign Trade into the Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Undersecretariat of Foreign
Trade coincided, the benefit from the study was not as much as expected at the beginning.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORDS AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The project faced a major challenge at the outset of implementation. It had been designed to improve the
mainframe based environment of the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade, but early into
project effectiveness it became clear to the Bank and to the Treasury that mainframe technology was
rapidly becoming obsolete and replaced by client-server based technology environment. The Bank asked the
- 15 -



Treasury to carry out a serious study of the matter prior to any further investment in the mainframe
environment.
In the early phases of the project, the work on the data requirements of the Treasury and the wiring of the
building have been completed on time as envisaged in the project plan. Besides, the procurement procedures
of hardware such as computers, printers have been started. In the mean time, the mainframe system as the
base of Treasury's technical infrastructure has been interrogated in terms of new approaches and
developments in the Information Technology. In this context, with joint efforts by German colleagues
(GTZ), a profitability analysis has been conveyed in order to decide the future IT architecture of the
Treasury. It was a very critical decision to change the present infrastructure with a new technological
environment which has considerable costs of human resources, technology and money.
In the meantime, the Government decided to divide the organization into two as Treasury and Foreign
Trade Undersecretariats in the middle of 1994. At the end of the year, two new organizations have been
established working in the same building sharing the same resources. The project has been affected by this
situation in two ways: While one of the effects was a positive and constructive one to make the right
decision on a new technological environment, the other one has caused some delays in the project time plan
because of the long discussions of sharing the resources including the project. As the ownership of the
project, the Undersecretariat of Treasury has decided to leave the mainframe to the Undersecretariat of
Foreign Trade and establish a new technological environment despite some delay of the project.
The other factors affecting the project were the technological training and experimental level of the
Treasury's technical staff. Most of the technical staff had been equipped with the mainframe technological
knowledge and experiences and they had almost no experience on any CASE tool and working with a
methodology in the application development environments. Especially, in the early phases of the application
development works, a considerable time has been spent to give the necessary training to the technical staff
and as a result of this, the progress in the development works was slow because it required some reasonable
time to be effective and efficient for the staff.
On the other hand, the users of the applications were not comfortable on using the new generation systems
in terms of the technological and working styles. Especially during the testing phases of the applications, a
considerable amount of time has been spent to get feedback from the users.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
All of the applications are now running in the production environment and the users are comfortable to use
the systems. To provide the project sustainability, there are two things to do; one is to keep the technical
environment updated and upgraded. The Data Processing Center (DPC) staff are ready to meet the
changing requirements of the users. To do this the knowledge of the DPC staff and training will be updated
continuously. The users, especially the newcomers will be trained on the systems on request or in a planned
schedule. As stated above, the project reached its objectives and results are sustainable.
After the initial efforts to build up a stable networking environment, a second phase of efforts have been
exercised in order to achieve higher levels of availability. In this context, high availability measures such as
clustering and parallel servers have been set up. A third phase for the infrastructure was planned to have a
consolidated disk and server farms in order to achieve still lower risks and lower maintenance costs. An
upper layer of infrastructure is also under consideration such as the integration of all the functions of the
Treasury in the context of e-government.
- 16 -



On the other hand, there is the option to integrate the macroeconometric and the flow of funds models to a
bigger and more comprehensive model. In this case the flow of funds model will become the financial block
of the macroeconometric model already improved. However there are some obstacles to achieve this option.
First, the macroeconometric model is very complicated and such integration may be very cumbersome.
Therefore, we may have to use a more compact version of it for this integration. Secondly, the frequency of
data used in these two models are different. The macroeconometric model is on quarterly basis whereas the
flow of funds model is on monthly basis. Because of these obstacles, this will be an option to be considered
in the future. Yet in the near future, we could use these two models in coordination such that the results
obtained from one model may be used as exogenous inputs for the other one and/or vice versa.
BANK PERFORMANCE
The Performance of the Bank can be defined as highly satisfactory. During the implementation period, the
rapid changes in information technology caused to adapt the project accordingly and the Mission's flexible
approach on this matter has been appreciated especially after the new Mission leader has been assigned by
the Bank. It must be added that one of the main factors of the success of the project was the quality and the
continuity of the Bank's supervision team. On the other hand the delay in seeking the required no-objection
from the Bank was cited as a reason of delay for the procurement of goods and services.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The representative of Borrower on behalf of the Govemment of Turkey is the General Directorate of
Foreign Economic Relations and the project implementation unit is the General Directorate of Economic
Research of the Undersecretariat of Treasury. Borrower performance in terms of providing assistance and
guidance can be considered as satisfactory.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Outcome of the project is highly satisfactory. The Treasury's monitoring and policy design function in
macroeconomic management has been improved and the results both from databases and analytical studies
are being used very efficiently during the negotiations with the multinational institutions.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
The project activities were complemented by the PFMP in the areas of Debt Management and Auditor
Training and there is no additional operations are planned..
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The Treasury's technical and managerial level staff have obtained several experiences from this project.
First of all, the Treasury's technical staff has quitted working in the classical way of application
development studies and progressed a methodological way of thinking and working. During the
implementation period in the institutional components of the project especially analytical studies such as
macro model, early warning system and flow of funds studies have helped the Treasury staff to get an
opportunity to work with international consultants. This experience was very beneficial to improve the level
of competence of the Treasury staff and capacity building of the Treasury. On the other hand, the famous
consultants like Sweder Van Wijnbergen and Anne 0. Krueger were not as beneficial as other studies'
consultants. It was understood that due to their heavy schedule the famous consultants could not show a
satisfactory performance at the expected level.
- 17 -



The development environment was dependent on the staff in the past. So it was almost impossible to
provide the sustainability of the development works for any reason like staff turnover. Now the works done
in accordance with the rules of the methodology are documented, archived and thus, it is easy to transfer
the work and experience to another group of staff. The technical and non-technical staff has grasped the
project management concepts and so the interaction between the users and the technical staff became more
effective. In the project context, some foreign fiscal resources and consultancy services were used. It was a
good experience for the Treasury to cope with the consultants and to get the most from this. During the
project, the Treasury staff has attended to various training programs and equipped with the necessary
knowledge and abilities.
I
: Earlier versions of this note were received in September 2000 and March 2001.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Performance Indicators
Category                                           Actual Achievement (%)
A. Data Management System
1. Mainframe computer facility                    100
2. Databases
a. Requirements analysis                         100
b. System design                                 100
c. System development                            100
d. Data exchange protocols                       100
e. Implementation                                100
3. LAN/wiring                                     100
4. PCs                                            100
B. Institutional Development
1. Training
a. Short-term training
I. Planning                                     100
II. Implementation                              100
b. Long-term training
I. Planning                                     100
II. Implementation                             75
2. Studies
a. Public sector consolidation                   70
b. Leading economic indicators                   95
c. Sources and uses of funds                     95
- 19 -



d. Macroeconomic model                         100
e. Foreign trade                               100
3. Economic Information Center
a. Library                                     100
b. Data dissemination center                   100
Source: April, 2000, Supervision report
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million'
1. Data Management System Component                23.87          26.33         110.21
2. Institutional Development Component              2.17           2.42          110.21
Total Baseline Cost                                26.04          28.75
Physical Contingencies                              1.63          0.00
Price Contingencies                                0.42           0.00
Total Project Costs            28.09          28.75
Total Financing Required             28.09          28.75
Project Costs by Procurem nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method      -
Expenditure Category.     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.-    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         4.52          0.00        4.52
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.61         0.00         15.92         0.00        16.53
(0.57)       (0.00)       (5.44)       (0.00)       (6.01)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.94          0.00        3.94
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.21)       (0.00)       (3.21)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         3.10          0.00        3.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.61          0.00        27.48         0.00        28.09
(0.57)       (0.00)       (8.65)       (0.00)       (9.22)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method:
-Expenditure Category     ICB     . NCB            Other2       N.BF.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         4.49         0.00        4.49
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.61         0.00         16.69        0.00        17.30
(0.35)       (0.00)       (3.69)       (0.00)      (4.04)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.86         0.00        3.86
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.11)       (0.00)      (5.11)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         3.10         0.00        3.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
-21 -



5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00).        (0.00)
Total                          0.61             0.00           28.14           0.00           28.75
(0.35)          (0.00)         (8.80)          (0.00)         (9.15)    I
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
3 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
It was not possible to calculate the economic costs or benefits.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/91                         4   Technical consultant,
Procurement specialist (RMT),
Data systems specialist, Task
Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/91                        4   Task Manager, Financial
Specialist, Technical
Consultant, Economist
3/92                         6   Financial Specialist, Legal
Counsel, Disbursement Officer,
Economist (2), Technical
Consultant
Supervision
3/93                          4   Technical analyst, Data              S             S
systems specialist (2), Task
Manager
5/94                          5   Technical analyst, Data systems     S              S
specialist (2), Task Manager,
Debt specialist
5/95                          5   Technical analyst, Data systems     S              S
specialist (3), Task Manager
11/95                        6   Technical analyst (2), Data          S              S
systems specialist (2), Debt
specialist, Task Manager
5/96                          5   Data systems specialist (2), Debt   S              S
expert (2), Task Manager
1/97                         4   Technical analyst, Data systems      S              S
specialist (2), Task Manager
12/97                         4   Technical analyst, Data systems     S              S
specialist (2), Task Manager
5/98                          2   Technical analyst, Task Manager      S             S
11/98                        4   Technical analyst, Data systems      S              S
specialist (2), Task Manager
5/99                          3   Technical analyst, Data systems      S             S
specialist, Task Manager
4/00                          4   Technical analyst, Data systems      S             S
specialist (2), Task Manager
ICR
9/00                         2    ICR specialist, Task
Manager
- 24 -



(b) Staff.
I    Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 4                       14,800
Appraisal/Negotiation                     10                      37,000
Supervision                               65                     241,240
ICR                                        9                      33,263
Total                                     88                     326,303
- 25-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro poiicies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
D Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
LFinancial                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
L Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LIEnvironmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Gender                          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
I Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Fl Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  Ou  O HU
L Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  O U  0 HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Studies Performed During the Project:
Macroeconomic Modeling
Leading Economic Indicators and Financial Early Warning Indicators
Sources and Uses of Funds in the Financial Sector and the Public Sector's Share
Foreign Trade Study
Review of Public Sector in Turkey and Consolidation of Fiscal Accounts
- 28 -



