Report No. PIC4904
Project Name                     Ghana-Public Financial Management...
Technical Assistance Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       GHPE45588
Borrower                         The Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Mr. Joseph Adda, Project Manager
Public Financial Management Reform
Programme (PUFMARP)
Ministry of Finance
Accra, Ghana
Tel: 233-21-668-016
Fax: 233-21-663-854
Date Prepared                    October 1995
Project Appraisal Date           June 1996
Project Board Date               November 1996
1.      Background. Under its Economic Recovery Program (ERP), the
Government of Ghana (GoG) implemented various measures to
strengthen financial management. Although these reforms have been
useful in the light of the disarray in public finances at the start
of the ERP, they have been of a piece-meal nature. As a result, the
overall ability of the Government to manage its financial accounts,
particularly in the area of expenditure management, remains weak.
The 1993 Public Expenditure Review (PER) highlighted several
problems including weak budget preparation, lack of a uniform and
adequate accounting system, weak expenditure monitoring and control
mechanisms, and general lack of ownership and accountability by the
Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs).
2.      Subsequently, the GoG, with inputs from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), and the World Bank, developed a medium-term
strategy to reform the public financial management system, called
the Public Financial Management Reform Program (PUFMARP). This
strategy seeks to develop an integrated financial management system
in the public domain. This is an inter-related set of sub-systems
which plans, processes and reports upon financial resources, covers
a broad spectrum of financial management areas--budgeting,
accounting, revenue management, cash management, debt management,
auditing, and financial reporting--and is computer-based. The
principal factor which "integrates" the system is a common, single,
reliable database to, and from which, all financial data flows and
which is shared by all the financial users. This strategy has since
been adopted by the Cabinet and forms the basis for planned
measures (tranche conditions) supported by CIDA's Support for
Public Expenditure Reform (SPER) and the World Bank's Private
Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC). The implementation of this



strategy will be supported by technical assistance from ODA, CIDA,
and the European Union (EU). This project represents the Bank's
contribution to supporting this effort.
3.      Project Objective and Description. The fundamental objective
of the project is to enhance the efficiency, accountability, and
transparency of the financial management functions of the
Government. To that end, the project will support the
implementation of the GoG's Public Financial Management Reform
Program over a period of four years. But the project will feature
two critical aspects that distinguish it from past attempts at
dealing with financial management issues. First, it acknowledges
the complexity of public financial management and recognizes that a
piece-meal approach will fail in achieving adequate financial
management. Second, the project will follow an integrated approach
to public financial management which explicitly recognizes the need
to efficiently tie in various financial components into a coherent
and unified system.
4.      The Project will support the development of eight critical
components or sub-systems--(i) the budget preparation sub-system:
this supports the preparation of the budget according to the
Government's priorities and ensures the production of an effective
and viable financial plan for the Government; (ii) the budget
execution and fiscal reporting sub-system: this provides for the
effective control and monitoring of Government expenditures; (iii)
the accounting sub-system: this permits the classification,
recording, and analyses of all financial transactions in a timely,
reliable, and standard manner across Government; (iv) the cash
management sub-system: this covers the management of the cash
assets of the Government through projections and monitoring of cash
flows, receipt and control of revenues, and the processing of
disbursements thereby ensuring adequate liquidity for the
Government; (v) the debt management sub-system: this allows for the
management of the acquisition, servicing, and retirement of public
debt, both external and internal; (vi) the revenue sub-system: this
requires the timely and complete recording of Government account
receivables; (vii) the procurement sub-system: this enables the
procurement of goods and services in a transparent and timely
manner taking into consideration price competition, quality
control, and administrative expense; and (viii) the auditing sub-
system: this ensures fair, objective, and reliable external reviews
of Government performance.
5.      Some elements of an integrated financial management system
already exist in Ghana or are being implemented--such as the
customs system, the debt management system, and the Integrated
Personnel and Payroll Database (IPPD)--but may still need to be
reinforced. The precise nature, scope, or design of the new systems
is being worked out. However, work has been more advanced on
defining the critical elements of the budget and accounting
systems. Early work is being supported partly through the ongoing
Economic Management Support Project (EMS) and partly through a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The Project recognizes that
even though various components of the PUFMARP can proceed apace, it
-2 -



is essential that the design of each element of the system be
compatible to, and coherent with, the overall strategy and with
each of the other elements of the system.
6.      The Government's emphasis in the reform program is, in the
first instance, on the design of the flows of information and the
nature of the controls that need to be instituted; it is only then
that the system requirements--hardware and software--to support the
informational requirements will be developed. With respect to the
latter, emphasis will be on simple design, due regard to local
capabilities, a predominant emphasis on training, and ways to
ensure project sustainability.
7.      Project Financing. The initial estimate for the Project is
$31 million over 4 years. The Government is expected to contribute
about $3 million, IDA $21 million, and the cofinanciers $7 million.
The Project is expected to be cofinanced by ODA and EU.
8.      Project Implementation. The overall implementation of
PUFMARP, including those components supported by this Project, will
be managed by a PUFMARP Implementation Team. This Team is composed
of three groups of people: three contractual full-time staff with
special skills required for PUFMARP implementation-the PUFMARP
Manager, the Finance Manager, and the Information Technology
Manager; Government staff from the Ministry of Finance and relevant
ministries and agencies; and consultants designing and implementing
the various components. This Team will be supervised by a multi-
sectoral Steering Committee led by a Deputy Minister of Finance.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Technical Assistance Operations in
Ghana. There are several lessons of experience from those codified
in the Technical Assistance Handbook, as well as those provided by
the 1994 Performance Audit Report of an earlier Bank technical
assistance operation (Structural Adjustment Institutional Support
Project and the ongoing Economic Management Support Project) in
Ghana. These emphasize: (a) project ownership on the borrower's
side; (b) in-depth country knowledge on the Bank side; (c) having a
long-term strategic approach and not allowing short-term agendas
drive the project; (d) coordinating multi-donor aid; and (e) having
identifiable and, if possible, measurable indicators of both inputs
and outputs. These lessons are being internalized in the
preparation of this Project. In particular, the PUFMARP is fully
owned by the Government and is the outcome of the Government's own
PERs. The Bank Task Team combines members with requisite country-
specific knowledge and proven expertise in public financial
management and information technology. The Bank is coordinating its
efforts with the cofinancing agencies.
10.     Lessons Learned from Similar Operations in Other Countries.
Experience in supporting public financial management reforms in
other countries emphasize: (a) sponsorship, ownership, and
understanding of the project at the highest levels of Government;
(b) awareness of the large scope of the program at various levels
of Government; (c) good project management; (d) interagency
coordination; (e) training and support; and (f) appropriate
-3 -



management of the changes brought about by the reforms. Some of
these lessons are already being applied in the course of the
preparation of the project, others will be followed at the
appropriate time. The PUFMARP was discussed and approved by the
Cabinet. Subsequently, it was launched by the Minister of Finance
in July 1995. A series of workshops is being held to develop
awareness of the program at various levels of the Government and
within groups from civil society and elicit their inputs into the
process. In the interest of good project management, Ghanaian
contractual staff for project implementation were recruited through
an international search. Inter-agency coordination is being
facilitated through the inter-sectoral Steering Committee and by
the staff of the Controller and Accountant-General who are placed
in some of the major spending ministries. Adequate training and
support will be ensured as will be the change management. The
latter will be particularly necessary since the reforms will span
at least two budget cycles.
11.     Project Objective Category. The Project will promote
efficient fiscal management. This will be achieved through better
monitoring and control of public expenditures, improved allocation
of resources consistent with national priorities, enhanced
transparency, and accountability in the use of public resources.
The Project does not have any adverse environmental impact and is
in Environmental Category C.
12.     Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the
Government's PUFMARP, and consequently of the project, will depend
on the incentives that will be cultivated within the various levels
of Government for staff to properly use and adopt the redesigned
system. On a more technical level, project sustainability will be
undermined if adequate local support is unavailable to maintain the
system hardware and software.
Contact Point:                   Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997
- 4 -



