                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 28089-GH

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-29250 PPFI-P9870)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.4 MILLION (US$ 20.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                           FOR A

           PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                         May 26, 2004




Public Sector Reform & Capacity Building (AFTPR)
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Cedis
                                 Cedis 1.00 = US$ 0.000115
                                   US$ 1.00 = 8730 Cedis

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               Jamuary 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADMU    Aid and Debt Management Unit
BoG     Bank of Ghana
BPEMS   Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
CAGD    Controlers and Accountant General Department
CAS     Country Assistance Stategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Association
FIMTAP  Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
GOG     Government of Ghana
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPPD    Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database
IRS     Internal Revenue Service
MoFEP   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
OAG     Office of the Auditor General
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PUFMARP Public Financial Management Reform Program
VAT     Value-Added Tax



                             Vice President:    Calisto E. Madavo
                          Country Director:     Mats Karlsson
                            Sector Director:    Paula Donovan
                           Sector Manager:      Guenter Heidenhof (Acting)
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Guenter Heidenhof

                                            GHANA
                                  PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P045588                                                  Project Name: PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP
Team Leader: Guenter Heidenhof                                       TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 26, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-29250; PPFI-P9870
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other accountability/anti-corruption (P); Public expenditure,
                            financial management and procurement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/03/1995                                     Effective: 04/04/1997                04/04/1997
     Appraisal: 06/25/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  07/24/1999
      Approval: 11/07/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Lous Sarbib
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Guenter Heidenhof                              Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:             Guenter Heidenhof                              Asad Alam
ICR Primary Author:             Manga Kuoh


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
A. Statement
The project was intended to enhance the efficiency, accountability, and transparency of the
financial management functions of the Government. To that end, it pursued specific objectives

under eleven components among which a new arrangements for budget preparation and a modern
integrated financial management system were the far most important aspects in terms of expected
development impact and resource allocation.

(a) Budget Preparation. This component was directed at improving the planning and budgeting of
public expenditures and thus contributing to strengthening fiscal policy formulation and
implementation, by instituting a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as part of the
normal budgetary process.
(b) Budget Implementation. The objective of this component was to ensure an orderly and
smooth implementation of the budget including adequate flexibility for the MDAs to manage their
programs and projects and effective oversight by the Ministry of Finance in line with the
requirements of macroeconomic stabilization.
(c) Accounting. The objective was to develop and implement a system of accounting that (i)
properly shows the actual utilization of the financial resources of the country, (ii) enable the public
to ascertain the financial status of the Government, and (iii) serves as a major instrument in the
formulation and implementation of Government policies.
(d) Cash Management. This component sought to achieve an efficient provision of cash resources
while avoiding the immobilization of public resources and minimizing the costs of borrowing.
(e) Aid and Debt Management.          The objective was to strengthen the management of the
acquisition, servicing, and retirement of public debt.
(f) Revenue Management.          This component was directed at achieving greater tax payer
compliance and convenience and at increasing the efficiency of revenue collection, reporting, and
forecasting.
(g) Procurement. This component aimed at streamlining the procurement of goods, works, and
services, and establishing an effective monitoring and tracking system.
(h) Auditing sub-system. The objective was to promote the timely and effective audit transactions
to ensure that resources are being used for the specified purposes.

In addition, the Project design included three other cross cutting objectives, namely to :
(i) introduce computer based modern information technology in financial management whose
main element would be an integrated Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
(BPEMS) with the objective of linking 79 sites in Accra, the capital, and in the main provincial
cities;
(j) develop human resources by providing staff with the opportunities for the transfer and
acquisition of new skills and to contribute to a core of trained financial managers in Government;
and
(k) develop and implement an effective communication strategy to promote an understanding of
the content and usefulness of the financial management reforms being introduced.

B. Assessment
Objective Relevant to the context. The fundamental Project idea was relevant to the country
context, initiated by the Ghanian authorities, and in line with the orientations of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The primary economic challenge for Ghana in 1995-96 was to
establish the foundations for restored sustainable macro economic stability after a period of fast
growing and inflationary public spending in the early nineties (in 1994 the budget deficit was close



                                                 - 2 -

to 9 % of GDP and inflation about 75 %).              The policy reforms required needed to be
complemented by a variety of institutional reforms to strengthen public finance management.
Improved management of public expenditures and greater efficiency in their use were necessary to
stimulate investment and growth as well as to achieve substantive results in terms of poverty
reduction.

The Project, co-financed with DFID of the UK Government, the Canadian CIDA, and the
European Commission (EC) was meant to support the GoG Public Financial Management Reform
Program (PUFMARP). Indeed the Project should be examined in the broader set of reforms
launched in the 1990's which also included the National Institutional Reform Program (NIRP,
1994); and the Public Sector Re-Invention and Modernization Strategy (PUSERMOS).                  In
support of the PUSERMOS, the Bank approved the Public Sector Management Reform Program
(PSMRP) in May 1999, an adaptable program lending (APL) operation that was to be
implemented in three phases over a period of eleven years (IDA-31990 GH). The implementation
of the first phase (1999-2002, US $ 14.3 million equivalent) overlapped with the execution of the
PFIMTAP and faced similar constraints (see the ICR of the PSMRP being issued separately).
Another major component of the public sector reform was the Integrated Personnel and Payroll
Database (IPPD) supported by the DFID.

Expected results were far too ambitious. The complexity of the underpinning policy reforms and
the institutional changes envisaged, the large number of sub-systems included in the Project and
the option to implementing the two major new sub-system (MTEF and BPEMS) across the board
and in one go, created a very big conceptual, technical, and managerial challenge. In retrospect, it
appears that the administration was not sufficiently equipped to face such a challenge; a reality
that the Government pronouncements were not reflecting.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall project objective was not revised during implementation. However, there were two
component specific changes: (i) the scaling down of the BPEMS; and (ii) the transfer of support
to the IRS and Customs out of IDA Credit 29250. It should also be noted that, soon after Credit
effectiveness, the Government sought to cut out the piloting originally proposed for the MTEF
and to move toward early implementation of the full range of the budget reform across all
ministries.   While this idea was not pursued effectively because of difficulties in developing the
MTEF, it was not dropped totally either for several years.

3.3 Original Components:
Budget preparation subsystem ($ 4,00,000, MTEF only). Introducing a MTEF covering
recurrent and investment expenditures involved (i) formulating program categories for planning,
budgeting and accounting; (ii) preparing expenditure profile for each MDA in line with existing
policies; (iii) specifying the price basis for forecasts; (iv) integrating aid financed projects and
programs; and preparing a computer software for the purpose. Improvement in the formulation
of the annual budget were to include the preparation of a model budget circular indicating the
possible expenditure ceilings for MDAs, the installation of the budget software in the MDAs, and
the training of a core of budget and finance staff in the preparation of an MTEF and the use of the
information system in its preparation.




                                                - 3 -

Budget & Public Expenditure Management System­ BPEMS ($ 13,200,000). The sets of
activities under this largest component of the project dealt with accounting, budget execution and
monitoring, and the related computer software/hardware and staff training. This included:
(a) implanting a modern accounting sub-system which classifies, records and analyses in a timely,
reliable and standard manner all government financial transactions. To that end a key output was
to be a comprehensive Chart of Accounts covering receipts, expenditures, and borrowing that
would be coded to reflect the function, MDA, program and items of expenditure and to facilitate
a link-up with the National Accounts.
(b) designing and implementing a new Budget Classification System consistent with the Chart of
Accounts;
(c) the functional design of systems, processes, and procedures for expenditure controls; the
implementation of a computerized system to support the above functional design;
(d) the training of staff of budget, finance, treasury and MDAs in budget implementation and
monitoring and in the computer software of the BPEMS.

Cash Management Sub-System ($ 500,000). The Project was to introduce a modern cash
management system which can estimate, project, monitor, and manage revenue inflows and
expenditure outflows. This was to be achieve through inter alia:
(a) the preparation and submission of realistic cash needs by the MDA's to be reviewed by the
Ministry of Finance and linked to resource flow forecasts;
(b) determining public sector borrowing on the basis of the requirements of the cash flows;
(c) the automation of the cash management system to permit real-time reconciliation between the
CAGD, the Bank of Ghana, and the Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance;
(d) the development of a policy for the management of the cash assets including the rules
governing BoG treatment of the Consolidated Account and the financial arrangements between
the Government and the commercial banks on fees and interest payments.

Aid and Debt Management Sub-System ($ 400,000). Under this component, key activities
were to include:
(a) integrating the external debt database of the Aid and Debt Management Unit (ADMU), the
BoG, and the CAGD with appropriate electronic link up, so as to provide a single complete status
of Ghana's external debt;
(b) making operational an Aid (external loans and grants) Management Information System
(AMIS) that was under development; and
(c) strengthening the ADMU as the focal point for external debt data and technical unit including
through appropriate training for ADMU staff.

Revenue Management Sub-System ($ 9,400,000). The proposed reforms and activities in each
of the revenue sub-components were the following:
(a) Internal Revenue. To improve taxpayer compliance and increase the efficiency of revenue
forecasting, collection and reporting by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) the project was to (i)
develop and introduce a unique an common Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN); (ii) develop a
computer-based system for tax assessment, collection, reporting; and (iii) provide staff training.
(b) Customs, Excises, and preventive Services. The Project planned to support (i) an independent
assessment of the customs data management system; (ii) the development and implementation of a



                                                - 4 -

medium-term strategy for the modernization of customs data management and related computer
needs; and (iii) the provision of training in customs data management and related areas.
(c) Indirect tax reform. The Project was to help the Government to design and launch a new
indirect tax (level and structure of the tax rate, distribution of responsibilities among agencies
involved in tax collection, preparation of necessary legislation, logistical support for the
introduction of the new tax, and staff training) to replace the VAT that had been introduced in
1995 and withdrawn a few months later
(d) National Revenue Secretariat (NRS). The Project was to provide an independent assessment
of the role and organization of the NRS including its relationship with the other revenue agencies,
with the view to promoting rationalization and efficiency.

Procurement Sub-System ($ 300,000).            The Project was to support the review of public
procurement practices in Ghana with a view to formulating a national procurement code and
establishing mechanisms for monitoring compliance with the code.

Auditing Sub-System ($ 2,200, 000). In addition to logistical support and assistance for on-line
access to budget reports, the Project was to support the development of national audit standards,
specifications of audit reports, and the introduction of some value for money audit.           This
component was funded by the European Commission.

Computer-based Modern Information Technology.                 The Project was to support the
development of a strategy for the use of computer-based financial management systems including
the technology specifications to be used across Government, and the arrangements for
maintaining and upgrading the IT systems. Reflected by the development of the BPEMS, the plan
was to (i) use application software packages that are already available in the market , with the
required customization; (ii) select application packages that run under UNIX and use Relational
Database Management System (RDBMS); and set up the hardware in Local Area Network
(LAN) shape, interconnecting the different LAN servers in a distributive architecture.

Human Resources Development. In the context of an overall training strategy emphasizing the
use of domestic resources and facilities, six types of training activities were planned: (i) specific
training to key staff in the subject areas covered by the project components; (ii) general finance
training to people in the financial management chain, (iii) general training to staff in standard
computer software packages; (iv) training to senior-level management and policy makers in the
use of computer-based financial management systems; (v) end-user training in the use of the
computer-based financial management information systems; and technical training to selected
system analysts and programmers in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing
and implementing the information systems under the Project.

Legal Framework Revision. The Project required the review of the legislative framework and
the development of revised financial rules and regulations to be submitted to parliament for
approval.

Communication Strategy. The Project communication strategy component was to include (i) a
series of Project Inception Workshops designed for political appointees and senior officials as well



                                                  - 5 -

as influential target groups outside the public sector (private contractors, Chamber of commerce,
journalists, academics); and (ii) the publication of a newsletter to disseminate information on the
status of the reforms and present examples of public finance management practices from Ghana,
Africa and the world.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components were not substantially revised during implementation with the exception
of (i) BPEMS scope reduction from the original 79 sites linked to 67 and re-phasing of rolling
out; and (ii) regarding the Revenue Management component, the transfer of support to the IRS,
VAT Service and CEPS out of the Project. Bank teams proposed more important changes during
implementation regarding the scope, the phasing, and the management arrangements of the
project. The proposals were not accepted by the Borrower.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality At Entry is rated Unsatisfactory.
There were no requirement for QAE formal assessment at the time. As already indicated, the Project idea
was relevant to the country situation and the Project was part of a broader reform effort supported by
several donors.     Its objectives and components were determined with the full participation of the
Government and corresponded to Ghana's reform priorities. However the design and structure of the
Project had, from the outset, a number of characteristics that would affect its implementation and outcome
especially in the first four years.
A technology driven project concept based on a weak institutional analysis. The project was
prepared in the context of a very active macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue with close
collaboration between the Bank and the IMF. Yet, the whole concept of the project seems to
have been based on the assumption that most of the time <<the problems lie in the absence of
modern information technology>>. Indeed, the institutional analysis behind the Project as a whole
and each specific component was weak. While the Project documents rightly highlight gaps in
policies and outputs they scarcely relate the poor performance with the mandates, role,
organizational structures, overlapping responsibilities, outdates procedures and processes, and
skill levels. Moreover, beside a recurrent reference to the need to train staff (whose availability
and suitability for training are not discussed properly) the documents do not signal the necessary
institutional reforms/upgrading that should take place to meet the objectives set for the project.
This is reflected in the insufficient attention that seems to have been given to the following aspects
of the Project design.
A too large operation. The Project was too large with some 12 main components, not to
mention sub-components which are quite independent such as within the Revenue Management
component. In itself, this was to create a serious challenge for the Government in terms of
coordination and project management. The challenge was not as great for the donors because
each of them could focus on a smaller number of components.
Not realistic implementation schedule. The Project was overly ambitious in its implementation
schedule as well as regarding the rolling out methods for the MTEF and the BPEMS.
Project management arrangements not sufficiently thought through. The responsibility for
managing the development and implementation of the BPEMS ended up with the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which had no operational foundation (functional responsibilities,
expertise) to lead such a complex multi agency exercise.               In retrospect, many within the
Government and among the donors has wondered if a turnkey formula would not have been more



                                                   - 6 -

appropriate. However, such formula would not have optimal in terms of ownership, reason why
it was not retain at appraisal. Yet the proposed arrangements proved not to allow quick and
smooth implementation of the main components of the Project.                 The responsibility for
implementing the BPEMS for instance should have been given clearly to one of the key financial
management agencies (CAGD or the Budget Office) as recommended subsequently during the
Mid-term review in 1999 (as opposed to being vested in the PIU, an ad hoc entity without first
line responsibility for preparing and monitoring the budget, producing accounts, and executing
payments.. The failure to do so initially and to follow the mid-term review recommendation did
not provide an incentive strong enough to speed up the design and testing of the BPEMS.
Actually, with scepticism building up on the new system as the first targeted delivery dates were
being missed,     several units in CACD and the MoFEP were inclined to put emphasis on
consolidating operational solutions to their immediate needs that had no relation with the BPEMS
being developed (e.g. revenue forecasting and cash management). Moreover, the nature of
reforms envisaged in budget preparation and execution and in expenditure control required
decisions at a high level (often calling for arbitrage between two or three major MDAs). The
PMU could not make such decision (or facilitate it in a timely manner) not only because of its
limited in-house expertise in IT matters but also because of its position at a relatively low level in
Ghanian administration hierarchy.

Training and capacity building activities. A comprehensive training and capacity building
component was contemplated but its implementation arrangements and the sequencing of training
activities should have received greater attention. Actually, beside a general oversight from the
PIU, nobody was specifically assigned the responsibility for planning training activities, reviewing
training proposals and ensuring that steps were being taken in each component to deliver on the
six types of training activities listed in the PAD Technical Annex. Eventually, most of the training
envisaged could not take place because the budget and accounting systems were not ready.

Project appraisal work was incomplete as far as the costing is concerned. The initial Project
documents did not provide a comprehensive estimate of the final product and key components
(MTEF, BPEMS) were not costed fully.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall Project outcome is rated Marginally Unsatisfactory (U) because at the end of the
Project, the major specific objectives/results targeted in the key public finance management
subsystems had not been achieved. Indeed in spite of encouraging developments in a number of
small components, the two most important components in terms of expected developmental
impact and project resource allocation, are the ones that faced the greatest difficulties and for
which expected deliverables were not effective yet at the time of the ICR mission. However, the
effort made to enhance the efficiency, accountability, and transparency of the financial
management function of the Government during the 1997- 2003 period has certainly not been
wasted. With the adequate follow up now taking place (including refocusing and improved
sequencing and managerial oversight) Ghana should benefit from a fully integrated, modern and
effective public finance management system within the next three years or so.




                                                  - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Budget preparation / MTEF. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the expected outputs/timetable and the actual achievements at Project Completion, this
component has to be rated Unsatisfactory. However, the steps completed suggest that the
progress made so far will be consolidated and that sustainable MTEF based budget system is
likely to be in place in the medium term. While the objective of instituting a full fledged MTEF in
the normal budget process has not been achieved yet, the profile of budgetary reform has been
lifted and commitment to further reform remains strong at both the central and MDAs levels even
though MDAs experienced initial frustration when MTEF based budgets failed to turn into cash
releases.

Output 1 ­ Formulation of the annual budget within a complete rolling MTEF. A framework of
the main components of an MTEF has been put in place but the depth of implementation of the
elements of that framework is variable. The attempt to put all elements of an MTEF in place
across all MDAs in what effectively became a single cycle resulted in superficiality in a number of
key respects. Improvement in macro-fiscal planning and forecasting that is essential to an effective
MTEF, as well as contingency management were limited. Revenue forecasting was weak and a
budget model driven by agreed parameters which would lead to realistic expenditure ceilings is
yet be in place. The lack of robustness at the top end of the process, coupled with a period of
fiscal instability, severely undermined the effectiveness of resource management at the sectorial
level. For a period of some years after the initial introduction of the MTEF, allocations made
through the MTEF process were largely irrelevant as resources actually available to sector
management depended on unpredictable and opaque in-year decisions about cash releases.

The parallel introduction of an overarching MTEF process at the national level and detailed
activity costing procedures at the individual budget center level in a weak environment of overall
fiscal control led to a lot of detailed work at budget center level which had little demonstrable
value in the short term. Moreover, the objectives of an MTEF in encouraging focus on planning
resources in the medium term and the rolling over of estimates from one cycle to another to
achieve a stable basis for planning has not yet been achieved yet. Estimates for years beyond the
budget year are produced, but are not yet taken seriously in the process. There has been little
regard yet to the incentives required for them to be taken seriously.

The new budgeting process that seeks to link `bottom up' resource allocation to activities and
outputs made by MDAs with sectorial objectives and `top down' resource envelopes linked to
overall fiscal forecasts seems to have helped to break the mold of incremental budgeting and has
led to some planned and strategic shifts of resources. But the process is recognized as being
embryonic at each stage and in need of continuing development. MDAs feel that MoFEP is paying
insufficient regard to their strategic arguments about priorities and is insufficiently engaged in the
strategic discussions that they have at sectorial level. MoFEP perceives MDA submissions and
accompanying strategic plans as being weak.           However, there seems to have been some
improvement in the current budget cycle for 2004 in which MoFEP has sought to upgrade their
presence at sectorial discussions and to be more flexible in discussions about resource
deployment. The framework also appears to have been useful in seeking to link budget allocations



                                                 - 8 -

to the poverty reduction priorities and activities planning.

For an MTEF based budget system to be effective, attention is required for the introduction of
review processes to check on the extent to which planned outputs have been achieved and to feed
lessons back into the budget process in subsequent cycles. Since, until recently, the system has
failed to deliver to spending agencies the budgeted level of resources, accountability for results
has been undermined. Nor has a process been established of strategic expenditure review through
which past patterns of expenditure can be understood and challenged. However, it is now
proposed to introduce such a review program starting with pilot sectors in 2004.

Another shortcoming so far is that the very important staff related expenditures are yet to be
integrated. These account for some 45% of overall Government expenditure and for key
Ministries such as Education and Health closer to 70% - 80%. Staff related expenditures were left
aside from attempts to relate expenditure allocations to outputs and objectives largely because of
inherent lack of capacity and instability in the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database (IPPD)
system which made it impossible to account for staff expenditures at other than a very aggregate
level. Obviously, this exclusion continues to limit the value of MTEF.

Budget reforms also ran ahead of the implementation of new accounting systems (see related
component) which made it difficult to account for expenditures in terms of the new budget
classification introduced to complement the MTEF system. This severely undermined the ability
to review impact and establish accountability in terms of the new analytical framework.

Output 2 ­ A comprehensive broad based budget. A framework has been established, but has
been only partially implemented. Resources provided by donors are not fully captured yet.
Improvements in the identification and capture of donor funding are gradually being facilitated by
the introduction of pooled budget support contributed to by a number of key donors including
IDA.

Internally generated revenue by MDAs has also only been partially captured in the budget
process. The problem is partly due to the inherent incentives in the system that encourage budget
centers to understate local revenue raising and then deploy the additional revenue off budget. The
establishment of new Funds such as the Education Trust Fund, where planned expenditures are
not integrated with sector output based budgets also potentially undermine the MTEF concept.

Output 3 - Computerized budget preparation process. The original intentions were to introduce
computerized budget preparation as an integral part of the BPEMS system, but delays in BPEMS,
led the Government to adopt a stand alone system used originally in another country and known
as ACTIVATE. The functionality of this system is not ideal in that it involves multiple handling
and transfer of data and is clearly not integrated with accounting systems to facilitate
accountability for planned activities and outputs. It does, however, support activity costing and
has familiarized budget center staff with those concepts.

Output 4 - Printed budget on an MTEF basis. Data derived from the MTEF based processes has
been integrated with the formal budget documentation. A recognized weakness, however, is that



                                                 - 9 -

the budget preparation process is treated as a single structure and detailed data at the budget
center level has all been dragged up into the formal budget document with the effect that the
document is many feet thick and detail tends to overwhelm the bigger and more strategic picture.
This process of `micro-approval' also tends to introduce a degree of rigidity into budgetary
processes. The problem has been recognized and steps are being taken to both standardize
analysis structures across MDAs where it is sensible to do so and make a clearer distinction
between data that is appropriate for Parliamentary approval and that which is more appropriate to
managerial control.

Output 5 ­ Budget Guidelines approved by Cabinet. Under current processes, guidelines for the
budget year and the medium term are produced by MoFEP and approved by Cabinet. Their
connection with discussions with MDAs in budget hearings are somewhat opaque and the
guidelines for years beyond the budget year continue to receive limited attention. In addition, the
budget cycle needs to start earlier to make room for timely strategic consideration in the cycle.

Budget Implementation Sub-System / BPEMS. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

For this component too, the overall rating has to be Unsatisfactory given the outputs expected at
Appraisal. However, progress made in piloting the BPEMS in the MoFEP and the CAGD, and the
readiness of the system to be rolled out to the Ministry of Health, indicate that the introduction of
institutional changes and new business processes associated with the BPEMS should be
completed within the next three years or so.

The Project implementation schedule called for BPEMS pilot implementation by June 1998, its
partial operation for the 1999 budget and its full operation for the 2000 budget. At the end of
2003 and after seven years of effort, none of the outputs listed as performance indicators under
this component had been produced through the BPEMS. Accounts and financial reports were still
produced using parallel systems. Moreover, the cost of implementing BPEMS initially estimated
at US $13.24 million totalled US$19.88 million at ICR preparation, reflecting a 50.15% overrun.


At the end of 2003, the status of the BPEMS component was as follows:
a)      Requirement definition and design. The functional requirements and re-engineering
processes and procedures have been developed and the functional design of BPEMS is considered
adequate by the potential users.
b)      Technical infrastructure. Due to delays in completing the building of the Financial
Information Center, the hardware systems (including the production database and application
servers) were housed in an interim data center with limited space though. Relocation to the
permanent site has been planned for mid 2004. Concerning the networks, 56 MDA sites have been
equipped with LANs in readiness for accessing the BPEMS. With the WAN, 18 pilot sites in
Accra have been linked to the interim data center over a wireless local loop.
c)      Financial management software. A new 41 digit Chart of Account has been adopted and
is in use throughout GoG. The financial management software has been installed since January
2003 and is now being used at the MoFEP and CAGD to capture and process journals,
requisitions, purchase orders, invoices, receipts and payments. Modules already installed



                                                - 10 -

(although they are still running in parallel with older systems) include General Ledger, Public
Sector Budgeting, Accounts Payable, Account receivable, Cash Management, and Purchase
order.
d)      Training. Intensive training activities have taken place (Re discussion of Human Resource
Development component bellow). However the ability of the teams to fully utilize the system and
to maintain it is yet to be proven.

The BPEMS has encountered delays and challenges including: (i) changes in project scope; (ii)
long procurement cycles; (iii) changes in key project personnel on Government and contractors
sides; (iv) coordination problems between inter-related component parts with different software
and hardware suppliers; (v) the decision taken part way through the Project to migrate from
UNIX to Windows IT environment was justified but an additional cause of delays; and (vi) the
interruption of services by some contractors due to divergence of views with GoG on their
performance and contractual obligations etc. However, steps had been taken to capitalize on
substantial progress made over the last 18 months and to get the BPEMS fully developed and
running by the end of 2004 in the sites located in Accra. This includes re-prioritizing and
formulating objectives for the mid 2004, end 2004 and beyond 2004. It also require reinstating
effective working relations with the contractors and changes in the Project management
arrangements. Both had started before the ICR mission.

Cash Management Sub-System. Not rated.

Because of the delay in implementing BPEMS, the Project contribution to improving cash
management has been limited. However, in 2001, with the assistance of an IMF mission, the GoG
developed a stand alone Cash Forecasting and Commitment Control System which, together with
the improvements in the budgeting process discussed above, enable the Government to work on
the basis of more realistic cash plans and the MoFEP to make releases in line with budget
allocations.

Aid and Debt Management Sub-System. Rating: Marginally Satisfactory.

This component was co-financed by the Commonwealth Secretariat who provided software for
aid and debt management. IDA contribution was largely related to the provision of equipment
(computers, server) and some elements of training. In spite of the delays and the incomplete
nature of achievements, it is rated Marginally Satisfactory because of the improvements already
noticeable.

Output 1 ­ Production of regular reports on amount and make up of public debt.
Systems for tracking debt separately improved in BoG and MOF, but has not achieved full
integration with CAGD system yet. Also the delays in BPEMS means that integrated links with
the other financial sub-systems have not yet been achieved. However, information is exchanged by
diskette and the ADMU is in position to produce an integrated annual report on a timely basis.

Output 2 ­ Production of annual report on guarantees of external loans to parastatals.
The improved information systems now pick up guarantees relating to parastatals. An annual



                                                - 11 -

report is produced and notes are made in the national accounts.

Output 3 ­ Production of reports on external aid in kind. There is a continuous effort to evaluate
and capture aid in kind programs such as food aid (using the AMIS system up to the point where
the BPEMS will be fully operational). However, the utility of the system is still undermined by the
weak data flows from beneficiary agencies and donors.

Revenue Management Sub-System. Rating: Satisfactory

In terms of specific outputs targeted at Appraisal, the main objectives of this component have
been achieved including the implementation of the tax identification numbering system (TIN), the
introduction of a new indirect tax regime, and the training of staff. This has contributed to the
improvement in Ghana's revenue performance. Total tax revenue increased by about 280 percent
between 1999 and 2002 (in percentage of GDP from 14.8 percent to 17.5 percent), and estimates
for 2003 suggest further increases.

The financing for support to IRS and Customs was taken out of the Project in November 1998 in
order to reallocate resources to meet the increased cost of the BPEMS software.

Procurement Sub-System. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The requirement of the Project, to produce a study on procurement options, was met in December
1997 (a year behind schedule) and effective follow up action was undertaken including the
preparation of a draft Procurement Law which was largely discussed within and outside the
administration.   The draft law which was reviewed by Bank procurement specialists and
considered satisfactory. The Bill was sent to Parliament in November 2002 and in March 2003 the
Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) invited the general public to send comments on the
Bill. The Procurement Bill has since been enacted into a law (Act 663) by Parliament and given
the Presidential assent on December 31, 2003. The procurement law seeks to regulate
procurement practice and ensure it is carried out in a transparent and structured manner, instead
of in a discretionary manner, as is now the case in many public entities. The law places
accountability and responsibility for procurement on Heads of Procuring Entities and other public
officials to whom Government has delegated responsibility for carrying out public programs and
use of funds. The Law endeavors to harmonize Government and Development Partner
procedures. This harmonization will reduce the cost of procurement transactions and areas of
conflict.   It should be noted that the implementation of the new Procurement law is not
generalized yet and the actual impact of the reform is yet to be seen.

Auditing Sub-System. Rating: Marginally Satisfactory.

This component was funded and contracted by the European Commission. In spite of major
slippages in the delivery of outputs, there has been an encouraging start in building up the audit
capacity and practices. However, the sustainability of progress achieved during the Project period
remains uncertain. All will depend on the ability of:         (i) the audit services to recruit the
appropriate number and right mix of staff and to offer adequate levels of remuneration; and (ii)



                                               - 12 -

the GoG to make adequate and regular budget allocations to fund the activities of the audit
services.

Output 1- Standards for internal and external audit.         An audit Manual has been prepared
together with related guidelines and a Quality Control manual. At the time of the ICR mission in
November 2003, 90 staff had been trained using these documents as a base and further 210 were
planned by the end of 2004. This will bring the number of trained staff to about the third of the
total external audit complement. There has also been some training of trainers. In sum, training
has been useful but has not yet achieve a critical mass through which it can be rolled out and
deepened.

Output 2 ­ A start on value for money audits. The effort in this area was encouraged by the
inclusion of a requirement for VFM audit in the Audit Act submitted to the National Assembly.
Training was provided to 23 auditors in VFM audit techniques and four reports has been
submitted on education programs

Output 3 ­ Computer access to accounting system and budget implementation system. A large
number of work stations were installed in the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) with related
area networks. In addition, 18 staff have been trained specifically in computer audit techniques.
However, the achievement of this output has been hampered by the delays in BPEMS.

Output 4 ­ Regulations for contracting audit firms to perform audits. Contracting out of audits
has become a regular practice in line with written internal operational procedures of the OAG.

Output 5 ­ Regulations regarding follow up systems for audit recommendations. These
regulations are provided for in the new Audit Act that was before the National Assembly at the
time of the ICR mission.

Output 6 - Annual audit plans for each year. A plan is now produced based on risk assessment
principles and in a collegiate manner. However, the cost of the plan has not been fully estimated.
Consequently, the extent to which actual activities will be in line with plans is yet to be seen.

Output 7 - Annual assessment of staff performance. This is not effective yet. Performance
appraisal is planned for 2004 together with the introduction of a time recording system.

Output 8 ­ Internal audits which help management better utilize resources. A legislation on
Internal Audit has been approved by Parliament and given Presidential assent on December 31,
2003. On the ground, little seems to have been done on internal audit during Project
implementation.

Human Resources Development. Rating: Unsatisfactory.

As already signaled, several training activities were organized in the context of implementing
individual Project components including for the staff involved in MTEF, BPEMS and Audit
reforms. However training of end-users for the BPEMS, which is key to the effectiveness of the



                                               - 13 -

whole reform has only been embryonic. Actually, the overall training strategy that ha been
envisaged has not been implemented, largely because the MTEF and BPEMS were not
operational yet. As a consequence, the initial training provided could not be put to use and was
lost to a large extend. Even in areas like Auditing where the delays in MTEF and BPEMS did not
affect training program severely, the critical mass of trained officials to the new systems and
procedures/processes was not achieved.

Legal Framework Revision. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In spite of substantive delays, the Project has supported the planned revision of the legal
framework for financial administration in Ghana. Two pieces of legislation has been developed
including the Financial Administration (FAR) 2003 (Act 654). The FAR Bill was presented to
Parliament on December 5, 2002 and gazetted on October 31, 2003. It was enacted on enacted
November 14, 2003. Another legal framework is the Central Internal Audit Agency (CIAA) Bill
which was enacted by Parliament and given Presidential assent on December 31, 2003. Hitherto,
internal audit functions are performed by staff of the Controller and Accountant General's
Department. The CIAA Act 2003 seeks to establish an oversight institution for internal audit in
the country and regards internal audit as a management tool for each MDA. The CIAA will
provide regulations, standards and guidelines for internal auditing.
The Moderately Satisfactory rating reflects the achievement of specific outputs (pieces of
legislation) as well as the uncertainties remain regarding the effective application of the new
legislation and its actual impact on public finance management practices and performance.

Communication Strategy. Rating: Unsatisfactory.

A few workshops were organized in the months following the launching of the Project and the
Project Management Unit issued a newsletter during the first five years. These activities do not
seem to have had a significant impact within the administration. Understandably, it appears that
the delays and difficulties of the BPEMS provided a disincentive to the Project Management and
the MoFEP to embark on an aggressive communication strategy.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact is assessed as Substantial because the improvements
developed, tested and, in some cases, introduced are being used. The introduction of the MTEF concept has
shown the way to using the budget as a tool towards a more strategic approach to management of public
service delivery. It also helped to reinforce commitment to budgetary reform which became stronger and
more credible as revenue performance improved. The uniformed chart of account and the changes in
business processes that the BPEMS is designed to introduceit should facilitate the consolidation of financial
reports, improve cash management, reduce invoice payment cycle, and enhance the ability to control and
track public expenditure in Ghana in the medium term. Other positive developments are being consolidated
to include an enhanced revenue management system based on a more reliable system of identifying and



                                                   - 14 -

monitoring tax payers, a heightened profile of the auditing function in the public sector, and a higher
literacy level in IT in a several public financial management agencies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Ghana's fiscal problems were exacerbated by changes in commodity prices. In the beginning of the Project,
the Government was receiving recommendations from various donors that were not always consistent.
Moreover it was not solely responsible for the timing of external financing. This has made it difficult in the
beginning of the MTEF development and testing process to establish the credibility of the system
envisaged.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l     The lack of continuity in the management of the project. Between 1997 and 2003, there has been 3
     Ministers, 5 Deputy-Ministers, 3 Project Coordinators, 3 Controllers and Accountant Generals, 2
     Budget Directors.
l Government's late decision to really address the issue of Project management and to provide the Project
     with a revised management arrangement more relevant to the challenge of promoting and coordinating
     such major reforms as the MTEF and the BPEMS. Failure to move early enough in this areas exposed
     the PIU unduly.
l Delays in resolving a major IT procurement issue stalled Project implementation for about a year. A
     quicker response from the Government on additional explanations requested by the Bank after an
     in-depth review of the biding documents, would have made a substantial difference in terms of relation
     with the contractors and, more generally, the outcome of the Project.
l    Government's tendency to opt for across the board implementation schemes. Concerning the MTEF for
     instance, while the original program of implementation was probably itself over-ambitious and
     did not allow sufficient room for realistic sequencing and risk management, the problem was
     made worse by decisions made to cut out the piloting originally proposed and move towards
     early implementation of the full range of reforms across all Ministries.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
An area in which the PIU could have done better was the management of consultants and service
providers. During the life of the Project, there were too many serious disagreements between the
PIU and service providers, resulting in the demobilization of some of them. This obviously
delayed the implementation of other sub-components of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total Project cost was estimated during appraisal time as US$30.81 million. At the end of the Project,
actual disbursements were in line with the original financing plan. The IDA Credit for the Project was
US$20.9 million to be originally disbursed over a period of 5 years. The EC and DFID were to provide
grants totalling US$6.9 million. The remaining balance of US$3.01 million was to be financed by GoG. At
the end of the Project, the Bank had disbursed a total of US$19.03 million (US$152,692 was undisturbed
and there was an exchange loss of about US$1.7 million). The EC had disbursed US$2.56 million whilst
DFID had disbursed US$4.58 million. A total amount of US$5.49 million local currency equivalent had
been disbursed out of GoG's counterpart funds.
It should also be noted that the financing of the 50 percent cost overrun of the BPEMS component was
made possible through the transfer or the revenue management component out of the Project.

6. Sustainability



                                                     - 15 -

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of progress under the Project are rated Likely.
In spite of serious implementation difficulties and major time and cost overruns, the Project has initiated
institutional improvements in the areas of budget preparation and execution, expenditure control, revenue
management, and auditing. Most of these initial improvements are likely to be consolidated in the medium
term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The MTEF component which was carried out under PIU with consultants has now been streamlined into
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. A new Budget Development Unit has been created as part
of the Budget Division to spearhead the implementation of the MTEF. The Tax Payer Identification
Numbering (TIN) Secretariat which used to be run as a section of the PIU section is now under the
Revenue Agencies Governing Board.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance at lending is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory because of the Project relative lack
of realism. While the Project rationale, objective, and components were relevant and properly articulated,
there was a disconnect between the complexity of an operation that aimed to introduce systemic changes
and the loose design of its management and implementation arrangements. Indeed the Bank did not bring its
rich experience on the design of the projects in countries with weak institutional capacity to bear. The
schedule for implementing the Project was unrealistic, and the costing was not done thoroughly. Given the
large number of agencies involved and the limited capacity and authority that the PIU was to have, more
responsibilities should have been given to the CAGD and the Budget directorate. In addition, it would have
been appropriate to develop the Project monitoring and evaluation arrangements fully, spelling out the
related procedures up front. This would have facilitated early flagging of issues and appropriate
decisions/actions in a timely manner. While the Bank project team benefitted from inputs from peer
reviewers as required at the preparation stage, it seems that greater managerial guidance and more technical
support to the team during project design were necessary.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is ratedM Marginally Satisfactory during the implementation phase. The
supervision of the Project has been very challenging for the Bank team because of two constraints: the
weaknesses of the Project design and the Ghanian authorities reluctance to accept a major scaling down of
the Project or to adopt a modular project concept. Bank proposals at mid-term review (1999) for scaling
down the Project substantially and revising its management arrangements did not meet the Government
agreement. In spite of the major implementation difficulties and the large cost overrun that could be
foreseen in the main Project components, the Bank did not feel that canceling the Project would have been
the appropriate response. The Bank team took the opportunity of ensuing supervision missions to work
with the Ghanian officials on the issues and identify ways of making as much progress as possible in each
component. The effort to get the Project move forward with key elements, facilitated more fruitful relations
between the Government and the service providers and the initial improvements in public finance
management that have been indicated in the previous sections.

However, it should be noted that the changes of Task Team Leader (three TTLs during the first three
years) did not help. Management oversight of Project supervision should have been much stronger to
reduce delays on the Bank side at times and to facilitate the passing over of the project supervision
responsibility from one TTLs to another. Concerning Bank operational processes, the PSRs were silent on



                                                     - 16 -

the progress towards the achievement of the performance indicators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Because of the above, the overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in spite of the
major effort made during the supervision phase of the Project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the GoG is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The GoG participated actively and
effectively in the preparation of the Project, officials at all levels showing their commitment to the public
finance management reforms and to the specific objectives of the Project. However, the Government
continuous push for an ambitious Project concept including rolling out of the computerized systems at a
large scale was detrimental to the quality of the Project design. In addition, Government officials were the
better placed to measure the risks associated with a loose design of the management and implementation
arrangements.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The government provided all the counterpart funding
required for the running of the project. However, government through the Steering Committee did not foster
a good inter-agency coordination. The Steering Committee lost its strategic focus of steering the Project. In
addition, the Government did not implement the recommendation of the Mid-Term Review Mission to move
the responsibility of implementing BPEMS to either CAGD or the Budget Division of the then Ministry of
Finance.

The change of government put the entire project on hold for almost a year. The new government, after
having conducted its own review, came to the conclusion that the project objectives were still valid and did
not accept the Bank proposal to scale down the Project (especially the BPEMS component) in order to
make it leaner and more effective. These delays affected the relations with the service providers both in
terms of interaction for system development and settlement of contractual obligations.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency is rated Marginally Satisfactory. Available project documents indicate that work
plans were prepared periodically to guide the implementation of the Project. Reporting was done regularly
as required even though some annual reports were not prepared on time. Comprehensive management
reports were prepared periodically and these indicated progress made against planned objectives and issues
planned for the next reporting period. In the area of financial management, the PIU did well by keeping
good financial records and commissioning annual audits. All but one of the audit reports were submitted in
time. However, some of the procurement processes for goods and services were not well managed, and the
PIU often did not anticipate problems or was not in position to initiate the necessary steps of action.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of GoG at the end of the Project has to be rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, in
spite of the effective steps taken in the second half of 2003 to improve Project management and
implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation of the project.

1. Concerning project preparation, this operation underlines the importance of ensuring quality at entry



                                                     - 17 -

including the need to have a solid assessment of project readiness for implementation. With a flaw in the
initial project design and whatever the ensuing effort to put the Project on track, the price to pay would be
high and the results limited. In this case, the serious under costing of one of the key components of the
Project for example is reflective of the incomplete preparation of the project.

2. A clear lesson from the experience in Ghana is that careful attention to the sequencing of the reform is
essential within the individual component, with other related project components and with other reforms
being undertaken outside the project. This sequencing could be realistic in terms of time-scales not just to
allow changes to be introduced with regard to capacity to implement, but also to allow risks to be managed.
It should also pay attention to where the critical path comes together with those of other developments - for
example the timing of introduction of the new accounting system and payroll management.

3. The ambition attached to the original project design exceeded any reasonable expectation given the
experience of such budget preparation and public expenditure management systems in Ghana and
elsewhere. A more modular approach would have been more realistic. Initial system design
documentation talked in modular terms and indeed, like any large scale software, the system contains a
number of modules. An approach, for example that focused initially on a "core" system that delivered
information needs at the center and distinguished that from modules that met the needs of the wider MDA
community would have made it easier to ensure early delivery of a basic product on which further progress
could then be built. A more sequenced approach to implementation would then have been possible with
clear products at each stage that would have provided confidence and a launch platform to be the next
stage.

4. Another lesson is the confirmation of the need for sufficient attention to institutional issues
at the initial stages of project design.
(a) System design and implementation would have been facilitated by attention to creating a clear
vision of how the public financial management processes of the future should work and building a
higher profile for the practical benefits expected to flow from those business processes. This
would have help ensuring that policy makers and agencies involved in the reforms are all working
off the same and consistent change implementation agenda. There is an impression that as the time
has gone by and the project has been without clear output, attention has focused more and more
on technical issues and less on what is being strived for and why. Clearer and detailed statements
at the beginning would have helped keep both system developers and potential users focused on
essentials rather than `nice to haves'.
(b) Finally, it is clear that attention and agreement was needed at the start of the project as to how
technical support arrangements were to be organized and their migration through implementation
to on-going maintenance was going to be achieved. The implementation of this project
represented a massive upgrade in the existing usage of IT in the public sector in Ghana. It
overwhelmed the capacity of existing IT support institutions. (c) Greater modularization would
also have made it easier to focus `ownership' in the right place at different stages of system
implementation. This `ownership has clearly been lacking. Steering Group arrangements have
quite rightly sought to create a forum for bringing stakeholders together. However, the Steering
Group has never been a solution to creating the clear ownership and direction from a single and
stable point in the public service structure that experience suggests is vital to successful
implementation of complex IT solutions. A more modular approach would have made it possible
for the C&AG to be clearly the `owner' of the early `core' implementation and it would have
been possible to give individual MDAs greater feeling of control and, therefore, ownership, over


                                                     - 18 -

the form of their `bolt on' usage as subsequent phases unfolded. It would also have helped to
establish a more collegiate way of working between the center and MDAs based upon recognition
of each others needs and an equal voice in determining the course of financial management
development.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower did not send any assessment of the project to the Bank

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following
Manga Kuoh, Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist, Team Leader.
Smile Kwawukme, Public Sector Specialist.
Peter Brooke, Consultant, Representing DFID.
Daryoush Kianpour, Senior Information Officer.
Kofi Awanyo and Mbuba Mbungu, Senior Procurement Specialists.
Fred Yankey, Financial Management Specialist.

B. Disconnect between ICR ratings and recent PSRs ratings
It appears that recent PSR ratings sought to reflect the major efforts that has been made by all
parties over the last semesters and their encouraging initial results, especially regarding the
implementation progress. However, this relatively recent evolution in Project performance cannot
compensate for the weaknesses signaled in the Project design or the shortfalls in terms of
deliveries and outcome expected at appraisal.




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Budget Preparation:                                                      1. Budget Preparation

Preparation more organized through                                          Budget preparation is more organized and
improved data base and improved link-up                                     based on strategic planning. However, the
between planning and budgetary outlays                                      MTEF lost credibility after two years of
within a specified macroeconomic                                            implementation due cashflow problems.
framework.                                                                  Since 2002 with prudent macroeconomic
                                                                            management and favorable international
                                                                            commodity prizes, MDAs are beginning to
                                                                            have faith in the MTEF process.

Improved budgeting in the MDAs leading to                                   The budgeting process in MDAs has
greater ownership and enhanced                                              improved
accountability.
                                                                            2. Budget Implementation
2. Budget Implementation:

Improved record of the MDAs to spend within                                 The government has introduced a
their budgetary allocations.                                                commitment control system for MDAs
                                                                            resulting in MDAs spending within their
                                                                            budgetary allocations

Improved monitoring, over time, of budget                                   Due to the introduction of the commitment
implementation on the basis of commitments                                  control system, there is an improved
& the use of computerized variance analysis                                 monitoring of budget implementation.
of actual expenditures and budgetary outlays.

Comprehensive and timely information                                        There is yet to be a comprehensive and
available to the public on the fiscal position,                             timely information to the public on the fiscal
enabling greater transparency &                                             position.
accountability of the Government.

3. Accounting System:                                                       3. Accounting System

A changed and complete base for the public                                  A new chart of account has been developed
accounts of Ghana.                                                          and is now being utilized

Complete, timely, and reliable financial                                    This objective had not been achieved at
information to assist MDAs in their internal                                Project completion. The progressive rolling
management and for the public.                                              out of the BPEMS should make it effective in
                                                                            the beginning of 2005.



4. Cash Management System:                                                  4. Cash Management System

Greater efficiency of cash management                                       Improvement in cash management has
through reduced usage of short-term                                         resulted from a more rigorous traditional
high-interest debt to finance GoG cash                                      system developed with the assistance of the
shortages, and the timely deposit of funds                                  IMF and which is not based on the BPEMS.
into the Consolidated Fund.                                                 This represent a good development on which
                                                                            the Government will be able to capitalized
                                                                            once the BPEMS becomes effective and data
                                                                            from different sources can be aggregated
                                                                            rapidly to provide an accurate consolidated
                                                                            cash position.

5. Aid and Debt Management System:                                          5. Aid and Debt Management System:

Timely debt service payments on GoG                                         There has been improvement in terms of
external debt.                                                              timely external debt service payments




                                                         - 20 -

6. Revenue System:                                                         6. Revenue System:

Tracking of assessments, collections, and                                  Payment of collections is actively monitored
the crediting of the collections into the                                  to ensure expeditious transfers into the
Consolidated Fund.                                                         Central Bank account. The confirmed
                                                                           deposits in the Consolidated Accounts form
                                                                           the basis for determining the percentage of
                                                                           retention of part of revenue for the
                                                                           administration of the revenue agencies.

Reduction of lags in collection and deposits.                              The time lag has reduced considerably and it
                                                                           is still being worked on. Under the present
                                                                           GCMS/GCNET system, participating Banks
                                                                           are allowed 2 working days and up to 10:00
                                                                           am of the third day to transfer all deposits. At
                                                                           the agency level, lodgement of tax revenue is
                                                                           done on a daily basis and the commercial
                                                                           banks have up to one week to effect transfer
                                                                           to the Central Bank accounts in the
                                                                           respective regional branches.

Reduced variance, over time, between                                       Based upon the flash reports submitted by
quarterly revenue forecasts and actual                                     the agencies to the RAGB on monthly basis,
collections.                                                               due guidance is provided to the mode of
                                                                           reducing negative variances. As a result the
                                                                           negative variances has disappeared and
                                                                           actual collection are exceeding forecasts.



Receipt of dividends from parastatals on                                   The Non-Tax Revenue Division of the
timely basis.                                                              Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
                                                                           budgets on annual basis for individual as well
                                                                           internally generated revenue from equity
                                                                           ventures, state and parastatal agencies. This
                                                                           is effectively monitored to ensure timely
                                                                           payment.

7. Audit System:                                                           7. Audit System

An audit service capable of performing                                     The audit service is yet to perform reliable
reliable financial audits.                                                 financial audits on its own.



Implementation of procedures and sanctions                                 Audits are prepared in arrears and often
when problems are identified in audit reports.                             sanctions are not carried out
Internal audits being performed continually                                While internal audits are being carried out
providing feedback to the heads of MDAs for                                from time to time in selected MDAs they are
more effective management.                                                 not systematically conducted yet.

8. Procurement System                                                      8. Procurement System

Competitive tendering and contracting                                      Competitive tendering and contracting
procedures are specified and followed                                      procedures are specified in the new
(includes standardization of procurement                                   procurement law. The law is meant to
across Government).                                                        standardize procurement across government.
                                                                           However, implementation of the law is yet to
                                                                           begin.

Building up of database on costs of procured                               Since the new procurement law was given
items.                                                                     Presidential assent on December 31, 2003
                                                                           and is yet to be implemented, no database on
                                                                           costs of procured items have been built.


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate




                                                        - 21 -

1. Budget Preparation                                       1. Budget Preparation
Formulation of the annual budget within a                   The framework for the formulation of an
complete rolling MTEF                                       annual budget to be prepared within a
                                                            complete rolling MTEF is in place
A comprehensive, broad based budget (that                   The framework for a comprehensive budget
includes all project aid financed receipts and              has been established but partially
expenditures)                                               implemented
Computerized budget preparation process                     The budget preparation process is
                                                            computerized using the ACTIVATE software


Printed budget document for Parliament                      Printed budget document are sent to
containing MTEF and project aid financed                    Parliament containing MTEF and project aid
expenditures                                                financed expenditures
Budget Guidelines which are discussed and                   Budget Guidelines are discussed and
approved by the Cabinet                                     approved by Cabinet


2. Budget Implementation                                    2. Budget Implementation
Timely and reliable budgetary reports for
management in accordance with the FAR
and FAD
CAGD quarterly accounts includes all                        CAGD prepares quarterly accounts but does
expenditures and receipts, including all aid                not include all aid and is not based on data
                                                            generated by the BPEMS yet.


Comprehensive quarterly accounts are                        Not available yet
available on both cash and commitment basis
for the narrow budget
Comprehensive quarterly accounts are                        Not available yet
available on both cash and commitment basis
for the broad budget
Quarterly accounts of receipts and                          Not available yet
expenditures, with the latter available by
Region and by category of expenditure


3. Accounting sub-system                                    3. Accounting sub-system
A uniform Chart of Accounts                                 A uniform chart of accounts has been put in
                                                            place


Each MDA implements an effective financial                  Each MDA adheres to the commitment
management system for planning, allocation,                 control system instituted by the Ministry of
utilization, and accounting of resources                    Finance and Economic Planning


Complete Consolidated Public Accounts of                    CAGD prepares a consolidated Public
GoG showing GoG assets/liabilities and all                  Accounts indicating GoG assets/liabilities
revenue/expenditures                                        and all revenues/expenditures


Issuance of monthly and yearly financial                    Monthly and yearly financial reports are been
reports                                                     issued


Revision of FAR and FAD                                     Both FAD and FAR revised


4. Aid and Debt Management Sub-system                       4. Aid and Debt Management Sub-system

Production of annual/biannual reports on                    Annual reports are prepared on public debt
public debt, both domestic and foreign, with                (both public and domestic) with respect to its
respect to its stock, term structure,                       stock, term structure, amortization and
amortization, and interest payment                          interest payment


Production of annual reports on BOG                         Annual reports are produced on BOG




                                                  - 22 -

guarantees on external loans obtained by                                       guarantees on external loans obtained by
parastatals and private sector agencies                                        parastatals and private sector agencies


Production of annual reports on external aid                                   Annual reports are prepared on external aids
in kind                                                                        in kind but the reports are not comprehensive
                                                                               enough

1End of project

Output Indicator                                      Latest Estimate
5. Revenue Sub-System
·         Rational and coherent structure for tax    A Revenue Agencies Governing Board was
administration                                       established for a rational and coherent structure for
                                                     tax administration.
·         Strategy for a unique and common           A system of taxpayer identification numbering is
Taxpayer Identification Number                       being implemented
·         Full Implementation of TIN                 TIN is being implemented fully
·         Computerized system for direct taxes       Pending
·         Implementation of a new indirect tax       A new indirect tax (Value Added Tax ) was
including its computerization                        introduced in 1999. The VAT computerization
                                                     program is ongoing.
·         Full implementation of system for customs A computerized system (GCMS/GCNet) too off in
data management                                      May 2003
·         Monthly and annual revenue reports from    Agencies submit monthly and annual performance
each agency                                          reports to RAGB. This started in September 2001
·         Reliable quarterly forecasts of revenues   Reliable quarterly forecasts in place since 2001
·         Internal audit reports that provide        Annual internal audit reports submitted to
transparency of revenue collection function          management of agencies and the RAGB for
                                                     information
6. Audit Sub-System
·         Standards for Internal and External Audit   An audit Manual has been prepared together with
                                                     related guidelines and a Quality Control manual.
·         A start on value-for-money audit
·         Computer access to accounting system and 18 staff have been trained specifically in computer
budget implementation system                         audit techniques. However, the achievement of this
                                                     output has been hampered by the delays in the
                                                     implementation of BPEMS.
·         Regulations for contracting audit firms to A written internal operational procedures of the OAG
perform audits                                       for contracting audit firms in existence.
·         Regulations regarding follow-up systems forThese regulations follow-up systems are provided for
audit recommendations                                in the new Audit Act which is currently before the
                                                     National Parliament
·         Annual audit plans for each year           A plan has been developed based on risk assessment
                                                     principles
·         Annual assessments of staff performance    Not yet effective
·         Internal audits which help management      A new internal audit legislation has been approved by
better utilize resources                             Parliament but not yet operational.
7. Procurement
·         Study on the review of public procurement   Review of public procurement regulations and
regulations and practices                             practices undertaken. A new Public Procurement
                                                      Law passed.




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Budget preparation (MTEF only)                            0.36             0.76           211.1
B. Budget &Public Expenditure Management (BPEMS)            13.24           19.88           150.15
C. Cash Management                                           0.49             0.36           73.47
D. Debt Management                                           0.40             0.19            47.5
E. Revenue management                                        9.41             0.95           10.09
F. Audit                                                     2.19             2.56          116.89
G. Procurement                                               0.33             0.36          109.09
H. Project Management                                        1.58             1.98          125.32


Total Baseline Cost                                         28.00           27.04
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.81
                        Total Project Costs                 30.81           27.04
                  Total Financing Required                  30.81           27.04


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                          0.00            1314.70       200.00        122.20       1636.90
                                  (0.00)         (1183.20)     (180.00)        (0.00)      (1363.20)
2. Goods                        11643.50          303.30        200.00        1850.30      13997.10
                               (11643.50)         (273.00)     (180.00)        (0.00)     (12096.50)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00       5069.60        2331.20      7400.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (5069.60)       (0.00)      (5069.60)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00       2420.00        2435.70      4855.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2420.00)       (0.00)      (2420.00)
5. Recurrent Expenditures         0.00              0.00         0.00         2920.20      2920.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                        11643.50          1618.00      7889.60        9659.60      30810.70
                               (11643.50)        (1456.20)     (7849.60)       (0.00)     (20949.30)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                          0.00             1.43          0.00          0.00         1.43
                                  (0.00)           (0.93)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.93)


                                                - 24 -

   2. Goods                                14.28              0.63              0.00             0.00              14.91
                                          (9.60)             (0.46)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (10.06)
   3. Services                             4.25               0.00              3.79             0.00              8.04
                                          (13.85)            (1.39)            (3.79)           (0.00)           (19.03)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Recurrent Expenditures               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                                18.53              2.06              3.79             0.00              24.38
                                          (23.45)            (2.78)            (3.79)           (0.00)           (30.02)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
      project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.
A. Budget preparation                                    4.60                     0.18       4.58                         99.6
(MTEF only)
B. Budget &Public             11.95                                 15.28         4.60                 127.9
Expenditure Management
(BPEMS)
C. Cash Management             0.44                                  0.28         0.08                  63.6
D. Debt Management             0.39                                  0.16         0.03                  41.0
E. Revenue management          5.10                                  0.55         0.40                  10.8
F. Audit                       0.01                      5.80        0.00                    2.56       0.0               44.1
G. Procurement                 0.12                                  0.30         0.06                 250.0
H. Project Management          1.49                                  1.84         0.14                 123.5


   Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Appraisal estimates in US $ 000's) in IDA Fiscal
   Year

                            1997             1998            1999             2000           2001              2002           2003
Appraisal  Annual           4,332.4          5,886.6         4,740.3          2,735.6        3,254.0
Estimate
           Cumulative       4.332.4          10,219.1        14,959.4         17,695.0       20,949.0
    Actual Annual           2,217,752.99     377,146.00      1,340,939.53     2,139,217.72   1,502,044.72      7,667,343.71   3,163,319
           Cumulative       2,217,752.99     2,594,898.99    3,935,838.52    6,075,056.24    7,577,100.96     15,244,         18,407,76
                                                                                                              444.67




                                                          - 25 -

AUDIT OF PUFMARP ACCOUNTS

Audit     Expected    Actual      Issues raised               Actions taken
Year      Submission  Submission
          Date        Date
1997/98   June 1999   June 1999   No substantive issue        NIL
1999      June 2000   June 2000   No substantive issue        NIL
2000      June 2001   June 2001   No substantive issue        NIL
2001      June 2002   June 2002   No substantive issue        NIL
2002      June 2003   July 2003   Incomplete assets register  Register is being updated to
                                                              include all equipment
                                                              deployed to all MDAs




                                 - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              05/17/1997               4    SR. TASK TEAM ASST. (1);         S               S
                                            SR. INFO. OFFICER (1); SR.
                                            TRAINING OFFICER (1);
                                            TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              11/14/1997               2    SR. INFO. OFFICER (1); TASK      S               S
                                            TEAM LEADER (1)
              04/25/1998               4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            SENIOR I.T. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1); PROJECT
                                            ACCOUNTING (1)
              09/21/1998               6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (3); INFO TECH SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              12/13/2000               1    TTL (1)                          U               S
              12/13/2000               2    TTL (1); GOVERNANCE              U               S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              05/31/2001               3    TTL (1); IT-SPECIALIST (1);      U               S
                                            GOVERNANCE SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              08/15/2001               2    TEAMLEADER (1);                  U               S
                                            GOVERNANCE SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              10/01/2001               3    TL (1); TEAM (2)                 U               S
              02/01/2002               3    TTL (1); PSM SPECIALIST (2)      S               S
              04/23/2002               3    TTL (1); PROJECT OFFICER         S               S
                                            (1); PUBLIC SECTOR (1)
              06/15/2002               2    TTL (1); GOVERNANCE              S               S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              10/18/2002               4    TTL (1); TASKTEAM (1);           S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
              01/27/2003               3    TTL (1); IT SPECIALIST (1);      S               S
                                            IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1)
              07/05/2003               3    TTL (1); IT; SITE VISIT IN       S               S
                                            JUNE (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                            SUPPORT (1)


 ICR
              12/13/2003               7     1 TTL, F M SPECIALIST           U               U
                                             (1), PROCUREMENT (2),
                                             IT SPECIALIST (1),



                                             - 28 -

                                            PUBLIC FIN. MGT.
                                            SPECILAIST (1), PSM
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                        106.65                         341.25
  ICR
  Total                                                             525.65




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1.  Public Financial; Management Technical Assistance Project, Memorandum and Recommendation
     to the President. October 10, 1996
 2.  FIMTAP, Technical Annex, October 10, 1996
 3.  Independent Review Report of BPEMS, 2002
 4.  FIMTAP, Mid-term review report, July 1999
 5.  Financial Administration Act (Act # 654, 2003)
 6.  Government of Ghana, BPEMS Implementation, Information System and Technology Strategy
     (Version 3), November 2003
 7.  FIMTAP, Various supervision reports
 8.  Public Procurement Act (Act # 663, 2003)
 9.  Panel Report. FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment




                                              - 32 -

- 33 -

