Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6977-GH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OCTOBER 10, 1996
Macroeconomics Group 4
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = 1680 Cedis (September, 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMU         Aid and Debt Management Unit
AMIS         Aid Management Information System
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Database
BoG         Bank of Ghana
BPEMS        Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
CEPS         Customs, Excise, and Preventive Services
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CAGD        Controller & Accountant General's Department
CPAR         Countrv Procurement Assessment Report
CS-DRMS   Commonwealth Secretariat's Debt Recording and
Management System
EMS         Economic Management Support Project
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
EU           European Union
FAD          Financial Administration Decree
FAR          Financial Administration Regulations
FIMTAP       Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
FINSAC      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GoG          Govemment of Ghana
ICB          Intemational Competitive Bidding
IPPD         Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database
IRS         Internal Revenue Service
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MDA          Ministries, Departments, and Agencies
MTEF         Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NaTCAP       National Technical Cooperation and Assessment Program
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NDPC        National Development Planning Commission
NRS          National Revenue Secretariat
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PSAC         Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PUFMARP   Public Financial Management Reform Program
SAIS        Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project
VAT          Value-Added Tax



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE PROJECT                                                             1
A. Background                                                           I
B. Detailed Project Description                                         I
Budget Preparation Sub-System                                    2
Problem                                                  2
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             4
Budget Implementation Sub-system                                 5
Problem                                                  5
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             5
Accounting Sub-System                                            5
Problem                                                  5
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             6
Cash Management Sub-System                                       6
Problem                                                  6
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             7
Aid and Debt Management Sub-System                               7
Problem                                                  7
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             8
Revenue Management Sub-System                                    8
Internal Revenue                                              8
Problem                                                  8
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             8
Customs, Excise, and Preventive Services                      9
Problem                                                  9
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             9
Indirect Tax Reforms                                          9
Problem                                                  9
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             9
National Revenue Secretariat                                  10
Problem                                                   10
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities              11
Audit Sub-System                                                 11
Problem                                                   11
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities              11
Procurement Sub-System                                           12
Problem                                                   12



ii
Proposed Component Objectives and Activities             12
Information Technology Strategy                                 12
Application Software                                     13
Hardware                                                 1 3
Human Resource Development                                      13
Legal Framework Revision                                        14
Development of Manuals                                          14
Communications Strategy                                         15
Inception Workshops                                      15
PUFMARP Newsletter                                       15
Project Management                                              15
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                   16
II.    PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                              17
A. Project Implementation                                              17
Steering Committee                                              17
PUFMARP Implementation Team                                     17
B. Bank Role in Project Implementation                                 18
C. Implementation Schedules                                            18
D. Project Financing and Costs                                         19
Project Financing                                               19
Project Costs                                                   19
E. Procurement Arrangements                                            20
Procurement of Goods                                            20
Procurement of Consulting Services                              21
Procurement of Civil Works                                      21
Prior Review                                                    21
F. Disbursement Plan                                                   21
G. Accounts, Audit, and Reporting                                      21
Annexes
A. Performance Indicators                                              22
B. Schedule of Project Activities                                      26
C. Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for the
Design and Implementation of BPEMS                                 31



1.     THE PROJECT
A.    Background
I .    Since the start of the ERP, the Government of Ghana (GoG) has, under vanrous donor-
funded programs, sought to improve its financial management. Under the Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support Project (SAIS)' which accompanied and complemented the Bank's first
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I), progress was made in, among other areas, external debt
management, tax administration, and policy analysis. The Economic Management Support
Project (EMS), which was approved by the Board in 1991, further sought improvements in
budgeting, auditing, expenditure reporting, and tax administration. In particular, it supported the
introduction of an Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database (IPPD) which linked personnel
information to payroll and allowed for the automated processing of the Government payroll and
analysis of personnel information. The Debt Recording and Management System (DRMS),
developed by the Commonwealth Secretariat, was installed and operationalized in the Aid and Debt
Management Unit (ADMU) of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Ghana (BoG), and the
Controller and Accountant-General's Department (CAGD). Customs administration was improved
through the introduction of the Automated System for Customs Database (ASYCUDA) which was
extended to the primary ports. The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC) has addressed
institutional strengthening of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICA) and the banking sector
by the introduction of accounting standards through the Ghana Accounting Standards Board and of
new legislation improving financial reporting supervision on the part of the BoG. It has also
supported a diagnostic study of the Audit Service which has come up with recommendations on
enhancing the capabilities of the Audit Service. However, these efforts were of a piece-meal nature
and were not guided by the requirements of an integrated financial management system.
2.     The Government is now committed to implanting an integrated financial management
system in the country. The motivation for this is from three sources. First, better financial
management is critical to effective macroeconomic management and outcomes, particularly in an
era of uncertain donor flows. Second, with Ghana adopting a democratic government since 1992,
higher levels of accountability are perceived as critical to consolidating and sustaining the
democratic process. The 1992 Constitution has set the framework for greater participation of
citizens in society and has specifically defined the roles and responsibilities of the judicial,
legislative and executive arms of Government to create the basis for maintaining the necessary set
of checks and balances essential to a democratic society. Third, effective financial management,
particularly at the decentralized local level, is a pre-condition to the implementation of the
Government's decentralization program which is embedded in the Constitution.
B.    Detailed Project Description
3.    The Project will develop an integrated public financial management system in Ghana. This
is an inter-related set of sub-systems which plans, processes, and reports upon financial resources,
covers a broad spectrum of financial management areas, and is computer-based. The principal
factor which "integrates" the system is a common, reliable, unified database to, and from which, all
financial data flows and which is shared by all the financial users.
1   Approved in 1987 and closed in 1993.



2
4.     The Project will support the development of eight critical components or sub-systems (the
shaded boxes in Chart 1): (i) the budget preparation sub-system; (ii) the budget implementation
sub-system; (iii) the accounting sub-system; (iv) the cash management sub-system; (v) the aid and
debt management sub-system; (vi) the revenue sub-system; (vii) the procurement sub-system; and
(viii) the auditing sub-system. Even though these eight components are functionally different, the
first three components are logically united in their operations and the Project seeks to develop them
as such. Thus, a comprehensive Budget and Public Expenditure Management System (BPEMS)
wvill be developed which will integrate in a single common system the information systems for
budget preparation, budget implementation, and accounting. The following sections provide a
description of the individual components of the Project.
Budget Preparation Sub-System
5.     Problem. The current process of budget preparation has several weaknesses, some of
which were identified by the 1993 PER. These weaknesses have generally led to a lack of
ownership of the budget by the sector ministries and has undermined the utility of the budget as an
instrument for achieving national priorities and for managing the financial resources of the
government.
6.     Some of the main weaknesses in budget preparation are: (a) preparation of the recurrent
budget on an incremental basis, i.e. by adding a certain percentage (based, for instance, on
inflation) to the previous year's estimates of expenditures, without reviewing whether the particular
activities are in line with government priorities or whether they are being implemented in the most
cost-effective manner; (b) absence of a medium-term outlook, or a lack of forward planning, of the
recurrent budget such that forward estimates of the recurrent costs of current policies and
programs are not developed, (c) lack of critical review of the government's own priorities in the
preparation of the development budget, and the absence of the estimation of its recurrent cost
implications and whether sufficient funds will be available to cover these recurrent costs; and (d)
lack of adequate budget guidance to the ministries, including the lack of hard expenditure ceilings
in the budget guidelines reflecting the Government's expenditure priorities.
7.     The above weaknesses in the budgeting process result in an inappropriate allocation of
resources. The need for restructuring of public expenditures is particularly acute now because (a) a
successful inflation management strategy is critically dependent on prudent public expenditure
management; (b) strategies for economic reform and poverty alleviation (being developed by the
Government will) require changes in the budget, both inter- and intra-sectorally; and (c) scope for
additional revenue generation is limited and the future of donor flows increasingly uncertain.
Hence, for an accelerated growth strategy, the efficiency of public expenditures is critical. 2
2   In the short-term, such efforts may be constrained by the large size of wage and wage-related
expenditures (the restructuring of which will need to await the outcome of the National Institutional
Renewal Program-NIRP) and the interest burden.



|                           ~~~~~~Chart 1: Ghana -Functional View of Public Financial Management 
Function         Bftnk of     Debt         NDPC        Ministry of Finance                   C6AG                     Minstries, Departrnents Revenue Collection   Paylgg/gecv.  Audit Servlce
Ghana   anaaernent                Budget ProP., Exec., Mfmt  Cash Managem nt, Treasury, Accountin        and Agencies    NRS, IRS, VAT Sectt, cEPS    Cnks
Macro                                                                                                                       LEGEND    *- Arrows show Informatlornfows. FUtN lstndlc te
Economic              Systems fbr Macro-Economic Forecasting                                                                                   M ctroric fows, dotted nes, palW basd flws
Forecasting
Aorecasting                                                    1                                                                 Focus Areas for the Tectscail Assistance Project
Mahcro-Ecoromc Frmnwodrk
"ita an                      hlla7Econorrc Frafwork                                                             MDAs                 Tax & CustomsI   |
pr vics                                                                                                      | SY.  for Expend]         Systems        I                     A
wndcurrnt                                                                                                                              (Policy)_F__ __L   Estimaton  (Foe*ack
"W            F    ~         - Bu`dge Guike5ss                               Budget GOkies                                                                                  from
Aurt
Budget                                        Systems for Budge t                        Budtg Expew-    irop.sais
Preparation  *                "tMD"- ation                                                                                                               I
-            BaSe Me data                                                  Rov r Estknates                                        elvd Ft
an
Pro-jcds                                                                                       .. .. .
D vknt rwrwt                                     Budget AppoPrbtkns
...                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Approv d  t MOAs -                                            --.W
..                     .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noattocbn to Lhoe A9 ncbes \  xetr 
Budget                                               systems                 Budget Appr.  Core Government               Execution Syst.
Execution,                                                for                   & Tr            Accounting          ____,_P___
Accounting                                              Budge                      nttrs           System                         _R_e __
and Fiscal      me of                              Impentsttion                                                                   on an  W      ank R*conc lIaton
Reporting   mirwndsw                                                                                                                                                      aig
!rt  an PuoPc DetA                S,stems for lWontlorhng  4   ity rca Data an Projets
tmnvstmntr Prjol s   *                                                   of hwvo  nwt Proi|                            Bank
i~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.C  W tctat an projsc 1s                                                                        ||Systtms   *4
Procurement
Cash                      Cash Reiements             _.__|                           Ca            ._c ash _Exp_nd                             __F__  _
Management
Borwg Req  i kemuvl al 
Debt             Aid & Debt Managmen
Management P Lm                                        D o S rvic Pnts/La n r cs'
|Tax & Custorns
Revenue                                                                                                                                         Administration
Management                                                                                                                                      |        stems
ISy"    fo§r |                         Personnel iPayroll
Personnel                                                PI:
Management                    Auitlod posts           Management                Post cortro1
Audit                                                                                      .              .            . --
kti to ALJ      t 5t emo 



4
8.     Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The basic objective of this component
is to improve the planning and budgeting of public expenditures and thus contribute to
strengthened fiscal policy formulation and implementation. For this component, the Project will
focus on the following sets of issues:
(a)      instituting a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as part of the normal
budgetary process. This would involve (i) formulating program categories for
planning, budgeting and accounting; (ii) integrating of aid financed projects and
programs; (iii) preparing expenditure program profiles for each MDA showing the
object-wise outlays; (iv) ensuring that the forecasts are limited to current or existing
policies; (v) specifying the price basis; (vi) formulating a budget calendar, indicating
the preparation, review, and consolidation of these rolling forecasts; (vii) specifying the
linkages between the forecasts and the annual budget; and (viii) preparing a computer
software for the purpose. The coverage of the MTEF would be over both the recurrent
and the development budget. This would complement the BPEMS system and would be
fully integrated with it.
Several elements of an MTEF already exist in Ghana. For instance, an aggregative
three-year expenditure and revenue framework already exists under the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1995-97 (which will be updated in 1996). Medium-term
expenditure programming at the sectoral level either exists or is being developed in
three key sectors (Roads & Highways, Health, and Basic Education) in the context of
their sector investment programs which are being supported by the Bank. In addition, a
rolling three-year Public Investment Program has been prepared by the Government for
some years.
(b)      improvements in the formulation of the annual budget. These improvements would
include (i) preparation of a model budget circular indicating the possible expenditure
ceilings within which MDA budgets have to be formulated; (ii) development of a
software for the Budget Division that will facilitate budget preparation; (iii) preparation
and installation of the budget software in the MDAs; (iv) arrangements for the eventual
electronic transmission of budget proposals from MDAs to the Budget Division of the
Ministry of Finance; and (v) program for consolidation and preparation of draft
budgets.
The budget software referred to above would enable the use of the historical, baseline,
and ceiling data for budgeting purposes, facilitate the iterative process of budget
submission, consolidation, revision, and finalization, provide for the tracking of the
budget process from initial proposal to Parliamentary approval and printing, produce a
master copy in a form suitable for presentation to Parliament and subsequent printing.
It will also permit the development of implications of rolling expenditure plans and
provide program profiles requiring special attention. This system will be an integral
part of the BPEMS referred to above.
(c)      the training of a core group of budget and finance staff from the Ministry of Finance,
the NDPC, and the MDAs in the preparation of an MTEF and the annual budget, and
in the use of the information systems in its preparation.



5
Budget Implementation Sub-System
9.    Problem. The key problem identified in this area relates to deficient expenditure
monitoring and control systems. The lack of timely, accurate, and current information on budget
allocations, comnmitments and actual expenditures seriously undermines the Government's capacity
for fiscal management, leading to an inefficient allocation of resources and obscuring public
accountability. Even though the 1979 Financial Administration Decree (FAD) and the
corresponding Financial Administration Regulations (FAR) set out the basic principles of financial
reporting, monitoring, and control, these are often not adhered to. For instance, commitments are
irregularly recorded and reported by the ministries. In the absence of such records, expenditure
monitoring is resorted to on the basis of 'checks cleared' by the BoG or, as more recently, 'checks
issued' by the CAGD. Because of delays inherent in each step of payment processing, the Ministry
of Finance is able to monitor these expenditures only with considerable time lags undermining
expenditure monitoring and control, and necessitating the imposition of across-the-board cuts
towards the end of the year to maintain aggregate fiscal discipline. Undue delays in reporting make
it difficult to promptly close and prepare the financial accounts of the Government.
10.   Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The basic objective of this component
is to ensure an orderly and smooth implementation of the budget, while providing adequate
flexibility to the MDAs to manage their programs and projects, as well as to enable the Ministry
of Finance to maintain oversight that is in conformity with the requirements of macroeconomic
stabilization. This will be developed through the following sets of activities under the Project.
(a)   the design and implementation of a Budget Classification System which is consistent with
the Chart of Accounts so as to permit the reporting of expenditures by the same codes as in
the budget.
(b)   the functional design of systems, processes, and procedures for expenditure controls. This
will involve all aspects of expenditure control prior to making payment authorizations,
such as checking for budget appropriations, prior commitments, verification for receipt of
goods and services, as well as the development of reporting formats, necessary laws and
regulations, and operating manuals.
(c)   the implementation of a computerized system (including software) to support the above
functional design. This system would be capable of providing timely, reliable, and up-to-
date information on budget allocations, commitments, and actual expenditures, and would
enable the production of periodic financial reports so as to permit monitoring and
management of the actual expenditures by individual spending ministries and by CAGD.
This system will be fully integrated with the Accounting Sub-System (see paras I 1-12
below) and the software for the Budget Division mentioned above.
(d)   the training of budget, finance, and treasury staff in the MDAs in budget implementation.
Accounting Sub-System
11.   Problem. The main problems identified in the accounting sub-system relate to (a) the lack
of a unified Chart of Accounts; (b) ignorance, non-compliance with, and obsolescence of elements
of the 1979 FAD and the 1979 FAR; and (c) the lack of an adequate cadre of trained, qualified
accounting staff in the line ministries as well as in the CAGD. These problems, in conjunction



6
with those identified in budget implementation, were the prime reasons why the Consolidated
Accounts of the Central Government were not produced annually over 1983-92 even though the
annual submission of these is required by the FAD. It is only since 1993 that these accounts have
been prepared annually.
12.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The objectives of the accounting sub-
system are to (i) promote a system of accounting that shows the effective utilization of the
financial resources of the country; (ii) provide a window to the public to ascertain the financial
status of the Government; and (iii) serve as a major instrument in the formulation and
implementation of Government policies. The project would seek to implant a modem accounting
sub-system which classifies, records and analyses in a timely, reliable, and standard manner all
government financial transactions. This sub-system would provide all basic financial transaction
data and reports to all other sub-systems and will form the core of the financial management
system being envisaged. Key activities would include:
(a)    formulation of a comprehensive Chart of Accounts covering receipts, expenditures, and
borrowing. The Chart of Accounts would be coded, reflect the function, MDA, program,
and items of expenditure, reflect the needs of each MDA, facilitate a link-up with the
development plan, and a link-up with the National Income Accounts.
(b)   introduction of a common General Ledger System;
(c)    reporting by Treasuries and consolidation of Treasury Reports by CAGD;
(d)    revised formulation of annual operating statements to be provided by the CAGD;
(e)    specification of Accounting Standards for Government. This would require the
introduction of new regulations for government-wide accounting;
(f)    eventual electronic link-up with the payroll and pension systems;
(g)   installation of an effective payments system including electronic payments where possible;
(h)   the training of government accounting staff in the new system.
Cash Management Sub-System
13.    Problem. Organized cash management does not exist in Ghana as is evidenced by the
following problems: (a) there is no cash flow plan that readily identifies and matches the flow of
revenues with those of disbursements, and provides forward estimates so as to form the basis for
planning the Government's borrowing requirements. As a result, the BoG open market sales of
treasury bills do not accurately reflect the liquidity position of the Government; (b) there is lack of
a system for prompt reporting of transactions and balances of the Consolidated Fund to which all
revenues are to be deposited and from which all disbursements are to be made; (c) there is a large
float of revenues constantly in the system reflecting the lags in the transfer to the BoG of, for
instance, revenues collected by the local offices of the revenue agencies and deposited with the
local commercial banks. While these are cash assets of the Government, they are not represented
as such as they are captured only when the revenues are transferred into the Consolidated Fund at



7
the BoG; and (d) there is no integration between the preparation and execution of the budget, and
the determination of the cash requirements of the Government.
14.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The objective of the cash management
component is to achieve an efficient provision of the cash resources of the Government while
voiding the immobilization of resources and minimizing the costs of borrowing. This will be
achieved through the introduction of a modem cash management system which will estimate,
project, monitor, and manage revenue inflows and expenditure outflows. Key activities under the
Project would include:
(a)    preparation and submission of cash needs by MDAs;
(b)    review by the Ministry of Finance of the above cash forecasts and linking them with
resource flow forecasts;
(c)    coordination of the releases made by the Ministry of Finance, MDAs, CAGD, and BoG;
(d)    determining public sector borrowing requirements on the basis of the cash flows;
(e)   the automation of the cash management system to permit real-time reconciliation between
the CAGD, the Bank of Ghana, and the Budget Division of the Ministry of Finance;
(f)   the development of a policy for the management of the cash assets including the rules
governing BoG treatment of the Consolidated Account and the financial arrangement
between the Government and the commercial banks on fees and interest payments.
Aid and Debt Management Sub-System
15.    Problem. The problems with respect to Ghana's debt management-both external and
domestic-are pnrmanrly two: (i) A single set of accounts on the country's external debt does not
exist. The ADMU of the Ministry of Finance is the unit charged, in principle, with the
responsibility of recording, monitoring, and projecting data on external debt, and authorizing
disbursements. Through Bank assistance under SAIS and EMS, the ADMU operationalized the
CS-DRMS. The data coverage of this system is still incomplete. In particular, information on
Government guarantees on external debt of parastatals and private agencies is not captured. As a
result, knowledge of the GoG's external current (and potential) indebtedness is incomplete. This is
a potentially problematic situation particularly vis-a-vis the timely payment of Ghana's external
debt obligations; and (ii) The recording and management of domestic debt remains a BoG
operation with no linkage with the ADMU. No database exists which captures government
liabilities.3
The same is true on the asset side of the Government's balance sheet (i.e. net lending by the
Government), too. This is, however, being addressed under a separate Bank project, the
Privatization and Public Enterprise Development Technical Assistance Project II, which is helping
the development of a database to capture information on Government assets-loans to parastatals
and private organizations.



8
16.   Proposed Project Goals and Activities. The objective of this component is to strengthen
the management of the acquisition, servicing, and retirement ofpublic debt. Key activities would
include:
(a)   the integration of the external debt database between the ADMU, the BoG, and the CAGD
(including the establishment of an electronic link-up) so as to provide a single complete
status of Ghana's external debt. This is an activity in an advanced stage of completion.
(b)   the full operationalization of an Aid (external loans and grants) Management Information
System (AMIS), currently under development;
(c)   the integration of information on technical cooperation, currently incorporated in the
system of the National Technical Cooperation and Assistance Program (NaTCAP), with
AMIS;4
(d)   the strengthening of ADMU as the focal point for external debt data;
(e)   the training of staff from the ADMU in areas such debt portfolio analysis, negotiation
skills, international finance, budgeting, and information technology related to their
operational work.
Revenue Management Sub-System
17.   The objective of the reformns in revenue management is to promote systems of
administratiuon aimed at achieving greater taxpayer compliance and convenience, and to
increase the efficiency of revenue collection, reporting, andforecasting. The problems and
proposed reforms in each of the revenue sub-components is provided below:
Internal Revenue
18.   Problem. Significant strides have been made during the ERP in the collection of direct
taxes by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Yet greater efficiency gains can be made and are
increasingly important given the paucity of additional new sources of revenues. The following
weaknesses have been identified in internal revenue: (a) the lack of a unique (and common to other
tax agencies) tax identification number which would permit greater inter-agency collaboration and
enable higher revenue collection. Currently, taxpayers are able to change districts freely and
thereby avoid paying taxes or to have several sources of income but only declare income from one
source; (b) the lack of adequate computer facilities which would allow for the timely integration of
data from IRS offices across the country, and its expeditious deposit onto the Consolidated
Account at the BoG; (c) weak capacity, particularly in the areas of tax audit, tax examination, and
records management.
19.   Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The primary objective of the
investments in the IRS would be to improve taxpayer compliance and to increase the efficiency of
revenue forecasting, collection, and reporting by the IRS. To that end, the Project would support
the following activities:
4   The responsibility for NaTCAP has been transferred from the NaTCAP Secretariat to ADMU.



9
(a)   the development and introduction of a unique and common Taxpayer Identification
Number (TIN);
(b)   the development of a computer-based system for tax assessment, collection, reporting,
follow-up, and analysis;
(c)   the enhancement of tax audit, tax examination, records management capacities of the IRS;
(d)    installation of an electronic internal audit system; and
(e)   training in the areas of management, taxation, finance, accounting, budgeting, research,
policy, and forward estimation.
Customs, Excise, and Preventive Services
20.    Problem. Customs administration in Ghana suffers from three main problems: (a)
deficiencies in policies and procedures which hinder trade; (b) the lack of trained managers and
customs officials; and (c) outdated nature of computer equipment for customs purposes. These
problems have also been the subject of discussion under the Trade and Investment Gateway Project
being developed by the Bank which will address the first two problems in its project design. This
Project will support the third component which is more directly related to the flow of revenue
information in a timely and reliable manner. However, the development and implementation of
these computer-related needs would be contingent on the reforms in policies and procedures and
developed by the Bank as a joint package.
21.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The primary objective of this project
component is to enhance taxpayer convenience and to maximize the efficiency of revenue
collection, reporting, andforecasting. To that end, the Project would support the following
activities:
(a)    an independent assessment of the customs data management system;
(b)   the development, and implementation, of a medium-term strategy for the modernization of
customs data management and related computer needs; and
(c)   the provision of training in customs data management and related areas. Other types of
training such as for management purposes would be provided under the Trade and
Investment Gateway Project.
Indirect Tax Reforms
22.    Problem. The Value Added Tax (VAT) was introduced in Ghana in March 1995 as a
replacement for the Sales Tax but had to be withdrawn within three months in the wake of protests
against what was claimed to be its high inflationary impact. The Sales Tax was re-introduced
along with a new Service Tax as a short-term measure while the indirect tax reforms were revisited
and revised.



10
23.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The objective of the new Indirect tax
will be to maximize the generation of indirect tax revenue in the country while enforcing greater
equity in taxation. This is to be achieved through a series of steps in the near- to medium-termn.
These relate to:
(a)    determining the organizational status of indirect tax administration. This would specify
the roles and responsibilities of the various tax agencies in indirect tax collection, their size
and structure, relationship with the other revenue agencies, and to questions of whether the
new indirect tax should be collected by a separate entity with nationwide operations, or
whether it should be amalgamated into one of the revenue agencies from which economies
of scale in tax collection and reporting can be derived,
(b)    reviewing the policy framework. This refers to companrsons with experiences in other
African countries which have successfully introduced the VAT, such as Zambia and
Uganda, review of the legal framework required, and a re-assessment of the publicity
campaign or the communications strategy needed (including the training of staff)
(c)    designing a new indirect tax. This relates to the design of the level and structure of the tax
rate, the nature and extent of exemptions, and the phasing-in of the implementation of the
tax.
(d)    evaluating the current software for indirect tax collection. Changes in the design of the
indirect tax, and the introduction of a TIN would require a re-evaluation of the software in
use for the registration of taxpayers, and the processing of retums and refunds, and a likely
purchase and customization of new software.
(e)    preparing for the launch of indirect tax reforms. This would include preparation of the
legislative bill that will need to be developed to introduce the new tax and the development
of the publicity program.
(f)    providing logistical support to the introduction of the new tax in terms of equipment and
supplies.
(g)    training of staff as well as taxpayers. The former need training in the technical aspects of
the tax and its collection, while the latter in areas of tax payment and record-keeping.
National Revenue Secretariat
24.    Problem. The National Revenue Secretariat (NRS) was set up under the SAIS project as
a central revenue coordinating and policymaking body. It was to be an autonomous body outside of
the Ministry of Finance, under a Cabinet Minister. It was charged with overseeing improvements in
tax collection, developing analytical capacity for tax policy analysis, formulating tax and revenue
policy, and preparing regular revenue estimates and projections. This was part of the "enclave"
approach to tax and customs administration in Ghana which Bank reviews have identified it as one
of the successful reform initiatives and which spearheaded the increase in tax revenues from a 6.5



11
percent of GDP in 1984 to 16.2 percent of GDP by 1994.5 But since then, changes in management
leadership and the incorporation of the NRS into the Ministry of Finance as a revenue unit have
obscured its function and identity, and undermined its utility.
25.    Project Component Objectives and Activities. The objective of this component would
be to clarify the role of the NRS and its relationship with the other revenue agencies and the
Ministry of Finance. The Project would support:
(a)    an independent assessment of the organizational status and role of the NRS, including its
relationship with the other revenue agencies, with a view to making recommendations for a
rational and efficient solution.
Audit Sub-System
26.    Problem. Audit requirements in Ghana are covered by the 1972 Audit Service Decree, the
1979 FAD, and, to a certain degree, by the 1992 Constitution. In October 1995, Coopers &
Lybrand, Accra, began a diagnostic study of the Ghana Audit Service-financed under the Bank's
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC)-which conducts external audits. Several problems
have been identified including weak technical skills and professional development, deficiencies in
the professional mix of staff, lack of use of computer technology, and inadequacy of logistics and
supplies. Internal audit also remains very weak. The FAD empowers the Auditor-General to make
arrangements for carrying out internal audits but concerns over potential conflict of interest
prompted the Auditor-General to assign the internal audit function to the Controller and
Accountant-General's Department in 1987. But this is also an unsatisfactory arrangements as the
accountants are now the internal auditors also.
27.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The objective of this component is to
promote the timely and effective audit of transactions to ensure that resources are being usedfor
the specified purposes. Modern auditing seeks to attain the highest level of accountability and
transparency in the public sector through the implementation of the internal audit of accounts and
financial operations performed by qualified personnel reporting to the chief executive officer of the
institution, and a posterior external audit performed by a qualified supreme audit institution that is
legally, financially, and politically independent of the executive branch and reports to an elected
legislative body representing citizens in general. In pursuit of these ends, the Project would
support the following activities:
External Audit
(a)    development of national Audit Standards (including electronic delinquency);
(b)    specifications of Audit Reports;
(c)    introduction of some value for money audit;
See, for example, The World Bank, 1996, "The Enclave Approach to Tax and Customs
Administration in Ghana", mimeo, Africa Technical Department (Capacity Building Division) and
The World Bank, 1995, "Designing Technical Assistance Projects: Lessons from Ghana and
Uganda". OED Precis No. 95.



12
(d)    on-line access to the budget implementation reports;
(e)   logistical support; and
(f)   training.
Internal Audit
(a)   institution of effective internal audit,
(b)    reporting on internal audit;
(c)   institutional arrangement for internal audit.
Procurement Sub-System
28.    Problem. To maximize expected gains in transparency and efficiency, the reforns of
public financial management would benefit from complementary reforms in the public sector's
procurement policies. The current procurement practices suffer from various deficiencies which
were recently diagnosed by a Bank report.6 Two key deficiencies are: (a) the multiplicity of
practices for the procurement of goods and services. The only formal rules and regulations are
incorporated in the Ghana Supplies Commission (GSC) Law which conducts no more than a
quarter of all public procurement in the country. Other procurement agencies use Bank and other
donors procurement guidelines. While this serves immediate needs of all concerned, it exposes the
country to potential problems when the country is required to depend on its own laws for
remedying procurement disputes and issues. In addition, even the current practice leaves bare the
area of local procurement and prevents the country from using National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures in Bank-financed contracts; and (b) lack of timely processing and reporting to
the CAGD on public procurement, largely on account of manual processing of all purchases and
payments.
29.    Proposed Component Objectives and Activities. The objective of this component is to
streamline the procurement of goods, works, and services, and establish an effective monitoring
and tracking system. The Project would support the following:
(a)   the review of public procurement practices in Ghana with a view to formulating a national
procurement code and establishing mechanisms for monitoring compliance with the code.
Information Technology Strategy
30.    The Project would support the development of a strategic plan for the use of computer-
based financial management systems. This strategy would cover (i) the development of the
technology specifications to be used across Government-hardware, interface between various
systems, and communication networks to be used, and (ii) the development of a global strategy for
maintaining and upgrading the IT systems. The strategy will require that the technology used is
6   The World Bank, 1996, Ghana: Country Procurement Assessment Report, March.



13
simple, breeds greatest familiarity with the potential users, and allows for interface between the
various components or sub-systems. In general, the following principles will be followed:
(a)    use application software packages already existent in the market, with the required
customization;
(b)    select application packages that run under UNIX and use a Relational Database
Management System (RDBMS); and
(c)    set up the hardware in a Local Area Network (LAN) shape, interconnecting the different
LAN servers in a distributed architecture.
31.    Application Software. For each project component, the GoG will try to identify the
application software package already existent in the market that most closely satisfies its data
processing needs. This package should be able to run on computers of different capacity in
accordance to the volume of transactions at each location. In addition, to avoid hardware
restrictions, the software will follow an "open system" concept to ensure portability to different
hardware platforms. In practice, the environment that comes closest to this concept is the UNIX
operating system; consequently, the software package will run under UNIX. In order to facilitate
the use of the package by the GoG, it would be desirable that the application would use an
RDBMS and that it was developed using a Fourth Generation Language (4GL). Furthernore, use
of a Graphical User Interface (GUI) will offer a user-friendly enviromnent for data entry and
access.
32.   In summary, the GoG will try to identify UNIX-based software packages, for instance for
government accounting, developed using a 4GL and a RDBMS, interacting with the end-user
through a GUI, which with appropriate customization will be used at the different units.
33.    Hardware. With respect to the hardware, each unit will need several workstations for
various tasks such as to enter the accounting transactions, undertake queries or print reports.
Since the information will have to be consolidated and shared, at each location a server will be
interconnected with the workstations forning a LAN. Each unit's budget and its expenditures
infornation will be stored in the server and, with adequate security restrictions, the workstations
will be able to retrieve and update the data in the server. If adequate communications facilities are
available, individual unit servers will be connected to the servers in the regional offices which, in
tum, will be interconnected to the main server in Accra. This will constitute a "distributed
architecture" network in which each unit, regional office and central server are "nodes." Each node
will have its own data processing and database management capability and summary or detailed
data, as required, will be sent to the main server. Where such connections will not be feasible,
diskettes containing the data will be sent periodically. Since each node will have the computing
power most appropriate to its requirements, resource utilization will be optimized and eventual
malfunction of one node will not affect the others. In addition, end-users at each unit will have
responsibility over their LAN and, as a result, a sense of ownership.
Human Resource Development
34.    The project design strongly emphasizes human resource development in order to provide
staff with opportunitiesfor the transfer and acquisition of new skills and to contribute to a core
of trainedfinancial managers in Government. Given weak local capacity, the provision of



14
adequate training is critical to the sustainability of the Project and to the reform program. The
training under the Project can be divided into six types, depending on the audience and the nature
of the training:
(a)    specific training to key Government staff in the principles, concepts, and methodologies for
the subject areas covered by the project components; this is training related to the
operational work of the staff,
(b)    general training to the people in the financial management chain related to aspects of
financial management such as accounting, budgeting, policymaking, taxation, etc. which
are relevant to;
(c)    general training to staff in standard computer software packages;
(d)    training to senior-level management and policymakers in the use of computer-based
financial management information systems;
(e)    end-user training in the use of the computer-based financial management information
systems; and
(f)    technical training to GoG system analysts and programmers in the use of the specific tools
to be employed for developing and implementing the information systems under the
Project, such as RDBMS, or UNIX operating system.
35.    The Project will provide for such training in the context of an overall training strategy
primarily using domestic resources and facilities. Training will be based on separate training needs
assessments for each agency. These would identify the current capabilities, the areas for training,
and the mechanisms for providing it. This will also take into account the existing training facilities
in these agencies and in the public sector generally. Most system-related training would be
provided by the system vendors as part of their system implementation. External training would
be limited to only those skills relevant to the success of the Project which cannot be obtained
locally. External providers of training will be used to train local trainers. The Project would permit
a limited number of structured Study Tours for key staff involved in the implementation of the
Project to learn from what other countries have done in modernizing their financial management
systems.
Legal Framework Revision
36.    The Project would support the revision of the legal framework for financial administration
in Ghana with a view to providing an adequate legalframeworkforfinancial management which
ensures transparency and accountability. This would require (i) a review of the current legislative
framework in the light of the changed political and institutional arrangements and practices; and
(ii) the development of revised financial rules and regulations to be submitted to Parliament for
approval.



15
Development of Manuals
37.    Manuals will be developed to provide operation guides for the convenience of the public
servants. These would include the preparation of Budget and Accounting Manuals as well as the
preparation of operational manuals on the hardware and softvare that may be installed under the
various project components.
Communications Strategy
38.    The Project recognizes the need for an effective communications strategy for the Project in
order to promote an understanding of the content and usefilness of the financial management
reforms being introduced. This will be addressed through two initiatives: (i) Inception
Workshops, and (ii) publication of a newsletter.
39.    Inception Workshops. A series of Inception Workshops has been launched to (a)
reinforce the concept ofjoint ownership and responsibility forfinancial management in
government, and (b) ensure the fuillest acceptance, participation, and cooperation of all key
players in public financial management. To these ends, the workshops will address the what, why
and how of the reform program, and elicit the thoughts and ideas of the participants which will then
feed into the design of the reforms. In particular, the workshops will educate the participants on
the objectives and scope of the reform program, outline what the benefits are likely to be and how
the participants would gain from them directly, explain how the public financial management
reform program would fit into ongoing institutional reform initiatives, discuss what the roles and
functions of the key players in financial management should be, and discuss how the sustainability
and success of the reforms can be ensured.
40.    These workshops would be targeted at (a) ministers, key presidential staffers, and chief
directors; (b) accounting, treasury, and budget officers; (c) managers in various line ministries, and
(d) private sector agents such as the private contractors, the Chamber of Commerce, the Private
Sector Roundtable, joumalists, academics, and local think-tanks; and (e) other target groups in
civil society.
41.    These workshops were started with the launch of PUFMARP by the Minister of Finance at
a tvo-day Workshop for senior civil servants in July, 1995. Subsequently, the Controller and
Accountant-General discussed the program with his staff from across the country at his annual
staff conference in September, 1995. Later, in July 1996, a workshop was organized with the
sector ministries in Accra on Budget and Public Expenditure Management. More Inception
Workshops are planned at the central, and regional levels. These workshops will be funded under
the Project. Additional funds through the Client Consultation Funds provided by the World Bank
are also being used to finance these workshops.
42.    PUFMARP Newsletter. A newsletter will be produced by the Project Management and
distributed widely within Government, to the donors, and the private sector to (i) disseminate
information on the status of the reforms, (ii) announce implementation schedules, and (iii) provide
examples of the latest and state-of-the-art practices in financial management from Ghana, Africa,
and the World. This newsletter will be produced quarterly initially with the frequency increased to
every two months as project implementation gathers speed.



16
Project Management
43.    The Project would provide for the support of a PUFMARP Implementation Team in the
Ministry of Finance to assist the Government in the implementation of the overall reform program
as well as those elements supported by this Project (see implementation arrangements below).
Assistance under the Project would cover salaries and other compensation for three contractual
members of the Team-the PUFMARP Manager, the Finance Manager, and the Information
Technology Manager-and for training, equipment, supplies, and civil works, as estimated.
C.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
44.    Tracking project performance indicators is necessary to monitor and evaluate not only the
implementation of the Project but also its end-results or outcomes. A set of such indicators has
been identified. These are presented in Annex A. Due to the functionally distinct components of
the project, the performance indicators have been developed for each component. The input and
process indicators summarize the set of activities that will be supported by the Project. The output
and outcome indicators identify for each component what the deliverables and expected end-results
are. Target dates are specified for each of the output indicators; however, the outcome indicators
can only be assessed over a period after the end of the Project; hence, a timetable for them is not
provided. This set of indicators will serve as the basis for project monitoring, supervision and
evaluation.



17
II.    PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Implementation
45.   Project implementation arrangements are described below. The Project is expected to be
fully implemented over a five year period with most activities completed over four years.
However, the process of financial management reform is a continuing process and it is envisaged
that the Government would continue to initiate and implement reforms in financial management as
and when needed. This is essential to ensure that the benefits from the project are maximized over
the long term.
46.    The Steering Committee. The Government set up a Steering Committee in June 1995 to
oversee the design and implementation of PUFMARP. The Steering Commnittee has 14 members:
(i) the Deputy Minister of Finance (Chairman); (ii) the Chief Director, MoF; (iii) the Director of
Budget; (iv) the Controller and Accountant-General, (v) the Deputy Controller and Accountant-
General (Financial Management Services); (vi) senior representative from the Ministry of Local
Government; (vii) senior representative from the Ministry of Roads and Highways; (viii) senior
representative from the Ministry of Health; (ix) senior representative from the Ministry of
Education; (x) senior representative from the Office of the Head of the Civil Service; (xi) senior
representative from the National Institutional Renewal Program; (xii) a Deputy Governor of the
Bank of Ghana; (xiii) the Deputy Auditor-General (Finance); and (xiv) the PUFMARP Manager.
47.   The Steering Committee has been charged with the following functions and
responsibilities: to establish and monitor a timetable for the implementation of PUFMARP; to
review and approve the procurement of goods and services for PUFMARP; to coordinate and
approve the various project components so as to ensure coherence and compatibility in design,
management, and implementation, to develop the consensus on, and continuing commitment to,
PUFMARP; and to make recommendations on policy issues which may arise in the design and
implementation of the program. The Committee is already mobilized and has held various
meetings with respect to the selection of the members for the PUFMARP Implementation Team
and the initial selection of consultants for the budget and public expenditure management
component of the reform program. Local donor representatives are also invited to these meetings.
48.    PUFMARP Implementation Team. The PUFMARP Implementation Team will be
comprised of three groups of people: The first group comprises three persons with special skills
required for the Project who have been hired on contractual terms. They are the PUFMARP
Manager, the Finance Manager, and the Information Technology Manager and form the core
Project Management Team. The terms of reference for all of these have been clearly laid out.
These three key persons are Ghanaians and were hired on contractual terms in May/June 1996
following an international job posting and competitive selection process. A key responsibility for
these people would be to train counterpart staff over a period of time. Monitorable indicators will
be used to assess their performance. The Government will provide adequate support staff and
facilities for them to perform their tasks effectively.
49.   The second group will consist of GoG staff who will be working on the project on a full-
time basis. This group will consist of a Deputy Controller and Accountant-General and a Project
Desk Officer from the Ministry of Finance. The Project Desk Officer will be responsible for (a)
administering disbursements, (b) providing advice on procurement, (c) maintaining project records
and preparing accounts (see Section G below), and (d) coordinating with the World Bank Desk in



18
the Ministry of Finance. The Project Desk Officer will also assist the PUFMARP Manager in
promoting communication between the various implementing agencies, preparing project progress
reports, and reporting to the Chief Director, Ministry of Finance. The Project Desk Officer would
be assisted in this task by an accountant to be financed from the credit.
50.    The GoG staff will be complemented by counterparts from each of the various departments
or agencies that will be implementing components of the Project. This would be a flexible
arrangement and staff would be assigned on a part-time or full-time basis, as required, for specified
periods of time. IDA funds will not be used for salary supplements for these staff
51.    The third group would comprise of consultants who will be designing and implementing
the various components. The working principle being adopted is one of teamwork. As soon as the
PUFMARP Implementation Team is fully mobilized, a team-building workshop will be organized
for the members to foster the right spirit.
52.    The Implementation Team will report directly to the PUFMARP Steering Committee
through the Chief Director, MoF. It will also liaise closely with the Controller and Accountant-
General, the Director of Budget, and the heads of the various agencies where reforms will be
introduced.
B.    Bank Role in Project Implementation
53.   In view of the significant complexity of technical assistance projects of this nature,
frequent supervision missions will need to be undertaken using both Bank and consultant staff.
T'he resources that need to be allocated for this will be high compared to the average technical
assistance projects. It is estimated that these requirements would be in the range of 30 staff weeks
per year. Where possible, these supervision missions will be coincided with those from other
donors financing the Project. It is envisaged that quarterly supervision missions will be required of
two weeks each. The two sets of core skills that will be required for supervision would be in
information technology and public financial management although specific missions may require
component-specific skills in these two areas.
54.    Given the complexity of the Project, thorough annual reviews of the Project would be done
to (a) assess performance against the performance benchmarks, (b) review the appropriateness of
continuing with the project design, and (c) take corrective actions. These reviews would be done
jointly by the Government and IDA, no later than the end of each calendar year starting in 1997. A
mid-term review of the Project will also take place in the third year in lieu of the annual review.
This review would be done jointly with the donors cofinancing the project. This would be done no
later than the end of 1999. This review will include additionally an assessment of (a) the
Government's continuing commitment to the financial management reform program and
achievement of the project targets laid out in Annex A, (b) overall progress in integrating the
various program components into a cohesive and complementary set of actions, (c) institutional
capacity to carry on project activities, amd (d) a review of arrangements for meeting recurrent
costs.
C.    Implementation Schedules
55.   The Implementation Schedule of the Project is presented in Schedule B of the Technical
Annex. While the Government is in full agreement with the details of the project components,



19
implementation arrangements and schedule, and the set of performance indicators as laid out in the
Technical Annex, it is devcloping a morc detailed Implementation Plan which will be a condition
for credit effectiveness. This Plan will also detail the performance indicators for the contractual
staff on the PUFMARP Implementation Team.
D.      Project Financing and Costs
56.    Project Financing. T'he proposed IDA credit of US$20.9 million would finance 68
percent of total project costs. Total project costs comprise 64 percent in foreign exchange costs
and 36 percent in local costs. Other donors- the ODA and EU-will finance about US$6.9
million in grants and the balance will be financed by the Govemment out of its own resources.
Firm  commitments for donor cofinancing is not yet available but each of thesc donor agencies is
preparing its ow,nl technical assistance project to support the various componcnts of the Project.
ODA is expected to finance the budget preparation component, the indirect tax refomi component,
and sonic training and workshops. EU is expected to finance the audit component as well as some
trainiing and workshops. The recurrent costs, which essentially comprise operations and
maintenancc expenditures for cquipmenlt, will be wholly financed by the Governrnent.
57.    Project Costs. Table I shows total project costs, by project component and expenditure
category'. 'The bulk of the investments are being made in BPEMS-covcring the budgeting, budget
execution and fiscal reporting, and accounting sub-systems-which is likelv to account for nearly
half of the total project costs.
Table 1: Estimated Project Cost by Component and Activitv
(US$ OOO's)_                                    -
Project activity Consiiltants    Training  Goods Civil works  Recurrent        Total
P.roject component      _
A. Budget pieparationi          336 0        24.0                                          360.0
(MTEF only)
B. Budget & Public Expcnd    2,000.0      1,200.0    7,626.5     1.140.7     1,270.8    13,237.9
Management (BPEMS)
C. Cash management              166.0      104.7       163.5         4.3        52.8      491.3
D. Debt managcment              308 0       41.0        32.5         7.4        11.1      400.0
E. Revcnuc management
Internal Rev Service         4320        288.8     2,33] 0       133.9       6034      3,789.0
Customs, Excise               820.0      326.5       710.9        75.5       110.4     2,043.2
National Rev Secretariat                  120 0                                          120.0
Indirect Tax Reform           960 0      921 9      1.123.0       87.0       370.0     3,461.8
F. Audit                        420.0       990.0      558 5        24.0       196.8     2,189.3
G. Procurement                  100.(        85 5      118.5         8.0        24.9      336.9
I. Project management         1,186.0       3120        60.0         7.2        147      1,579.9
SUBTOTAL        6,728.0    4,414.3    12,724.4     1,487.9     2,654.7    28,009.3
1. Continpencies                672.8      441.4      1,272.4      148 8       265.5     2,800.9
TOTAL       7,400.8     4,855.8    13,996.7     1,636.7    2,920.2    30,810.3



20
E.      Procurement Arrangements
58.     Procurement will be carried out by the PUFMARP Impleiic,ttationi Team which is
adequately staffed with persons having previous experience with IDA procurement policies. The
general principles applying to the procurement of goods, consultnig, scruvccs and civil works is
provided below. Table 2 below replicates the Procurement Metho(ds ti oll Schedule B of the
Memorandum of the President.
Table 2: Procurement Methods
(in USS OO0's)*
Procurement 'Mctthods
Project Element                      International       National        Other    Non-Bank          Total
Competitive    Competitive                  Financing
Bidding        Bidding
Consultant Services                            5-              -         069.6       2,331.2      7,400.X
(0()9Q.6)        (().0)    (5,069.6)
Goods                                     11,643.5          303.3        2)01 )       1,850.3     13,997.1
(11,643.5)       (273.0)       (180.0)        (o 0)   (12,096.3)
Training                                        --             --       2,420.0      2,435.7      4,855.7
(2.,42 0)        (0.0)    (2.420.0)
Civil Works                                     --        1,314.7         0))0 0       122 2       1,636.7
(1,183.2)     (1g0.0)         (0.0)    (1,363. 2)
Recurrent Expenditures                          --             --                    2,920.2      2,920.2
(0.0)        (n.0)
TOTAL                                     11,643.5        1,617.6       7,889.6      9,659.5     30,810.2
(11,643.5)     (1,455.8)     (7,849.6)         (0.()   (20,949.0)
* Figures in parantheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the MA). ., cflji. All niumbcrs incilide contingcncies.
59.     Procurement of Goods. Goods will be procured as follows. (i) National Shopping
Procedures acceptable to IDA for contracts of less than $50,000 (not e.;ceeding $400,000 in the
aggregate); (ii) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for contracts ValUed at $50.000 or more and
less than $200,000 (not exceeding $500,000 in the aggregate). using standard bidding documents
approvcd by IDA; and (iii) Intemational Competitive Bidding (1(13) for contracts valued at
$200,000 or more using IDA-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBI)) as per the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Creduts ( anuaIN 1995).
60.     ICB will be used to procure the bulk of goods consisting oF comnputer hardware and
software to be installed in the national and regional capitals. Computcr hardware (including
operating s'stem software) will be procured in three major packages based upon the time of
delivery and geographical location. Goods procured through ICB willi account for about 83 percent
of the total equipment value (US$11.6 million out of a total equipieniet cost of US$14.0 nmillion).
NCB will be used for the procurement of UPS voltage regulators and customized software, as wcll
as for furmiture and some other computer-related equipment throtnwh scparate packages. Shlopping
will be used for procuring only a few limited items such as vehiclcs and misccllaneous office



cquipmcnt. In the comparison of bids, for goods manufactured locally, domcstic prcference wvill bc
permissibic as per IDA guidelines.
61     Procurement of Consulting Services  Consulting serv iCcs will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's (G;idcines for (Use of Consultants bY WYorld Btnk Borrowers and by the World
Bank as lE'ecuting Agencly (August 1981 ). Procurcmciit will bc carried out by the individual
implenictinig agencies in coordinationi with thc PIJFNIARP Imiplelmentation Team. The contract
for BPEMS--thc largest singlc componncit unldcr the Projcct-was awvarded bv invitation and with
IDA approval to Price Waterhouse Associates. The terms of refcrence for this contract is attached
as Annex C' Draft terms of reference for most of the othcr nmajor consultinig contracts are cxpctcd
to be finalized bv crcdit effectiveness. One of the importanit consulting assignmncits will be for the
consolidation of the procurement code (sec paras 28-29) For all constilting contracts, IDA's
standard forms of consultant contract Nould be utilized. Proposals for training and study tours
will be prepared half-yearly idcntif ing the persons to be trained, the institutions and the period of
training, and the estimated costs wvhich will be cloared \ith IDA before implemcntation.
62.    Procurement of Civil Works. Civil works for thc Project comprise mainlv of building
upgrades. cable re-w%iring. and lcectrical installations. Thcsc will be scattercd over many offices
and completed over three xears. Contracts are expected to be small. not exceeding $500,000 each,
and foreign fimis will not be interestcd in sutci xNorks. Adcquate local capacity exists to
accomplish the civil works and procuireenit of all civil works \1ll be by NCB.
63.    Prior Review. Prior reviewv will be mandatory for all contracts for goods and works, each
estimatcd to cost $100.000 or more, and the first contiact tinder NCB proccdtires. Consultant
contracts with firmis in exccss of$100.000 and w\ith individuals in cxcess of $50,000 would bc
subjcct to IDA's prior revic\v
F.     Disbursemcnt Plan
64.    The proposed projcct is expectcd to be disbursed o cr a period of five years. The closing
date will be December 31, 20) 1. Disburscmciits w ill be adminiistercd bv thc PUFMARP
Implcmeintation Team in the Ministry of Flinanice. To facilitate project impleimentation, a Special
Account in LJS dollars would be opened in a comimierciaJ bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation would amounit to $500.000 and would cover four mionitlis of eligible expcnditures. Upon
crcdit effectivcncss, $250,0000 rcprcscnting 50 perccnt of the authorizcd allocation, would be
dcposited inito the Special Accounit. TIIC remainingg balance \would bc made availabic when
cumrulative disbursenients reach thc cquivalent of S 1 .500.000.
65.    The Special Account w1ould bc replcinishted mnonthIk. Repicnishment applications would be
fiill\ documcinted except for: contracts of less thani 5100.000 equivalent for goods and consulting
services (firms), $50,000 cquivalent for consultilng serviccs (individuals), and training and
operating costs \vhich max be claimed on the basis of Statcnicnts of Expenditire (SOEs). All
supporting documentationi for application subniitted onI thc basis of SOEs would be retaincd for
revicw by pcriodic IDA supervision missionis and cxtcrnal auditors.
G.      Accounts, Audit and Reporting
66.    The mainitenance of records and thc pr eparation of accounts and progress rcports will be
carricd out bv the PUFMARP Impleiiicntationi Tcamii. Onc fill-time official wsill be responsible for



22
the maintenance of records and the preparation of accounts. Financial accounting and reporting
will comply with IDA requirements and its quality will be assured by the use of the GoG Desk
Officer and accountant for the Economic Management Support Project which is due to close soon.
67.    The project accounts, the special account, and the statements of expenditures will be
audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. The audit report will be provided to
IDA within 120 days of the financial year end.
68.   In addition to the financial reporting, a full progress report will be prepared and submitted
to IDA every quarter. This report will detail all project and related activities, report on progress in
relation to agreed schedules, and identify any problems which may have been encountered and
which could adversely affect the overall impact of the project. The reports will also provide
information against the target performance indicators. The format for this report is being
developed and will be agreed to with IDA.



Ghana: Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
OVERALL PROJECT OBJECTIVE: t o enhance the efTiciency. accountabilitv and transparency of the financial management functions of the Govenunent.
INPUTS                         PROCESSES                                   OUTPUTS                      Target Datc                OUTCOMES
A.  Budget Prcparation Sub-System
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                     . . . . . . . .
OBJECTIVE: To improve the pLanning and budgeting of public exeditures and thius cotributc to stnghnc fscal policy formnlation and implementation.
*  Consultancies        *  Institute a Medium Ierm Expenditurc    *  Formulation of the annual budget within     Q4, 2000  *  lBudget preparation would be more
*  TIraining               Framework in the normal budget process.    a complete rolling MTEF                                   organized through improved data base
*  Equipmcnt            *  Improve formulation of the annual budget.  *  A comprehensive, broad-based budget      Q4, 1998      and improved link-up between planning
*  Develop an information system to track     (that includes all project aid financed                   and budgetary outlays within a
budget preparation.                        receipts and expenditures)                                specified macrocconomic framework.
*  Train budget personnel from Mol,        *  Computerized budget preparation             Q4, 1998  *  Improved budgeting in the MDAs
NDI)C, and MDAs in the preparation of      process                                                  leading to greater ownership and
an MTl EF and the use of information   *  Printed Budget document ior Plarliament      Q4, 2000      enhanced accountability.                  LA
systems in budget preparation.             containinig M IlEF and project aid
financed expenditures.
!  Budget Guidelines which are discussed       Q3, 1997
and approved by the Cabinet.
B. Budget Implemcntation Sub-System
Objective; To ensure an orderly and smooth implementation of the budget, while providing adequate flexibility to the MDAs to maniage ticir prograius and projects, as well as to enable
the Miaistry of Fianwce to maintain oversigit that is in coufunfity with ther quiretnenots of macroeconomic stabilization.
*  Consultancies        *  Design and implement a Budget           *  TIimely and reliable budgetary reports      Q4 1998  *  Improved record of the MDAs to spend
*  1Training               Classification System that is consistent   for management in accordance with the                     within their budgetary allocations.
*  Equipment               with the Chart of Accounts common to all   FAR and FAD.                                           *  Inproved monitoring, over time, of
MDAs.                                  *  CAGD quarterly accounts includes all         Ql, 1999      budget implementation on the basis of
*  Re-design the systems, processes, and      expcnditures and receipts, including all                  commitments and the use of
procedures for expcnditure control.        aid.                                                      computerized variance analysis of
*  Develop and implement infonnation       *  Comprehiensive quarterly accouliis arc      Q'  1999      actual expenditires and budgetary
systems to support the above design.       available on both cash and commitment                     outlays.
*  Integrate these systems with the budget    basis for the narrow budget                            *  Comprehensive and timely information
preparation and accounting, cash       *  Comprehensive quarterly accounts are         Q4, 1998      available to the public on the fiscal
management, and debt management            available on both cash and commitment                     position, enabling greater transparency
systems.                                   basis for the broad budget.                               and accountability of the Government        >
o>e



*  Train budget, finance, and treasury staff    *  Quarterly accounts of recCipts and         Q4, 1999       on the use of public resources.
in the MDAs in budget implementation         expenditures, with the latter available by
issues and procedures.                       Region and by category of expenditure
INPUTS                          PROCESSES                                     OUTPUTS                        Target Date                 OUTCOMES
C. Accountlng Sub.S..tem:: .i;- : :     -         -                      :
D'S:  E  f:030d,;  iT i:  DSti;.02070000.00ftiESESid-i:flD :t'0,l:;EDiE,.......  ......'  .            ..   .    ..     .....   ..   ... .    ......-:...    .
stzttli of the  ea    , np eel'  anio                                                                                                             a d   p t   te  p
*  Consullancies         *  Define a comprehensive and unified Chart  *  A uniformn Chart of Accounts.                  Ql, 1997   *  A changed and complete base for the
*  Equipment                of Accounts for the GoG that meets with    *  Each MDA implemets an effective              Ql,7 1999      public accounts of Ghana.
*  Training                 the requirements of the MIDAs, MoF, and       financial management system for                          *  Complete, timely, and reliable financial
CAGD, and is adaptable for decentraliz.ed    planning, allocation, utilization, and                      information to assist MDAs in their
operations.                                  accounting of resources.                                     internal management and for the
*  Implement, where required, a common       *  Complete Consolidated Public Accounts         Q2, 2000       public.
General Ledger System.                       of GoG showing GoG assets/liabilities
*  Formulate reports to be submitted by the     and all revenues/expenditures
Treasuries.                              *  Issuance of monthly and yearly financial       Q 1 1997N
*  Formulate operating statements to be         reports                                                                          .
provided by CA(il.                       *  Revision ofl:AIVl:AD                           Q4, 199X
*  Specify accounting standards for
Governrnent.
* Link accounting with the payroll and
pension systems.
*  Install an effectivs publie pbi payments
system.
*  Train stafmin the neWv accounting system.
:D,: Cash: Muagewent S      Cab.steAGD, and is aptb wfo d nl - :-.                           u         and -. -                                     asis iA  in thcir
Objective:: To achicve a efficient provieton of                           aoe cash: returesothe  overnment while voiding tes rc obilition ofresces and minmzing the:costs of m orrowgingc .nd for the
*  Consultancies         *  Develop cash flow determination and       *  Monthly cash flol statements by MDAs.          Q32 1998   *  Greater euliciency ofcash management
*  Training                 forecasting eapabilities in Government.   *  Forecasts ofquarterly cash flows               Ql 1999       through reduced usage Of short-term
*  Equipment             *  Link public sector borrowings to cash        including public sector borrowing                            high-interest debt to finanee GoG cash
Fonw,                                        requiremens                                                  shortages, and the timely deposit of
*        Develop a policy for the management of    *  Real-time reconciliation belween        Q, 1999        funds into the Consolidated Fund.
the cash assets of the Government            CAGDR  BoG, and Budg  Division of
including setting up standards and           MoF including arrangements for
procedures.                                  clearing dues. a
*  Design and implement n   computer-based    *  Cash management standards including                          .__             _      _     _
'777 ~~~~~~~ 



cash management system.                    investment policy for surplus cashi.        Q3, 1997
* rrain treasury ofliccrs in cash
management.
INPUTS                         PROCESSES                                   OUTPUTS                      Target Date [              OUTCOMES
Aid and Debt Managenent Sub-SSc                                           .... ...   ...                                                                      ......
Objecive: To strengthen the management of b   quist, s ar       d  r            bl 
*  Consultancies        *  Integrate external debt database between    *  Production of annual/biannual reports on  Q2, 1998  *  Timely debt service payments on GoG
*  Training                ADMU, BoG, and CAGD.                       public debt, both domestic and foreign,                   external debt.
*  Equipment            *  Development of complete database on        with respect to its stock, term structurc,             *  Timcly receipts of debt service
external debt, including central bank      amortization, and interest paymcnt.                       payments made by parastatals and/or
guarantees.                            *  Production of annual reports on BoG          Q2, 1998     record of defaulters.
*  Full operationalization of AMIS.           gurantees on external loans obtained by
*  Integration of NaTCAP data with ADMU.      parastatals and private sector agencies.
.  Ensure that information flows on public  *  Production of annual reports on external   Q2, 2000
debt to other subsystems of financial      aid in kind
management system.                                                                                                                             N
*  [Iraining of staff from ADMU, CAGD,                                                                                                            u
and l3oG involved in aid and debt
management
F. Rcvenuc Sub-System
Objective: To promote svstems of tax administration aimed at achieving greatcr taxpayer compliance anid convic   incre  e eff icncyaievemie callefiom  eporuga
forecasting.
*  Consultanicies       *  Redesign the stiructure of tax          .  Rational and coherent structure for tax     Q2, 1997  *  Tracking of assessments, collections,
*  Iraining                administration with clearly defined roles  administration.                                           and the crediting of the collections into
.  Equipment               and responsibilities for each revenue   *  Strategy fbr a unique and common            Q2, 1997      the Consolidated Fund.
agency.                                    Taxpayer Idcntification Number.                       *  Reduction of lags in collection and
*  Develop and design an interrelated and  *  Full implementation of TI N                 Q2, 2001      dcposits.
integrated system for revenues that    *  Computerized system for direct taxes         Ql, 2001  *  Reduced variance, over time, between
interfaces with the budget, accounting,  *  Implementation of new indirect tax,        Ql, 1998      quarterly revenue forecasts and actual
cash management and debt sub-systems.      including its computerization.                            collections.
*  Develop and introduce a common and      *  Full implementation of system for           Ql, 2000  *  Increased collection of import tariff,
unique Taxpayer Idendification Number.     customs data management.                                 reducing the gap between the effective
*  Develop and introduce a modified indirect  *  Monthly and annual revcnue reports       Q2, 1997      tariff and the import-weighted statutory
tax regime.                               from each agency.                                         tanff.
*  Assess the current system for customs   *  Reliable quarterly forecasts of revenues.   QI, 1998  *  Receipt of dividends from parastatals
data management.                       *  Internal audit reports that provide          (   1997      on timely basis.
*  D)evelop and implement a medium-term
> X



strategy for the modernizatioin ofcustoms    transparency of revenue collection
data management.                             runction.
*  Strengthen the interial audit units at all
revenue agencies.
*  1irain stafl in new systems.
*  Develop better and more Ghana-speciiic
revenie fbrecasting techniques
INPUTS                           PROCESSES                                      OUTPUTS                       Target Date                  OUTCOMES
G. Audit Sub-System.....7 777
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......                                                                         ....
Objective: To promote the timely and effective audit of transactions to er that resoresrare eing used for the:sccified purpoe':.  
*  Consultants           *  Institute procedures and processes Cor     .  Stanidards for [nternal and Extemal             Ql, 1998   *  An audit service capable of performing
*  Training                  efiective internal audit                      Audit.                                                        reliable financial audits.
*  Equipment             *  Establish Internal Audit Units in the      *  A start on valuc-for-money audit                Ql, 1998   *  Implementation of procedures and
various entities of the GoG.              .  Computer access to accounting system           Q1, 1999       sanctions when problems are identified
*  Fomiulate reporting requirements on           and budget implementation system.                             in audit reports. Location of
internial audit                           *  Regulations for contractinig audit finns       Q4, 1998       responsibility for follow-up in the MoF.
*  D)evelop national audit stazidards.           to perform audits.
*  Develop specifications for audit reports   *  Regulations regarding follow-up systems        Q4, 1998   *  Intemal audits being performed                N
*  Criteria for audit staff performance          for audit recommendations.                                    continually providing feedback to the
evaluation and prolessional developiment.   *  Anuial audit planis for eaclt year.          Q4 1998        licads of MDAs Ibr more efltctive
*  Train statt Ionnally and on-tie-job to    *  Annual assessiiieints of stafl performance      Q4, 1997       managemeiit
create a cadre ofprofessional auditors.   *  Internal audits which help management          Q4. 1997
better utilize resources.
H. Procuremcnt Sub-Svstem
Objective: To streanrdine the procurement of goods, works, and services and establish an eflective mottitoring ard trieaking system for public proctr emnt
*  Consultancies         *  Review public procureineilt practices in   *  Study on thie review of public             Q3, 1997       *  Competitive tendering and contracting
*   fIramling                Ghana with a view to formulating a            procurement regulations and practices.                      procedures are specified and folloxved
*  Equipment                 National P rocuremenit Code and                                                                           (includes standardizationi of procurement
mechanisms for ensuring compliance with                                                                   across Government).
the code.                                                                                              .  Building up of database on costs of
procured items.
e,
c >



GHANA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1996       I       1997        I       1998        1       1999        1       2000                2001
ID  Task Name                                                 Ql          3Q4 Q10Q20Q304 |Ql 0Q2Q3 IQ                          020304012030Q40QlQ20Q3
1   Budget Preparation                                                                                                       -
2        Medium-Term Expenditure Framework                                 I
3            Preparation for the introduction of MTEF
4             Launch of MTEF
S             Updating Macroeconomic Franewwork
6             Develop Sectoral Ceilings*                                                                                                                        :
7             Sector Review Process in Pilot Ministries
-             Preparation of Annual Ceilings and Guidelines
9             Preparation of 1998 Budget Estimates
10            Review and Finalization of 1998 Estimates
:                       :                                                                                  '
11            Presentation of 1998 Budget to Parliament
12            Extension of MTEF to other ministries
13            Operation of the MTEF for the 2001-2003 Budget
14       Computer Systems to Support Budget Preparation                     .
16            Development
16            Implemenationmenalo
17   Budget & Public Expenditure Management System                        i                                             .
1f        Phase I: DESIGN
19            High Level System Design
20            BPEMS Detail Design
21            System Abstract
22            Requirement Definition
23            Search for Application Software
24        Phase lI:PILOT IMPLEMENTATION
__ _      __     _    _    _      ___     _    __      __                                                       __       _W 



GHANA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
_.  _______ ___ _ 1996  T 1997          1999                1999        r        2000                2001
ID  Task Name                                                   Q1QT Oi1Q4|QIQ23Q4O1Q2Q3O4Q1Q2Q3O4Q1O2O3O4O1O2O3
25            Change Mngmt, Capacity Bldg, and Training Plan
26            Bid Proc., Eval., & Customization of AppI. Software
27            Procurement of Computer Hardware & Software
28            Data Conversion Strategy
29            Pilot Implementation in 7 ministries
30        Phase IIl: REPLICATION                                      .r
31            Preparation & Installation
32            Implementation
33        Partial Operation of BPEMS for 1999 Budget
34        Full Operation of BPEMS for 2000 Budget
0,
35        Refinements and Full Evaluation                                                                                                                  * **k-°°
36   Cash Managemnent
37        Preparation & Submission of Cash Needs by MDAs
38        Linking Cash Forecasts with Resource Flows
39        Linking cash needs to Public Borrowings                                 :
40        Electronic Link-up between BoG, CAGD, & Budget Dvn.
41   Aid & Debt Management                                              _       -                                                             *
42        Integration of External Debt Database
43        Enhance external debt data consolidation at ADMU
44        Completion of AMIS                                                 . --           i.:
46        Integration of NaTCAP with AMIS                                    *..           
46   External Audit
47        Development of National Audi Standards                                       _0>
49        Specifations of Audit Reports 
_ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -                                          _



GHANA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
__                                          _        ~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                    ~         ~~~~1996  1   97 1 198    1999         2000                 2001     _
ID    Task Name                                                 Q1  02|03            I Ql I Q2|Q3|Q4|Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 !I ,TQ3 I Q4 IQl |Q2|Q3|Q4|Ql  Q2|Q3
49        Introduction of Value-for-Money Audit
50        Computer access to Public Accounts
61   Internal Audit
52        Institution of Effective Internal Audit
53        Reporting on Internal Audit
54   Internal Revenue
55        Develop Strategy for TIN
66        Publicdy Campaign
57        Procure/customize software
58        Install/Test System
59        Pilot Implementation in Accra                                                                          . 
60        Extension to other centers                                                                                                               .:.
61    Customs
62        Assess customs data management
63        Develop medium-term strategy for modernization
64        Implement modern customs data management system
65   Indirect Tax Reform                                          r
66        Review Organizational Status
67        Prepare Policy and Legal Framework
63        Redesign New Indirect Tax
69        Evaluate Current Software
70        Pass Laws
71        Devise & Organize Publicity & Education Campaign          / /
72        Logistical Support
_____   ______________________________________                                                                                                 CM   U~~~~o >
(5W



GHANA: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1996               1997        1       1999       J       1999                2000               2001
ID   TaskNarme                                               01         3 4    10203040Q1  Q20Q3jQ41Q1  0Q20Q30Q40Q1 0Q20Q30Q4 010 Q20Q3
73   National Revenue Sectt.
74        Review Organizational Status
75   Procuremnent                                                          :
76       Review of Public Procurement
77       Implementation of Recommendations
78   PUFMARP kIplemeniation Team          -                                                        I |
0



31
Annex C
Terms of Reference
for
Consultancy Services
for the Design and Implementation
of a
Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
for the
Government of Ghana
Issued October 1995
I.    Introduction
1.    The Government of Ghana's Public Expenditure Review for 1993 highlighted several
problems including weak budget preparation, weak expenditure monitoring and control
mechanisms and the lack of a proper accounting system. Subsequently, the GoG with inputs from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), and the World Bank developed a medium-term strategy for reforming the
public financial management system. This strategy seeks to develop an integrated public.financial
management system. This strategy has since been adopted by the Cabinet and forms the basis for
planned measures to be supported by technical assistance from ODA, CIDA, and the World Bank.
2.     Some elements of an integrated public financial management system already exist in
Ghana or are being implemented -- for instance, the customs system, a debt management system,
and an Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database (IPPD). Since 1994, there have also been
significant positive developments in governmental accounting and financial reporting. But there
remains a strong need to strengthen and consolidate these developments. The GoG has prioritized
key areas for immediate action -- budgeting, public accounting, and financial reporting. The GoG
consequently wishes to proceed to set up a modem Budget and Public Expenditure Management
System (BPEMS). These terms of reference provide a description of the technical assistance
required by GoG to develop and implement the BPEMS component of its overall public financial
management reform program as provided in Table 1. This BPEMS will be implemented in
Ministries, Departments, and Agencies in Accra and all other regional capitals.
3.     The GoG therefore invites qualified firms, with experience in the design and
implementation of computer-based government financial management systems to assist in this
project. Extensive experience in the design and implementation of similar systems for other
government agencies. Previous experience in the implementation of similar systems in less
developed countries or in countries of the British Commonwealth will be an advantage. Part of the
services required under this project could be satisfactorily carried out by local firms. International
firms are required to enter into partnerships with at least one local firm in both the design and the
implementation of BPEMS.
4.     The consultants will need to work closely with GoG officials in the various financial
organs of the Government which have responsibility for fiscal management processes, including,
inter-alia, the offices of the Controller and Accountant General (CAG), the Ministry of Finance
(MoF), the Bank of Ghana (BoG), and the various Ministries, Departments, and Agencies



32
Table I
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
REFORM COMPONENT AND ELEMENTS
Financial Systems Study       Capacity Building       Financial Legislation and    Development of
I                       I Regulations               Manuals
Accounting System             Change Management       Revision & Consolidation of  Budget Manual
Design                                                Financial Legislation and
Regulations
Budget Management             Human Resource                                     Governmental
(Composite Broad-Based)       Development                                        Accounting &
Reporting Manual
Payroll Management
Public Expenditure
Management
Revenue Management
Decentralized Financial
Management & Reporting
Procurement and Contract
Management
Cash Management
Investments Management
Receivables Management
Fixed Assets & Inventory
Management
Aid and Debt Management
Pensions Management
Comprehensive Auditing
Related Information
Technology



33
(MDAs), etc. The consultants will report to the Project Manager who will head a Project Team
which is to be set up by the GoG. The Project Team will work under the auspices of a Steering
Committee which is headed by the Deputy Minister of Finance and includes the Controller and
Accountant General, the Chief Director of the Ministry of Finance, and representatives from some
key line ministries. The Project Team will include well qualified professionals in financial
management and information technology for whom an international search is underway.
II.    Objectives
5.    The fundamental objective of BPEMS is to implement a reliable, scientifically developed,
computerized, broad-based budget and public expenditure management system that is capable of
providing accurate, timely, and up-to-date information on commitments, actual expenditures,
budget allocations and financial reports in order to:
(a)    enable MoF to institute a scientific, pragmatic, and meaningful budgetary system
for the country;
(b)    enable the MDAs and Metropolitan, Municipal, and District Assemblies
(MMDAs) to better manage their budgets and ensure that sectoral budget
allocations are not exceeded;
(c)    enable the MoF to ensure effective implementation and adherence to the national
budget;
(d)    provide a basis for improved financial management in Government;
(f)    enable the CAG to fulfill his statutory functions of reporting on the national public
accounts;
(g)    enable prompt and accurate reconciliation of the national public accounts with the
accounts of the Bank of Ghana, MDAs, and MMDAs; and
(h)    enhance public accountability.
6.    BPEMS will be designed to meet the needs of users of financial information. Such a
system would need to be comprehensive in terms of coverage and be a source of reliable and timely
data to become a credible source of information for users. It will provide an integrated
government-wide budgeting and accounting system, will encompass the functional requirements for
the budget preparation, budget execution, budget evaluation, and accounting processes and would
cover the appropriation, commitment, funds allocation, and payment processes for both the
recurrent and the development budget of both centralized and decentralized governmental agencies
and institutions. The system should also facilitate the proposed devolution of financial
responsibility to MDAs, and MMDAs.



34
III.   Scope of Work
7.    The Scope of Work for this consultancy involves the tasks associated with the design and
implementation of the above systems including the specification of the hardware and software
requirements and the provision of training.
8.    BPEMS will be implemented in a phased manner. In Phase I, BPEMs will be
designed, specifications developed for the required hardware and softvare, and procurement
arrangements will be completed. It is anticipated that this can be completed by March 31, 1996.
In Phase II, BPEMS will be implemented in at least seven priority ministries by June 30, 1996.
The seven priority ministries are: Ministry of Finance (including the Controller and Accountant
General's Department), Ministry of Roads and Highways, Ministry of Works and Housing,
Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Information, and Ministry of Local
Government and rural Development. (The exact coverage of departments and agencies under the
ministries will be determined later.). In Phase III, PBEMS will be replicated across remaining
ministries in Accra and the regional capitals. This will be completed by December 31, 1997.
9.     Each phase will normally start upon substantial completion of the preceding phase and will
be contingent upon the satisfactory completion and acceptance by GoG and the World Bank of the
deliverables listed for that phase. The aim of the prioritization of the implementation is to ensure
that the consultant executes the contract in accordance with the TORs and at the same time to
enable a phased handing over of the products to the Govermment. The consultant will be required
to present monthly Project Status Report to the Project Manager. The report will specify activities
conducted by the consultant during the preceding month; problems encountered, if any, and
proposed solutions; and activities expected to be performed during the following month.
10.   The tasks and major deliverables associated with each phase of the project are listed
below:
IV.   Phase I: Systems Design and Specification of Hardware and Software Requirements
A.    Preparation of the detailed functional design and requirements for the specified
systems and development of specifications for the Technology Architecture required for the
implementation of these systems.
11.   The tasks involved in this activity would include:
(a)    Studying the functional processes including administrative procedures, transaction
documents, forms and information flows, data flow statistics, related to the
accounting and reporting, payroll, pension, and cash management areas currently
in use.
(b)    Developing and defining a new set of functional processes, information flows,
procedures, transaction types and associated documents and forms, and related
structures required to set up the new system.
(c)    Developing a full functional design for the computer systems required, including
the specification of the major data bases and data entities, the outputs reports, the



35
input formats, transaction documents, input screen designs, processing and
controls for the systems required at various nodes of the information flow network,
the interfaces and data flows between these nodes and with external systems.
(d)    Design of the Technology Architecture to implement the Information Systems.
This would include drawing up specifications of the -1W and S/W to be installed
at various nodes and the mode of interconnection of this Hardware and Software.
The overall H1W, S/W strategy to be employed for implementation is determined
by the fact that a Government-wide accounting system will require a multi-tiered
network with modules at the central and regional office levels. The system would
require facilities for generating, storing, and processing data at each level and for
exchanging data between levels. The data volumes encountered could vary widely
across the nodes of the network, dictating the size of the computer at each node.
Application software should therefore be scaleable for small or large computers
and usable on a variety of H/W platforms. The system should utilize a distributed
computer architecture with computing power located at the various nodes of the
network. The software environment should be portable to different platforms
(UNIX-based) and use modern application development tools such as Relational
Data Base Management Systems (RDBMS), Fourth Generation Languages
(4GLS), and Graphical User Interfaces (GUls). The consultants should ensure
that these aspects are kept in mind while developing the technology architecture.
In view of the availability of local expertise on ORACLE, SYBASE, INFORMIX,
WINDOWS, the consultant shall give preference to systems utilizing these tools.
12.   This task would include:
*   Surveying GoG offices and budget at the central, regional, and district levels, to
determine the locations where the computer systems would need to be implemented,
the associated transaction volumes (current and projected) and data requirements, to
determine sizes and configurations of the HIW, S/W to be installed at these nodes
and the mode of the interconnection of the nodes between the center and the regions,
to ensure accurate and timely data transfers between the nodes.
*   Preparing the specifications of the hardware, systems software, application
development software, and the application software package required at the various
sites for each phase of the project for incorporation in the tender documents.
*   Drawing up specifications for associated facilities required for the installation of the
system, such as power stabilizers, UPSs, telecommunication interfaces, and
computer site specifications for incorporation into the tender documents.
13.   The primary deliverables for Phase I will be:
Budget and Expenditure Mananement System
* A Revised Budgetary Classification.
* Functional Design document for the Information Systems.
* Specifications for the hardware and software and related facilities.



36
Accounting and Reporting System
* A new Chart of Accounts consistent with the Budgetary Classification.
* Functional Design document for the Information Systems.
* Complete set of transaction documents, reporting formats, procedures, manuals (for
both budgets and accounting) required for the implementation of the systems.
* Application Systems design.
* Technology Architecture including specifications for H/W, S/W, and
Communications Systems and associated facilities.
In addition, the organizational changes required to implement these systems should also be
detailed. Such GoG divisions or units that need to be created or eliminated and changes in staffing
requirements.
B.    Search for Application Software
14.    On the basis of the functional analysis above, the consultants will investigate altematives
for application softvare. This would include investigating and ascertaining which off- the-shelf
software packages can meet the functional requirements as defined above. While conducting a
search for software packages, the consultants will ensure that: (i) the software packages provide
the required functionality; (ii) local support is available for the package and it is possible to
obtain and install upgrades and/or changes to the packages in Ghana as they become available;
(iii) the vendor for the package provides customization assistance as may be required or
alternatively the package source code is available for making changes as may be required; (iv) the
costs associated with any customization are identified clearly in the total cost; (v) the package runs
on a range of hardware and operating software which is compliant with the hardware/software
strategy proposed for the systems (above); (vi) adequate documentation is available to enable
package installation and use; and (vii) licensing arrangements clearly specify use of the package
at multiple sites in Ghana.
15.    The deliverables for this activity will be:
The results of the application software package evaluation process with the selection of
the application software which best meets the requirements of the proposed systems.
C.    Preparation of Tender Documents for the Acquisition of Hardware and Software
16.    During this activity, the consultants will assist the Government in the procurement of the
H/W and S/W. The consultants will:
(a)    Incorporate the Hardware and Software Specifications prepared as part of the
earlier task to prepare a request for proposals for procurement of the Hardware
and Software. These tender documents should be prepared in accordance with the
World Bank Procurement Guidelines and Procedures. It may be noted that the
H/W, S/W will be procured via an integrated procurement package but will be
delivered in several stages. Delivery will be, first, for the Pilot system and then,
over a period of time, for the replication of the system at other sites. These



37
specifications must include allowance for maintenance and support for the
hardware and software for a period of 5 years, and for consumables for 5 years.
H/W  requirements should also address environmental requirements such as
Uninterrupted Power Supply Units (UPSs), etc.
(b)    Develop criteria for the evaluation of vendor proposals.
(c)    Assist the Government in the tendering process and in evaluating vendor
proposals and in the acquisition of the hardware and software.
(d)    Provide technical management and quality assurance of the vendor's work, plan
and prepare for data conversion and systems acceptance testing.
17.    The deliverables for this activity will be:
* Specifications and bid documents for the procurement of Hardware and Software for
the implementation
* Evaluation Criteria for Hardware and Software and a test data required to ensure the
proper functioning of the application software;
* Assistance to the Government in the tendering process, in evaluating vendor proposals
and in the acquisition of hardware and software.
* Technical management and quality assurance of the vendor's work;
* Data Conversion Plan; and
* User Acceptance Test Plan.
D.    Preparation of a Detailed Implementation and Training Plan
18.    The consultants will develop a detailed implementation plan and schedule listing all
associated tasks and their logical dependencies. this schedule will show all tasks associated with
the procurement and installation of the hardware and software, software customization, training of
local personnel, and installation of the system at prescribed sites.
19.    This also requires the consultants to assess the capacity of government officials to use and
manage the recommended system and accordingly develop a detailed training plan for staff. This
plan will ensure adequate capacity building in the ministries and suggest institutional arrangements
for systems support and maintenance.
20.    The key deliverable for this will be:
* Implementation plan including schedule and responsibilities.
* Assessment of staff capacity.
* User Training Plan.



38
V.     Phase 11: Pilot Systems Implementation in Seven Ministries in Accra
and the Regional Capitals
21.    Pilot Systems implementation will involve: (i) the installation and tests of hardware and
basic software (such as DBMS, Application Development tools etc.), (ii) installation and testing of
the application software, and (iii) training operating system end-users.
22.    The consultants will assist the GoG in managing the installation of the hardware, the basic
software, and application software. Each of these tasks are discussed in detail below:
(a)    Installation of Hardware. The consultants will assist GoG in supervising the
supplier in the installation and testing of the hardware procured. This would
include supervision of site preparations for the hardware including electrical
power requirements, voltage stabilizers, telecommunications, and other elements
as required. The consultant will also perform all required hardware acceptance
tests on behalf of the GoG.
(b)    Installation of Software. The consultants will assist the GoG with the
implementation, testing of the application software and its customized version.
This includes setting up any initial data tables, files, databases, etc. as required by
the application.. The consultants would be required to assist the Government in
quality assurance tests to ensure that the application packages have the required
functionality. In case a package requires customization to meet specified
functional requirements, the consultant will specify the changes required and
arrange for the changes to be implemented.
(c)    The consultants will insure the availability of the documentation needed for the
operation and maintenance of the application software as well as for end-user
training.
23.    Deliverables for this Phase include:
* Assistance to the Government in the installation and testing of the hardware and
software.
* Ensuring that the H/W and S/W supplied by the selected vendors meets the design
specifications.
* Ensuring that tested systems modules, including the modules that will be implemented
at the central, regional, and district offices are fully functional.
* User manuals and other technical documentation to enable the full operation and
maintenance of the systems.
* Training manuals for end-users.
* Training of sufficient local staff to a level which will enable them to operate and
maintain the systems and to provide necessary end-user support.



39
The latter three items are usually provided by the system vendors but the consultant will still be
responsible for ensuring quality and volume. In case the vendors fall short, the consultant will be
responsible for providing them.
VI.   Phase III: Replication of the System Across Remaining Ministries in Accra
and the Regional Capitals
24.    This phase will cover the replication of the systems to other ministries. Deliverables for
this phase would include:
* A replication plan and schedule for the system for all designated sites.
* A document (check list) detailing tasks that need to be undertaken for replication of the
system at a typical regional or district site.
* Working closely with the H/W, S/W vendor to ensure that the first five replications are
operational.
* Training of sufficient local staff capable of carrying out subsequent replications.
VII.  Level of Effort Estimates
25.   It is estimated that the project will require a total of about 75 man-months of effort to be
provided by the selected firm of consultants.
VIII. Background Information on Current Public Expenditure Management
26.   Laws and Regulations. The statutes and regulations relating to the financial
administration of public resources are found primarily in the following four documents:
*   The 1992 Constitution
*   The Financial Administration Decree, 1979
*   The Financial Administration Regulations, 1979
*   Departmental Accounting Instruction and Enabling Legislation of specific MDAs and
MMDAs.
27.    Budgetary Process. The Government of Ghana plans and executes its Budget in three
stages:
Stare 1: Planning and Preparation
*   MoF issues annual budget circular NOT later than six months before the end of each
financial year (FAR 30).
*   Budgets for MDAs are prepared by MDAs and submitted to the Ministry of Finance
by September 30.



40
Stage 2: Analysis andApproval
*   The Ministry of Finance holds Budget Hearings in order to coordinate the requests for
budgetary allocations between October I and November 15.
*   The Ministry of Finance presents the Budget to Parliament by November 30.
*   Parliament approves the Budget by December 31.
* Approved Budgets are communicated to MDAs and MMDAs by the Ministry of
Finance by January 31.
Stage 3: Implementation and Monitorini
*   Minister of Finance issues General Warrant or if deemed appropriate a Provisional
warrant authorizing disbursement of approved recurrent expenditure. (FAR 54 and
55) by Januarv 7.
*   CAG issues Treasurv Circular to MDAs and Treasuries by January 14.
*   MDAs issue Financial Encumbrances (FEs) to Treasuries on the basis of the
approved Budget for recurrent expenditure (FAR 56)
*   Specific warrant approved by the MEFP issued under authority of respective Sector
Minister or Head of Department to Controller and Accountant-General of
disbursement of capital expenditure (FAR 60).
*   CAG issues Expenditure Authorization (EA) for each capital expenditure.
*   Respective MDAs and MMDAs manage, monitor, and control expenditure. MOF
and CAGD direct and coordinate MDA expenditure management, monitoring and
control.
*   Ministrv of Finance and CAG control and monitor budgetary performance.
*   CAGD, MDAs, and MMDAs prepare monthly and annual financial statement and
reports on the public accounts of Ghana and on other government accounts to Cabinet
and Parliament no later than three months after the end of the financial year.
* Auditor-General audits public accounts and other government accounts and submits
report to Parliament no later than six months after the end of the financial year.
28.    Role of the CAG. The CAG is responsible for controlling and accounting for the
approved Budget. The CAG has 160 Treasury Offices serving all MDAs and MMDAs as follows:
*   13 Ministry Treasuries
*   2 Pensions Treasuries
*   1 10 District Treasuries
*   4 Headquarters Stations
*   33 Foreign Missions Stations
29.    Detailed financial activity reports called Cashbook Transcripts are received from these
Treasuries. There are basically four (4) types:
*   Payments (Salaries and Wages) Cashbook
*   Payments (Recurrent Expenditure) Cashbook
*   Payments (Capital Expenditure) Cashbook
*   Payments (Debt Servicing) Cashbook



41
* Other Payments (such as Trust Funds, Deposits, and Advances) Cashbook
* Receipts Cashbook
30.    Flow of Financial Information and Transactions. The flow of public financial
transactions is as follows:
*   Inputsfrom MDAs and MMDAs. These are provided manually in the form of
Forms, Local Purchase Orders, Stores/Service Receipt Advises, Payment Vouchers,
Warrants, and other forms. They are submitted to the Treasuries for processing and
receipt/payment and subsequently recorded in the books of accounts of the MDAs and
MMDAs.
*   Processing at the Local Treasury. The Treasuries undertake manual edits,
verifications, and validation. All financial transactions are entered in manual ledgers
(called F.E. jackets) and Cashbook transcripts are written weekly (manually) to
capture all financial transactions during the week. These are then sent to the CAG
Headquarters on a monthly basis for validation and consolidation.
-   Processing at CAG Headquarters. Verification, Validation, and Consolidation of
the Cashbook transcripts received is undertaken by the Data Examinations Section.
This process is manual. Verified and Validated inputs are input into the mainframe
computer system. Checks are undertaken to ensure integrity of data which had been
input. The Main Accounts are then obtained from the system.
*   Reconciliation. All Government of Ghana cheques are drawn on Bank of Ghana and
cleared through designated commercial banks where necessary. Each
Treasury/Finance Office undertakes its bank reconciliation by matching entries made
in cash books with statements received from servicing banks. Bank statements from
Bank of Ghana are also reconciled with returns of cheques issued from the
Treasury/finance offices at the CAGD Head Office.
31.    Volume of Transactions
*   Average monthly transactions, in addition to the computerized
payroll processing number
*  4,000 Financial Encumbrance (Adjustment)
*  20,000 Commitment Entries
* 34,000 Journal Entries
*  17,000 Cash Payments
A total of 75,000 financial transactions per month.
32.    Computer Hardware and Software. The Department currently owns an IBM mainframe
computer(IBM 9377 Model 80 running on the VSE/SP operating system computer). Other
operating system software's on it are CICS/VS and DL/I . The system is currently being used to
prepare the Government payroll and also the Government Accounts. The payroll system is in the
process of complete migration to a new IBM RISC machine. The Accounts System is in-house



42
developed. The main computer has in all sixty-four (64) dummy terminals and twenty (20)
personal computers connected directly to it.
33.   The IBM RISC/6000 runs on AIX UNIX and is networked to about 6 remote sites and
connected directly to about five (5) Ministries including Ghana Education Service. There are
about one hundred and twenty (120) personal computers and terminals connected to the system.
An Integrated Payroll/Personnel package is being installed on it. When this package is fully
operational, the payroll will be discontinued from the VSE System.






IMAGING
Report No: T-    6977 GH
Type: AM
-rA Al



