Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2925 GH
                         Development Credit Agreement
         (Public Financial Management Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated January 29, 1997
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2925 GH
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Association has received a letter of policy (the Policy
Letter), dated September 13, 1996, from the Borrower describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen
the performance of the Borrower's financial management systems (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Union and
the Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom (ODA)
grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately six million
seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000) to assist in financing
specific activities included in the Program on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the respective grant agreements (the Financing
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the European
Union and ODA, respectively; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is
          not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
          services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
          purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
          import of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
          ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
          the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
          VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a)
          the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
          Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to
          any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty
          days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after
          consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the
          Association will not be required to finance the Project's
          cost to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or
          (c) at any time the Association determines, with respect
          to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
          Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged
          in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary
          of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of
          such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely
          and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to
          remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would
          otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
          proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Associa-
          tion determines that the procurement of any contract to
          be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is incon-
          sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
          the Development Credit Agreement and establishes the
          amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which
          would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
          the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing
          Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
          from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice
          to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to
          make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the
          giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall
          be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to
in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work
programs, training programs, monitoring and performance indicators
and procedures to be used for the purposes of implementation of the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, in consulta-
tion with, and with the approval of, the Association, and such term
includes any schedules to the Implementation Plan;
Page  3
     (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated April 25, 1996 and May 29, 1996 between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (d)   "Steering Committee" means the interministerial committee
established by the Borrower in June 1995 with the responsibility of
monitoring Project implementation.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of
the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall there-
upon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing
May 1, 2007 and ending November 1, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2016 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
for three consecutive years the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by: (A)  requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the
first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b)
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period
of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
management and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
Page  6
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
               right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
               grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the
               Program shall have been suspended, canceled or
               terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
               of the agreement providing therefor.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
               of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
               such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Program
               are available to the Borrower from other sources on
               terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
               of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association
the Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance acceptable to
the Association; and
     (b)  the Borrower has appointed auditors for the Project accept-
able to the Association.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                Telex:
               ECONOMICON               2205 MIFAEPGH
Page  7
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Nana Effah-Apenteng
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated        % of
                           (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              850,000       100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            90% of local
                                            expenditures
(2)  Goods                  7,350,000       100% of foreign
                                            expenditures,
                                            100% of local
                                            expenditures
                                            (ex-factory cost)
                                            and 90% of
                                            local expenditures
                                            for other items
                                            procured locally
(3)  Consultants' services  2,800,000       100%
Page  8
     and studies
(4)  Training               1,500,000       100%
(5)  Refunding of Project     550,000       Amounts due
     Preparation Advance                    pursuant to
                                            Section 2.02 (a) of
                                            this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated            1,350,000
                           __________
          TOTAL            14,400,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, (b) services under contracts with consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000, (c) services with individual consultants under
contracts not exceeding $50,000, and (d) operating costs; all under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to enhance
the efficiency, accountability and transparency of its financial
management function.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such an objective:
Part A:   Budget Preparation System
1.   Development of a medium-term expenditure framework for the Borrower
as part of its budgetary process.
2.   Carrying out improvements in the preparation of the annual budget
through: (a) preparation of a model budget circular, (b) development
of computer software for budget preparation, (c) installation of the
budget software in all ministries, departments and agencies, (d)
implementation of an electronic transmission system for transmitting
proposals for the budget from the Ministries, departments and agencies
to the Ministry of Finance, and (e) preparation of a program for the
consolidation and preparation of budget drafts.
Part B:   Budget Implementation System
1.   Carrying out improvements in the implementation of the budget
through: (a) designing and implementing a budget classification system
consistent with the Chart of Accounts, (b) developing a computer
software for budget implementation, (c) designing and implementing
systems, processes and procedures for expenditure controls, and
Page  9
(d) implementing a computerized system for budget implementation.
2.   Carrying out a review of the legal framework for implementing
the reforms under the Project as well as to facilitate fiscal
decentralization.
Part C:   Accounting System
     Implementation of a modern accounting system to classify, record
and analyze governmental financial transactions, including the design
and implementation of a uniform Chart of Accounts.
Part D:   Cash Management System
     Carrying out improvements in the cash management system with a
view to minimizing the borrowing requirements of the Borrower.
Part E:   Aid and Debt Management System
     Strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower in the management
of aid and debt through, inter alia, the integration of the aid and
debt management system.
Part F:   Revenue Management System
     Carrying out improvements in the Borrower's tax administration
system with a view to improving revenue forecasting, collection and
reporting through: (a) redesign of the structure of tax administra-
tion, (b) development and introduction of a unique and common tax
payer identification number, (c) development and implementation of
a modified indirect tax regime, (d) review of the current system
for customs data management and implementation of a revised data
management system, and (e) strengthening of the internal audit units
of revenue collection agencies.
Part G:   Audit System
1.   Improvement of national audit standards, including specifications
for audit reports.
2.   Implementation of procedures and processes for effective internal
audits in all ministries and departments.
Part H:   Procurement Management System
     Carrying out a review of existing public procurement regulations
and practices with a view to developing a national procurement code,
and establishing mechanisms for monitoring compliance.
Part I:   Training and Office Improvements
1.   Training of staff of the various ministries, departments and
agencies in budget preparation, budget implementation, accounting,
cash management, aid and debt management, revenue management, audit
and procurement systems.
2.   Acquisition of equipment required for the implementation of the
Project by the ministries, departments and agencies.
3.   Renovation of offices for installation of computers.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
Page  10
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the follow-
ing provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract, and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Small items of goods, equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first contract under
national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
Page  11
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Associa-
tion review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of con-
sulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.   Project Coordination
     (a)   The Ministry of Finance shall coordinate all Project
implementation activities.
     (b)   The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
maintain the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee shall
continue to be responsible for: (i) establishing and monitoring
a timetable for the implementation of the Project, (ii) reviewing
and approving the procurement of goods, works and services, (iii)
coordinating and approving the various Project components so as
to ensure coherence and compatibility in design, management and
implementation; and (iv) making recommendations to the Ministry
of Finance on policy issues. The Steering Committee shall be
supported by a Project Implementation Team which shall be composed
of a Manager, a Finance Manager and Information Technology Manager,
all selected in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and designated counterpart staff of
the Borrower.
2.   Implementation Plan
     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in the carrying out of the Project, apply the guidelines and
procedures specified in the Implementation Plan and shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Plan or any
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.   Reviews
     The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indi-
cators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Page  12
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  not later than December 31 of each year, commencing on
December 31, 1997, undertake, in conjunction with the Association,
a joint annual review on all matters relating to the progress of
the Project and, in particular the progress achieved by the
Borrower during the current fiscal year, having regard to the
monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph;
     (c)  not later than one month prior to each annual review,
shall furnish to the Association for its comments a report in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request on the progress
of the Project;
     (d)  following each annual review, act promptly and diligently
in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy
any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or
to implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
     (e)  promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures
necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Asso-
ciation, a workshop for the launching of the Project implementation,
which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement pro-
cedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the
Project.
4.   Midterm Review
     (a)  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1999, carry
out jointly with the Association a midterm review of the progress made
in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm
Review). This would be done in lieu of the annual review for the third
year referred to in paragraph 3 above.
     The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
          (i)  an assessment of the Borrower's implementation of the
               Program;
         (ii)  progress in integrating Program components into a
               cohesive set of actions;
        (iii)  an assessment of the capacity of the various ministries
               and departments in carrying out Project activities; and
         (iv)  a review of arrangements for meeting recurrent costs.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, not later than one month prior to the
Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describ-
ing the status of implementation of each component of the Project and
a summary report of Project implementation generally.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, not later than one month after the Mid-
term Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association,
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the
findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action
program.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Page  13
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
5,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
               Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
               such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
               and as shall have been shown by said documents and
               other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
Page  14
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
