                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 33764-CO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-52531 FSLT-72580)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

             SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                           November 10, 2005




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective November 9, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Colombia Pesos
                                      US$ 1 = 2,280.90 COP

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AML/CTF      Anti-money laundering / Countering of terrorist financing
BANCAFE      Banco Cafetero (State-owned Bank)
BANCOLDEX    Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (State Export Bank)
BECH         Bancos Especializados en Crédito Hipotecario (Mortgage Banks)
BR           Banco de la República (Central Bank of Colombia)
CAMEL        Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity (Bank supervision risk rating model)
CAV          Corporación de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings & Loan Banks)
CISA         Central de Inversiones, S.A. (Government Asset Management Agency)
CONPES       Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social (Economic Policy Council)
DANE         Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (Statistics Agency)
DGCP         Dirección General de Crédito Público (Public Debt Office of MoF)
DIAN         Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacional (Tax and Customs Agency)
DTF          Depósitos a Término Fijo (Interest rate on time deposits)
DTN          Dirección del Tesoro Nacional (National Treasury in Ministry of Finance)
FEN          Financiera Energética Nacional (Government Energy Sector Bank)
FINAGRO      Fondo para Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario (Financing Fund for the
             Agricultural Sector)
FINDETER     Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (Municipal Financing Second Tier Bank)
FIs          Financial Institutions (supervised by the Banking Superintendency)
FOGAFIN      Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones Financieras (Deposit Insurance Agency)
FRECH        Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilización de la Cartera Hipotecaria (Reserve Fund for the
             Stabilization of the Mortgage Portfolio)
FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
IAIS         International Association of Insurance Supervisors
IFI          Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Development Bank)
MBS          Mortgage Backed Securities
MOF          Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
PDR          Problem Debt Restructuring
PFSAL I      First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, or First Loan
RP/REPO      Repurchase Market / Repurchase Operation
SARC         Sistema de Administración Riesgos de Crédito (Credit Risk Management System)
SB           Superintendencia Bancaria (Superintendency of Banks)
SEARS        Sistema Especial de Análisis de Riesgos de Seguro
             (Insurance Risk Management System)
SEN          Sistema Electrónico de Negociación (Electronic Trading System - Gov't Debt)
SV           Superintendencia de Valores (Securities Superintendency)
TES          Títulos de Tesorería (Treasury Bills/Notes)
UIAF         Unidad de Inteligencia y Análisis Financiero (Financial Intelligence and Análisis Unit)
UPAC         Unidad de Poder Adquisitivo Constante (Mortgage Price Index)
UVR          Unidad de Valor Real (Index based on real value of mortgages)
VAR          Value at Risk
VIS          Vivienda de Interés Social (Social Priority Housing)

                 Vice President:  Pamela Cox
              Country Director    Isabel M. Guerrero
                Sector Director   Makhtar Diop
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Constantinos A. Stephanou

                                         COLOMBIA
                      Colombia Programmatic Financial Sector Loan II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          13
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            27
6. Sustainability                                                                29
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 30
8. Lessons Learned                                                               31
9. Partner Comments                                                              32
10. Additional Information                                                       37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             40
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             44
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             45
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            49
Annex 8. Policy Matrix for the Programmatic FSAL Operations                      51

Project ID: P082597                                                  Project Name: Colombia Programmatic Financial Sector
                                                                     Loan II
Team Leader: Constantinos A. Stephanou                               TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 10, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Colombia Programmatic Financial Sector Loan II L/C/TF Number: TF-52531; FSLT-72580
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Capital markets (30%); Banking (20%); Housing finance and real
                            estate markets (20%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and
                            contractual savings (20%); Central government administration
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                            privatization (S); Debt management and fiscal substainability (S);
                            Access to urban services and housing (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/12/2004                                     Effective: 10/04/2004                10/04/2004
     Appraisal: 08/18/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/23/2004                                      Closing: 03/31/2005                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Colombia/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      Banking Superintendency, Deposit Insurance Agency, Securities Superintendency

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Director:                Makhtar K. Diop                                Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Constantinos A. Stephanou                      John Pollner
ICR Primary Author:             Manuel Lasaga (consultant);
                                Constantinos A. Stephanou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Introduction

1.       This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the second of two Programmatic
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan operations (henceforth known as the Program) in support of
comprehensive sector reforms that were embarked upon by the Government of Colombia to
overcome the difficulties resulting from the 1998-99 banking crisis and to achieve sound growth of the
financial system. The first Loan (PFSAL I) of US$150 million was disbursed on June 30, 2003, and the
ICR was submitted on December 22, 2003. The second Loan (PFSAL II) of US$100 million was made
effective and was disbursed on October 4, 2004.

2.       This ICR presents an evaluation of PFSAL II as well as an assessment of the outcome of the
overall Program. The analysis of objectives below reviews the overall Program objectives and each one of
its five components. In the analysis of design, this ICR reviews the overall Program based on the
cumulative experience through the second Operation, and then addresses the specific design features of
PFSAL II. The Outcomes section first reviews the overall outcomes in the areas supported by the five
Program components, and then evaluates the outcomes attributable to PFSAL II. The Output section
addresses both PFSAL I and PFSAL II, with a greater emphasis on the latter. The principal performance
ratings shown above and discussed in later sections only cover PFSAL II. The lessons learned, as well as
the implementing agency (Colombian Ministry of Finance or MoF) comments, reflect the experience of the
overall Program in general and of PFSAL II in particular.

3.       The Program has supported a comprehensive and relatively complex set of financial sector
reforms. In line with the Bank's overall mission, these reforms have supported financial development
objectives both indirectly (i.e. a stronger prudential framework that reduces the incidence and severity of
costly banking crises) and directly (i.e. greater access to finance via support of non-bank financial
intermediation). The ICR provides a broad background to the macroeconomic and financial sector context
at the time of the Program's origination and prior to PFSAL II (see below), and analyzes in detail the
objectives, outputs and outcomes for each of the five distinct components. The Policy Matrix for the entire
Program is shown in Annex 8.

Development Objectives of the Program

4.       The overall objective of the Program was to support comprehensive post-crisis financial
sector reforms that were embarked upon by the Government of Colombia to overcome the difficulties
resulting from the 1998-99 crisis and to achieve sound growth of the financial system. Both the
banking crisis in 1998-1999 and the government securities (Títulos de Tesorería or TES) market crisis in
August 2002 pointed to pressure points in the financial system and underscored the need for better risk
management tools and greater diversification of financial instruments, as well as for a bigger role of
non-bank financial intermediaries. The specific objectives of the overall Program were:
    a. to strengthen the government's capacity to manage and mitigate weaknesses in the banking system
    through an improved legal and regulatory framework and the implementation of modern risk
    management approaches to cushion future losses;
    b. to complete the clean up of the banking system as a result of the 1998-2001 crisis by providing
    mechanisms to dispose of assets which might represent contingent liabilities of the State, and to
    upgrade existing mechanisms for bank resolution;



                                                     - 2 -

    c. to strengthen and diversify the participation of non-bank financial intermediaries in the domestic
    money market, in housing finance, insurance services, trust and pension services and issuance and
    trading of securities, including the government's issuance of debt securities.

5.       The achievement of the first objective was based on the reinforcement of existing financial
legislation to incorporate better standards to corporate accountability, governance and risk
management as key elements in the regulatory framework. A new financial system law would enable the
supervisory agencies to establish more effective rules and regulations that would strengthen banking
practices for sound growth as well as implementing modern risk management tools for financial system
participants. The new regulatory standards focus on early detection in order to implement corrective actions
and thus mitigate systemic weaknesses.

6.       In support of the second objective, the Government was to implement measures to dispose of
the financial system's loans and other assets remaining from earlier bank interventions, while making
collateral liquidation procedures and future bank resolution processes more agile and effective. In
addition, the remaining intervened banks were expected to be divested and the largest public second-tier
problem bank to be wound down. Through the achievement of this objective, the Government intended to
reduce its fiscal obligations and contingent liabilities which had emanated from the support it had provided
to financial institutions as well as its direct stake in "officialized" banks which it needed to manage
following earlier interventions.

7.       The third objective was to be supported by several initiatives to promote and strengthen
sound non-bank financial intermediation. These included the development of market risk hedging
mechanisms for the mortgage sector and micro finance instruments, a liquid securitization market for
primary residential mortgages, the upgrading of capital adequacy standards in the insurance sector, the
deepening of the government securities market including the development of unbiased securities valuation
methodologies and more effective government debt management policies, and the reform of securities
legislation to promote a more agile development of the local capital market.

Macroeconomic Context

8.       At the time of the Program's preparation in early 2003, Colombia was beginning to recover
from its worst recession in over sixty years, although it remained vulnerable to external shocks. In
particular, macroeconomic performance was expected to continue to improve ­ driven primarily by a
recovery of the export sector ­ during the period of the Program, raising real GDP growth rate from a
lackluster below 2 percent growth experienced over the previous two years (see Selected Economic
Indicators table in section 10). However, it was anticipated that it would take longer for the economy to
achieve its full growth potential. During the pre-crisis period of 1983-1997, real GDP growth had averaged
4.1 percent per annum, compared to the projected growth rate of 3 percent during the implementation of the
Program covering 2003-2006. In addition, external vulnerability had increased as a result of a surge in
domestic violence and uncertainty regarding the spread of internal conflict, a worsening of market
sentiment towards Latin America, political problems in Venezuela (the second largest market for
Colombia's non-traditional exports) and an uncertain outlook for the US economy (Colombia's main trading
partner). This was reflected in the significant deterioration of Colombia's sovereign debt spreads and
currency in 2002, which added to the country's external debt service burden.

9.       The principal risk to the country's macroeconomic stability at that time, and thus to the
sustainability of financial sector reforms, remained the large fiscal deficits and the high burden of



                                                      - 3 -

public sector debt. Total public debt had almost doubled over the previous five years as a result of the
combination of exchange rate depreciation and fiscal liabilities arising from the 1998 banking crisis, and
had reached 60 percent of GDP by 2002. Assuming full implementation of the macroeconomic reform
package, it was expected that the overall public sector deficit would fall from close to 4.0 percent of GDP
in 2002, to between 2.0 - 2.5 percent during 2004-2005. In support of fiscal adjustment efforts, an IMF
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) was approved in January 2003 for a two year period. By contrast, deft
management of monetary policy by the Central Bank (Banco de la Republica or BR) had facilitated a
noticeable decline in inflation from 20.9 percent in 1995 to 7 percent in 2002.

10.      Colombia's macroeconomic prospects had improved considerably by the time of PFSAL II
preparation in late 2004. The economy had grown above expectations in 2003 reaching 4 percent,
supported by a pick-up in global economic activity. Unemployment eased to its lowest level since the crisis,
while strong capital inflows led to an appreciation of the peso and investor confidence remained high. The
government continued to make progress on fiscal adjustment and met the revised target under the SBA; the
combined public sector deficit narrowed to 2.7 percent of GDP, down from 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002.
Financing of this deficit was facilitated by improvements in the terms on which the government could
access international capital markets, with the coupon rates of Colombian dollar denominated bonds coming
down from a peak of 11.75 percent in mid-2002 to 8.125 percent for a twenty-year bond issuance in early
2004. Thus the economic environment and future prospects at the time of the second Operation were more
favorable for the implementation of financial sector reforms.

Status of the Financial System

11.      Following a period of aggressive expansion in the early 1990's, the Colombian financial
system entered a period of substantial stress in 1998. The adverse effects of overextension of credit were
accentuated by turbulence in global financial markets following the Asian crisis and the Russian debt
default. At the same time, domestic interest rates jumped in 1998 to very high levels as authorities
attempted to defend the foreign exchange rate band against speculators, which intensified credit woes in the
financial system. Both credit quality problems and excessive interest rate risk contributed to the weakening
of the banking system. The increasing liquidity problems faced by several credit institutions eventually led
to lack of compliance with minimum reserve requirements and to their intervention by the authorities.

12.      Two particularly vulnerable components of the banking system at that time were the
Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda (CAVs, or Housing Finance Banks) and the financial
cooperatives. The CAVs, later renamed Bancos Especializados en Crédito Hipotecario (BECHs) under
the new banking law in 2003, specialized in residential mortgage lending and had built up a sizeable
interest rate imbalance between their deposit liabilities that paid a nominal peso rate of interest and their
mortgage loans that were indexed to the inflation rate through the UPAC (Unidad de Poder Adquisitivo
Constante) mortgage price index. The dramatic increase in deposit interest rates in 1998 had led the
government to modify the UPAC formula to incorporate both changes in interest rates and in inflation in
the determination of the value of the UPAC index applied to mortgage loans. Colombia's Constitutional
Court subsequently ruled against the change in the indexation mechanism and instructed banks to restate
the value of mortgage loans back to the time when the original change to the UPAC index was made,
applying only the inflation index to the newly named UVR (Unidad de Valor Real) index. The downward
adjustment to the value of the banks' mortgage loans that this caused further exacerbated loan portfolio
problems that were already severe after debtor defaults from rising indexed interest rates.




                                                     - 4 -

13.      Facing the risk of a broader systemic crisis and a run on deposits, the Government embarked
on a series of economic emergency measures to address problems in the financial sector. These
measures can be conceptually divided into those aiming primarily to restore the health of the system
(financial sector support operations) and those that provided support to debtors (relief or "alivios" and
restructuring programs). The measures attempted to bring a balance between the competing interests and
problems of the involved parties, and were mainly carried out by the deposit insurance and bank
restructuring agency Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones Financieras (FOGAFIN). In sum, the
government provided roughly the equivalent of 10 percent of 1999's GDP (though, as discussed later, most
of this was later recovered) in support of all these initiatives to recover from the financial sector crisis.
These resources were provided through budgetary allocations and by resources from the deposit insurance
fund administered by FOGAFIN.

14.      Financial sector support consisted of private and public sector bank cleanup and
recapitalization operations. In the case of private banks (Resolutions 6/99 and 11/99), FOGAFIN
provided a recapitalization line to credit institutions under certain preconditions relating to portfolio
clean-up, partial recapitalization by their shareholders (to ensure burden sharing and incentive alignment)
and the successful adoption of an adjustment plan and a new management contract. In addition to the
recapitalization line, FOGAFIN lent funds to the shareholders of some private banks ("capital garantía")
so that they could participate in the required recapitalization. Later measures included liquidity support
operations in the form of bond purchases and credit portfolio repurchase agreements, as well as the
extension of FOGAFIN recapitalization line, subject to similar conditions, to BECHs (Resolution 6/01). A
detailed review of public sector banks also led to the decision to liquidate or restructure and eventually
privatize most of these entities, with the exception of BANCO AGRARIO, which was to remain active in
serving the largely underserved rural communities where the private sector could not efficiently provide
financial services. FOGAFIN assumed direct control of public banks in order to dispose of unproductive
assets, restructure, sell or liquidate these entities, and of those private ones deemed necessary to be
"officialized" as part of the recapitalization process.

15.      In addition to promoting the use of loan restructuring agreements for viable enterprises (Law
550/99), debtor relief primarily focused on mortgage borrowers. Following the adoption of Decree
2331 in November 1998, relief to the most vulnerable groups affected by the crisis ­ mainly low income
mortgage borrowers and depositors in the financial cooperatives system ­ was provided by FOGAFIN in
two phases. Alivios 1 provided credit at subsidized rates to mortgage debtors in order to reduce their debt
levels with the financial institutions. Alivios 2 (Decree 688 of April 1999) constituted an extension and
expansion of the first phase.

16.      During the same period, the Superintendencia Bancaria (SB) also undertook a host of
measures to strengthen the financial system. Resolutions 39 and 44 of 1999 changed the credit
classification rules in order to strengthen the loan loss provisioning regime for both performing and
foreclosed assets, with the aim of making them comparable to international norms by 2002. In addition, it
strengthened the on-site supervision process and initiated supervision on a consolidated level. Moreover, as
a result of Law 510 that was passed in August 1999, minimum capital standards were established and early
warning indicators were introduced to detect capital problems and allow the adoption of recovery programs
or other appropriate measures.

17.      As a result of the crisis, the banking industry shrunk considerably due to the intervention of a
number of insolvent banks and the merger of weaker institutions. As many as 35 entities were
intervened for liquidation between 1998 and 2003, and another 20 were voluntarily liquidated by their



                                                      - 5 -

shareholders. Liquidation and merger activity during that period contributed to the significant reduction
(from 148 to 64) in the number of financial institutions covered by FOGAFIN's deposit insurance
mechanism. The overall size of assets of the banking industry also shrunk, reaching 44 percent of GDP in
2002 compared to 57 percent in 1998; this was also reflected in the significant reduction in financial
intermediation, with gross loans plummeting from 38 percent to 25 percent of GDP over that period (see
Tables on Colombian Banking System in section 10).

18.      Although a systemic financial collapse had been averted, the health of the banking system
remained weak at the time of the Program's preparation. In particular, there was concern that the
persistence of adverse economic conditions would not allow banks to repay FOGAFIN, thereby forcing the
State to take them over and incur greater fiscal liabilities. There were also significant weaknesses remaining
in the housing finance sector where non-performing loans continued to loom large (especially in
state-controlled entities and in private banks' mortgage portfolios), while profitability and capital strength
of most institutions was relatively weak. In addition, during 2002, the financial system was jolted once
again by volatility in the government securities (TES) market, which exposed a weak public debt
management process, an unreliable debt valuation mechanism, and an over-exposure to government debt by
banks, pension and investment funds. This episode of market illiquidity and vulnerability showed how
money market weaknesses could hinder not only the development of the public debt markets but also the
stability of the financial system. Banks were forced to re-classify some of the TES holdings from the
trading portfolio, which is subject to daily marking-to-market, to the held-to-maturity portfolio in order to
reduce volatility in earnings. In response to the TES crisis, the authorities set several key priorities for the
improvement of market liquidity and the reduction of financial market risk, which were incorporated into
the Program.

19.      The health of the banking system had considerably improved by the time of PFSAL II
preparation in 2004. After a long period of shrinkage, banking system size (assets, loans and deposits to
GDP) began to recover during that year, while standard financial performance indicators (see Tables on
Colombian Banking System in section 10) of solvency, profitability, efficiency and asset quality
significantly improved. This reflected a combination of factors, such as the partial resumption of economic
growth, a stable net interest margin in spite of declining interest rates, as well as the recapitalization and
exit and/or restructuring of significant non-performing assets that had taken place in previous years. As a
result, the financial reforms underpinning PFSAL II placed greater emphasis on consolidating recent
achievements and expanding them to include non-bank financial institutions and capital markets.

Assessment of Development Objectives

20.      The objectives of the Program were comprehensive and addressed major areas for
improvement. The two Operations provided a critical mass of support for the Government's medium-term
strategic framework for reforms in the financial sector. The goal of upgrading the legal and regulatory
framework for banking and capital markets was essential to mitigate existing weaknesses in the financial
system. The remaining problems from the 1998-99 crisis still posed a challenge to the sustainable recovery
of BECHs, and the existing state-owned banks represented a potentially growing fiscal liability. Both of
these areas were identified and addressed successfully by the Program. The objective of strengthening
capital and debt markets was particularly important in light of the vulnerabilities in existing risk
management practices that were exposed by the mini-TES crisis of 2002.

21.      The Program was also closely linked to the Bank's existing country dialogue. As explained in
the ICR for PFSAL I, the Program was closely linked to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy or CAS



                                                      - 6 -

(see "Colombia ­ Country Assistance Strategy", World Bank Report No. 25129-CO, December 24, 2002).
In consolidating the reforms of the financial sector, the CAS had identified the following components: clean
up of the 1999 banking crisis, resolving the weaknesses in the housing finance sector, addressing the risks
associated with asset-liability mismatches, strengthening of the anti-money laundering regime, downsizing
the role of the public sector in the financial sector, expansion of housing finance, reform of the pension
system and creation of a deeper, more liquid capital market. These objectives also coincided with the
government's agenda for the financial sector. The Program was also preceded by a successful FSAL during
1999-2000 that had helped set the stage for closer collaboration with the Government in financial sector
reforms (see "ICR for Colombia FSAL", World Bank, December 2002). The measures supported by the
FSAL had focused on three key areas: (i) intervention, liquidity and capital support for weak institutions
during the financial crisis; (ii) strengthening of capital and solvency standards; and (iii) implementation of
early corrective actions by the SB and FOGAFIN to avert an eventual failure of an institution.

22.      The programmatic approach provided much-needed flexibility in conditionality design. A
programmatic approach was adopted because of its flexibility, particularly with respect to the final design
of the PFSAL II. The first Operation focused on institutional reforms with greater attention paid to the
banking system, while the second focused on the implementation of those reforms and the upgrading of the
legal framework of the securities market. At the time of Program design, the timing of these reforms and
their implementation was not predictable. The components included in the two Operations (see below) were
those considered to be realistically identifiable at that time.

23.      Principal risks to the Program were also identified and overcome. As specified in the Program
Document, the principal risks to the Program were: (i) the possibility of adverse external economic shocks;
(ii) a low or negative growth scenario during implementation of the Program; (iii) a higher than expected
fiscal deficit and its impact on the government debt market; and (iv) a deterioration in internal conflict that
would contribute to greater fiscal stress as well as to crippling the reform process. While these factors were
considered to weigh negatively on the potential outcome, strong Government commitment to the reforms,
plus a positive track record in handling the crisis to-date, served to quell negative sentiment regarding an
ambitious financial sector Program. In addition, projected economic growth did pose some concerns since it
was barely sufficient to trigger a rebound in the financial system and contribute to a noticeable reduction in
poverty levels. Once again, this factor argued in favor of a more conservative approach in terms of
Program outputs. The risk area with highest uncertainty was the evolution of the internal security situation
and its management by the Government. Thus the level of complexity of the Program and the time-bound
outcome expectations needed to be structured with keen sensitivity to the obstacles posed by the ongoing
internal conflict.

24.      The design of PFSAL II was also consistent with Program objectives, and built on the
accomplishments of the first operation while addressing areas that needed more attention. In framing
the strategy for the second operation, the Bank incorporated the findings of a Stocktaking Report, jointly
prepared by the Government and the Bank (see "The Recovery of Colombia's Financial System and
Remaining Vulnerabilities", World Bank and Colombia's Ministry of Finance, July 2004). PFSAL II
focused more attention on the development of capital markets and the implementation of risk management
practices in non-bank financial institutions such as the trust and pension industries, while continuing to
support important reforms associated with the Program's banking system objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Program objectives remained unchanged.



                                                       - 7 -

3.3 Original Components:
25.      In addition to the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy environment, there were five
principal components of the Program (see Policy Matrix in Annex 8):

I. Bank Regulation and Resolution
·        Enactment and implementation of the new Financial System Law (Law 795/2003) to ensure
sustainability of the financial system by upgrading the banking regulatory, supervisory and institutional
framework;
·        Implementation of the new Financial System Law to improve the effectiveness of banking
resolution procedures by upgrading the bank resolution and deposit insurance operational framework;
·        Privatization and winding down of State-owned banks.

II. Housing Finance
·        Strengthening the housing finance sector and expanding the mortgage market by upgrading the
regulatory/operational framework of the sector and improving access to credit through the creation of new
financial risk management instruments and promoting the availability of longer term funding.

III. Non-bank Financial Institutions
·        Strengthening the regulatory framework and financial soundness of the insurance, trust and pension
industries by upgrading the regulatory framework for risk management and capital adequacy for non-bank
financial institutions.

IV. Capital Markets
·        Modernization of the legislative framework for the securities market by upgrading the regulatory
framework for the governance, transparency, operations and liquidity of the market.

V. The Government Debt and Money Markets
·        Upgrading the policy and operational framework for the government securities market by
implementing a public debt issuance strategy to improve the functioning and development of referential
rates of the market.

Design of Component I: Bank Regulation and Resolution

26.      The banking regulation and resolution component was centered on reform of the banking
system law to strengthen risk-based supervision and to make banking resolution procedures more
effective. PFSAL I was anchored in the passage of the new financial system Law 795 in 2003 and the
development of appropriate rules and regulations to enhance management practices, asset quality, earnings
performance, and liquidity of financial intermediaries, while introducing new methodologies for measuring
and managing credit risk, interest rate risk, and other market risks. With respect to corporate governance,
the Law established new accountability standards starting with the independence of the Board of Directors,
the prevention of conflicts of interest, and the enhancement of the existing code of conduct. Under the first
loan, the anti-money laundering regime was also substantially strengthened through the MoF's Financial
Analysis and Intelligence Unit (UIAF). A new problem bank resolution tool involving a progressive
carve-out of productive assets from failing banks was developed, with FOGAFIN authorized to provide
credit guarantees on the performance of those assets in order to enhance their marketability to other banks
and investors. FOGAFIN was also authorized to swap mortgage-backed securities (MBS) for bonds under
a specialized facility in order to enhance the liquidity of such instruments.




                                                       - 8 -

27.      With regards to bank regulation, PFSAL II focused primarily on the implementation of
institutional reforms brought about by the passage of Law 795-2003. The SB developed a
CAMEL-based (Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity) supervisory risk rating model. Basel
II-oriented credit risk management practices were instituted in the form of a supervisory framework (
Sistema de Administración de Riesgos de Crédito or SARC) that promoted better risk governance and
allowed internal bank credit risk models to statistically determine expected loan losses based on default
probabilities. In addition, the SB implemented a comprehensive value-at-risk methodology to incorporate
market risks in the trading book and interest rate risk in the banking book into the determination of
regulatory capital. While Colombia's SARC framework was not originally intended to be aligned to Basel
II, it is one of the few countries in the region that has pushed the envelope in terms of credit risk
measurement and management sophistication. In addition to SARC and in order to ensure the adequacy of
human and technical resources to implement this reform, the SB had developed an action plan documenting
the budgetary, personnel, and computing resources required, as well as the implied timelines to complete
the review and approval process of each bank's credit risk model. This initiative was strongly endorsed by
the Bank and was established as a trigger measure for PFSAL II. In addition, the Bank highlighted two
areas of reform under PFSAL II that involved the introduction of guidelines for disciplinary rules based on
risk considerations, including graduated levels of sanctions for varying breaches of regulatory compliance
and the issuance of new norms for the measurement of risks associated with financial groups.

28.      This component also sought to bring the winding down process for officialized banks to a
close in order to further enhance the role of the private sector in financial intermediation. The key
remaining banks at the time of PFSAL I were BANCAFE and GRANAHORRAR. In addition, the
Government was considering a strategy to consolidate some of the second tier banks in order to reduce the
presence of State banking institutions. An immediate goal for the first Operation was to begin the process
of privatizing BANCAFE, while further consolidation in the State-owned second-tier banking sector was
accomplished through the transfer of a portion of the industrial development bank's (INSTITUTO DE
FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL or IFI) assets and liabilities to BANCOLDEX, the export bank, and liquidation
of the rest. Under PFSAL II and given the failed attempt to auction BANCAFE in 2004 (see section on
outcomes), the government via FOGAFIN issued an alternative action plan for the eventual sale of
BANCAFE and GRANAHORRAR (which was subsequently privatized on 31 October 2005) and to
complete the liquidation of IFI.

Design of Component II: Housing Finance

29.      The housing finance component supported reforms to strengthen the mortgage market that
had been severely weakened by the crisis in 1998-1999. Under PFSAL I, foreclosure proceedings were
streamlined via the enactment of Law 794-2003. Various hedging and liquidity mechanisms were developed
to protect both borrowers and financial institutions from interest rate and inflation risks associated with the
indexed mortgage instruments. A FOGAFIN inflation swap scheme was developed to allow borrowers who
received UVR-indexed mortgage loans to swap these into fixed-rate peso loans. This supported the banks'
issuance of UVR-indexed residential mortgages even when borrowers preferred a fixed rate loan, by
allowing the borrowers to swap those mortgages into a fixed rate loan. At the same time, a Central Bank
swap facility (Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilización de la Cartera Hipotecaria or FRECH), later
modified to an options facility, was offered to banks in order to reduce their interest rate mismatch and
hedge rising interest rates. This need arose from the fact that most housing loans are indexed to inflation
using the UVR index, while banks usually pay a nominal peso interest rate on their time deposits (DTF or
Depósitos a Término Fijo). The short duration of these deposits imply that the banks' liabilities are being
re-priced more frequently than mortgages that are priced at a fixed spread over the UVR index for the



                                                     - 9 -

entire term of the loan; as a result, banks (and especially mortgage banks) are vulnerable to a jump in
nominal interest rates that would create an unfavorable interest rate gap between their liabilities and assets.
Finally, a separate initiative to allow the Central Bank to accept MBS in a repo operation in lieu of
government securities was aimed at increasing the liquidity of the secondary mortgage bond market.

30.     The housing finance component in PFSAL II focused on the development of micro-housing
credit and on improving the regulations dealing with risk classification of multi-tiered MBS
instruments and the regulatory capital requirements of securitization companies. With respect to
micro-housing finance, Law 795-2003 had improved access by banks to this market and to the housing
lease market. In PFSAL II, the government obtained a voluntary agreement from commercial banks to
allocate a small portion of their portfolio funding towards this sector. Alternatively, the banks could
participate in the purchase of bonds issued by the second-tier municipal financing bank Financiera de
Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER), which would subsequently on-lend those funds for microhousing
finance purposes. To complement the FINDETER program and increase private bank participation, the
government's National Guarantee Fund (FNG) implemented a credit insurance program for loans given to
lower income communities. With the evolution of the mortgage securitization market, the SB progressed in
developing a sound regulatory framework for these instruments while preventing (but not completely
eliminating) regulatory arbitrage in their usage. In this regard, an important change to the capital adequacy
framework was the recognition of the existence of different levels of credit risk in different tranches of a
securitization, and the application of Basel II-like capital adequacy rules for each tranche based on its
respective credit rating. The Superintendencia de Valores (SV) also introduced a risk-based capital
regulation to cover the credit and market risks incurred by securitization companies.

Design of Component III: Non-bank Financial Institutions

31.     In order the support the diversification of their activities, the non-bank financial institutions
component focused on strengthening transparency and risk management. PFSAL I dealt with the
insurance industry and the implementation of a system for analysis and reporting of insurance risks and
linking these to solvency margins and technical reserve requirements by line of business. PFSAL II
addressed the pension and trust industries, emphasizing disclosure of market risks of all types of investment
portfolios and reform of rules concerning pension fund investments in foreign securities and in related
parties.

Design of Component IV: Capital Markets

32.     The draft Securities Law formed the cornerstone of the capital markets component, and its
preparation and submission to Congress was part of the agenda for PFSAL II. Under PFSAL I, the
SB and SV issued uniform criteria for the valuation of private sector fixed income securities held by banks,
non-bank financial institutions and securities firms, and agreed to carry out joint supervision and
surveillance of securities brokers and dealers. Under PFSAL II, a draft Securities Law was presented to
Congress to enhance the legal framework of the securities markets by establishing norms for corporate
governance, defining SV supervisory powers, custody, clearance and settlement regulations, regulation of
intermediaries, qualifying professional criteria for market participants/brokers, shareholder protection,
harmonization of mutual funds regulations, and new standards for the valuation of securities. The SV also
issued new norms for mutual funds' public information disclosure requirements, while new reporting
requirements by the SB and SV incorporating both credit risk and market risk ratings of investment funds
were implemented. Finally, new regulations were also issued for the daily mark-to-market valuation of
mutual funds' portfolios.



                                                     - 10 -

Design of Component V: The Government Debt and Money Markets

33.       This component supported government debt and money market development, and fostered
better risk management practices by market participants. Under PFSAL I, the MoF strengthened the
obligations of primary dealers in their role as market makers, while the SV regulated the valuation of
domestic treasury securities. Under PFSAL II, a debt issuance strategy was established with the support of
a high-level public debt policy committee, while additional steps were taken to improve liquidity and market
price formation in the short end of the public zero risk yield curve, to be achieved via a new issuance
program that relied on weekly 90-day TES auctions of progressively greater size.

Assessment of Program Components

34.       The bank regulation and resolution component was consistent with and aligned well to the
Program objectives. Passage of a new financial system law (Law 795 in 2003) and its implementation
sought to strengthen bank regulation and enhance the supervisory powers of SB. While there were no
imminent threats of bank failures, the development of an additional bank resolution instrument was
essential for the long-term sustainability of the banking system and to prevent future build up of fiscal
liabilities. The winding down and eventual sale of the three large state-owned banks was expected to reduce
future government liabilities while contributing to greater efficiency of financial intermediation. However, it
is worth noting that one source of latent risk in the banking system, i.e. the absence of fully consolidated
supervisory framework over the financial conglomerates that dominate Colombia's financial system, was
not fully addressed by the reforms in the bank regulation and resolution component. This was a reflection
of Colombia's financial system condition priorities and political economy considerations at the time,
although some useful steps have been made in that direction (see section on Outcomes).

35.       The design of the housing finance component was more effective at addressing mortgage
market stability issues than constraints to access to housing credit. Mortgage securitizations,
streamlined foreclosure-related judicial proceedings and the inflation and interest rate hedges sought to
enable banks (particularly BECHs) to improve the quality of their loan portfolio, reduce their interest rate
risk and increase profitability. However, while the leasing and micro-housing finance sub-component was a
step in the right direction, the goal of offering greater access to financial services by the underserved
sectors might have benefited from more support directly targeted at alleviating the limited availability of
resources for all types of micro-finance activities, particularly when comparing Colombia to other countries
in the region. Another reason for the inability to ­ in retrospect ­ sufficiently address housing credit
constraints also stemmed from political economy considerations (i.e. the ceiling on mortgage rates that was
set by the Constitutional Court) and limited risk tolerance of both mortgage lenders and debtors brought
about by the still fresh memories of the financial crisis in 1998-1999.

36.       The non-bank financial institutions component likewise focused more on financial stability
issues than in directly promoting financial deepening. The design of the insurance sub-component
addressed the need to establish solvency margins and technical reserve requirements, but the capacity of
supervisors or the industry itself to apply these new risk-sensitive rules was not ­ in retrospect ­
sufficiently considered. With respect to the trust and pension sub-component, the implementation of
Value-at-Risk (VAR) methodologies and of a consistent mandatory reporting for market risks in investment
portfolios was a positive and non-trivial task: as shown in the box below, the diversity in composition and
oversight responsibility of investment funds in Colombia underscores the complexity of efficiently applying
these norms.



                                                     - 11 -

                                           Colombia: Investment Funds Industry

                 I.        Mandatory Investment Funds
                           1.   Social Security Fund
                           2.   Individual Capitalization Funds (AFPs) (SB)

                 II.       Non-Mandatory Investment Funds
                           A.   Trust Funds (SB)
                                      -    Voluntary Pension Funds
                                      -    Ordinary Funds
                                      -    Special Purpose Funds
                           B.   Stock Funds (SV)
                           C.   Pension Fund Companies (SV)
                           D.   Mutual Funds (special purpose funds offered by employers)

                 Note: SB and SV in parentheses denotes supervisory agency.




37.     The capital markets component of the program was well focused on long-term institutional
development. The key institutional component was the enhancement of the legal framework for the
securities market. A more short-term goal was to achieve better coordination between SB and SV in their
supervisory activities in areas of overlap, particularly since each supervisory agency had oversight
responsibilities over different parts of the investment funds industry. Following the passage of the new
Securities Law, which was supported by PFSAL II, the Colombian government made the decision to merge
the two supervisory agencies, an initiative that had not been contemplated at the time of Program design
and which is expected to enhance ­ if adequately implemented ­ the effectiveness of Program outcomes.

38.     The government debt market component was developed partly as a result of the TES crisis in
2002, which pointed to deficiencies in market pricing and in the government's debt issuance strategy.
The principal output was the development of a debt issuance strategy, the creation of a new MoF ­ Central
Bank debt committee to review and advise the Minister of Finance on debt strategies, and the development
of a liquid short-term TES market that would facilitate the establishment of a reliable benchmark yield
curve for government securities. This component made an important contribution to the development of the
domestic money and government debt markets which had previously lacked a government risk-free
reference rate on the short end of the yield curve.

39.     The scope of the components and their expected outcomes was somewhat ambitious for a
Program consisting of only two loan operations. While relevant, the strengthening and diversification of
non-bank financial intermediaries and improving access to housing credit for underserved segments of the
population were not the primary objectives of the Program. Since the banking system was the dominant
component of the financial system, supporting sound and sustainable growth of banks, especially after the
1998-1999 bank crisis, was a greater priority. The support provided by the Program to the insurance,
pension, trust and housing microcredit industries represents arguably a more complex and longer-term goal
that could potentially have been better addressed via a third programmatic loan that focused on the
development of non-bank financial intermediation and access to credit.

3.4 Revised Components:

40.     The program components remained unchanged.




                                                              - 12 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry of the Program

41.      Overall Program design was highly relevant to the government's development objectives and
the need to support sustainable economic growth through a more efficient financial system, as
reflected in the Bank's Colombia CAS. Preparation of the Program benefited from participation by
competent and experienced teams from the Bank and the Colombian Government. The success of an earlier
FSAL was instrumental in establishing a productive dialogue between the two teams. The Program also
benefited from extensive Bank-led economic and sector work during that period, particularly in the areas of
banking system performance (stocktaking report and assistance on consolidated supervision issues) and
debt market development (see "Reform Roadmap: Strategic Choices in Developing Colombia's Debt
Markets", World Bank, February 2003), as well as close collaboration (including supervisory training) in
housing finance issues. The analysis of program risks was comprehensive and the assumptions regarding
the impact of macro-economic factors were realistic.

Quality at entry of PFSAL II

42.      Quality at entry of PFSAL II is judged to be Satisfactory. The Program objectives were in line
with the government's development agenda and, an issue particularly important with middle-income
countries, accompanied a reform process initiated by the MoF itself. The design of the PFSAL II was
complementary to the outputs achieved during the first Operation and partly took into consideration the
recommendations made in the stocktaking report. The continuity of the team members on both sides
facilitated the negotiations and contributed to the high quality of design of the second Operation. However,
the broad range of financial sector reforms that was covered by the five components likely inhibited their
clear prioritization and potentially overstretched scarce team resources.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome of the overall Program

43.      The overall outcome of the Program has been favorable, although some of the specific
objectives are medium-term goals for which the critical mass of outcomes has not yet been fully
realized. This section first reviews the principal outcomes to-date in the sectors supported by the Program
(banking, housing finance, insurance, pensions/trusts, capital markets and government debt markets) using
specific relevant indicators that were identified at the time of loan appraisal (see Annex 1 for a summary),
and then evaluates the outcome of PFSAL II in terms of its attribution to these outcomes.

Macroeconomic Environment

44.      Macroeconomic performance has improved over the Program's horizon. Supported by a
pick-up in global economic activity, real GDP grew by 4.0 percent per annum in 2003 and 2004, which
was higher than envisioned at the start of the Program (see table on Selected Economic Indicators in section
10). Inflation dropped to its lowest level in a generation, reaching 5.5 percent in 2004 from 7.0 percent in
2002. Domestic interest rates declined to single-digit levels compared to the crisis period, while strong
capital inflows led to an appreciation of the peso in 2002-2004 and domestic investment rebounded. The



                                                     - 13 -

government continued to make progress on fiscal adjustment, with the combined public sector deficit
narrowing to 1.3 percent of GDP in 2004, down from 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002 ­ see "Country
Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Colombia" (World Bank, September 2005) and "Colombia ­
2005 Article IV Consultation" (IMF, May 2005) for more details.

Banking System

45.     Banking system performance continued to improve during 2003-2004 in terms of solvency,
profitability and asset quality, a clear indication that the recovery from the 1998-1999 crisis is on a
sustainable path. As shown in the table below, Return on Average Equity (ROAE) reached 23 percent in
2004, compared to a loss of 20.7 percent in 2000 at the height of the crisis (see Tables on Colombian
Banking System in section 10). The stability of the capital adequacy ratio at 13-14 percent of assets during
the 2000-2004 period ­ in spite of the introduction of progressively stricter market risk capital
requirements ­ is a tribute to the agility of the government's response to the crisis through the innovative
capitalization program offered to public and private sector banks as well as the debtors' relief programs.
Net interest income has improved modestly, mostly as a result of lower funding costs combined with more
"sticky" pricing on the asset side. After a long period of shrinkage, banking system size and financial
intermediation have started to recover, as shown by the modest increase in the loan to GDP ratio to 24.5
percent in 2004. At the same time, the proportion of past due loans has been steadily declining down to 3.3
percent of total loans in 2004.

                                   Table 1: Banking System Indicators

                                         2000       2001       2002       2003         2004
     (figures in percent)
     ROAA                                 -2.3        0.1        1.1        1.9          2.7
     ROAE                                -20.7        1.1        9.6       17.1        23.0
     Capital adequacy ratio              13.2       13.3       12.5        13.1        13.8
     Net Interest / assets                 3.5        3.1        3.4        3.9          4.2
     Gross Loans / GDP                   27.0       25.3       24.6        23.1        24.5
     Efficiency ratio                    80.0       74.1       71.1        61.5        54.1
     Past due / total loans              11.0         9.7        8.7        6.8          3.3

     Source: SB



46.     According to the stocktaking report, the recovery in performance of the banking system can
be attributed to four main factors. These are: (i) the resumption of economic growth; (ii) a stable net
interest margin in spite of declining interest rates; (iii) the exit and/or restructuring of significant
non-performing assets in previous years; and (iv) the government's recapitalization program for both public
and private sector banks. At the same time, the banks' increased focus on risk management has contributed
to the sound growth of the banking system, which has also been supported by a more proactive banking
supervision relying on more sophisticated monitoring tools.

47.     With the introduction of SARC for credit risk management and a VAR framework for
market risk capital requirements, Colombia is at the forefront in the adoption of risk management
standards in the region. Nevertheless, implementation of these new risk management techniques needs to
proceed with caution as the Bank recommended during the design of the Program. The development of




                                                    - 14 -

internal credit risk models is dependent on a large amount of accurate historical credit information, while
the quantitative output of these models needs to be complemented with a more subjective evaluation of the
banks' risk management capacities that is not easily captured in a quantitative framework. On the other
hand, the new credit risk models can provide bank management a more accurate measure of the potential
magnitude of portfolio problems and contribute to better diversification of the loan portfolio.

48.      FOGAFIN's track record in managing weak banks, in recovering bad loans, and in
downsizing and eventually selling off State-owned banks, has produced tangible benefits in terms of
reducing the magnitude of fiscal liabilities. As shown in the table below, and based on the various
programs administered by FOGAFIN explained in the aforementioned section, the latest estimate of the
fiscal burden from the banking system bailout currently stands at about 2.6 percent of GDP, down from the
original contribution of 6.3 percent (the figure of 10 percent that was used in the earlier section was in
relation to GDP in 1999, while this figure relates to GDP in 2004). An important component of the reduced
liability resides with the successful management of state-owned and intervened banks, such as the
improvement in financial performance of BANCAFE and GRANAHORRAR (the latter was subsequently
privatized - see below), and the winding down of IFI's first-tier operations and transfer of its second-tier
operations to BANCOLDEX. This is reflected below in the Support and Recoveries figures, as well as in
the Residual Assets at Book Value figure. The biggest cost component of the bailout of the banking system
crisis has been the public sector banks, while the highest payback involves the loans to private sector banks
that are being repaid as originally scheduled.

               Table 2: Cost to the Government of the Banking System Crisis 1998 - 2004

      (billions of pesos)
                                                                  Residual
                                       Total                      Assets at          Net
                                     Support     Recoveries    Book Value          Costs

      Public sector banks               5,954            965          1,036        3,953
      Intervened banks                  2,884            976          1,037          871
      Cooperatives                      1,968          1,088            370          510
      Debtor relief programs            3,292            572          1,686        1,034
      Private sector banks              1,637            420          1,147           70
      Other                              440             319             20          101
       Total                          16,175           4,340          5,296        6,539
      (percent of 2004 GDP)             6.3%           1.7%            2.1%        2.6%

      Source: FOGAFIN



49.      In spite of the generally optimistic picture on the banking system, the stocktaking report
identified certain outstanding vulnerabilities that should be addressed going forward. The most
important of these are: (i) improvement of financial system surveillance and coordination among relevant
agencies; (ii) focus on specific risks (interest rate mismatch and credit quality) of mortgage banks; (iii)
adoption of consolidated supervision for financial conglomerates; and (iv) diversification of the exposure of
the financial system away from public sector debt. The last issue is particularly relevant, since it can
potentially lead to higher income volatility, can crowd out private sector lending and can create a false
sense of security (zero risk weights for capital adequacy purposes). Public sector exposure (primarily
through TES investments) of the banking system rose from 11.2 percent in 1998 to 25.8 percent in 2003.



                                                    - 15 -

50.     Some of the recommendations of the stocktaking report were addressed in PFSAL II. In
particular, the second Operation included a draft Circular on capital regulations for financial
conglomerates, assistance in modifying the FRECH swap hedge into an option instrument (see below), the
expansion of good practice risk management and other prudential regulations to non-bank financial
intermediaries, and continued support to the efforts by SB to implement SARC. At the same time, the
recent pickup in economic growth and private sector lending has halted the increase in public sector
exposure of bank balance sheets and, in the absence of an economic shock, this is expected to continue in
the foreseeable future.

Housing Finance

51.     The health of the housing finance portfolio has improved noticeably since the 1998-99 crisis,
but origination of new mortgages remains limited. In terms of size, total banking system mortgage
financing fell from 13,219 billion pesos in 1997 to 7,088 billion in 2004, reflecting the exit and intervention
of the old housing savings and loans banks (CAVs), the write-downs of the loan portfolio, and more
recently the securitization of a sizeable portion of outstanding mortgages in 2003-04 that includes the only
Latin American issuance to-date of MBS that are backed by a portfolio of non-performing mortgages. On a
positive note, the volume of banking system financing started to slowly expand again during the first half of
2005. As shown in Table 3, total housing finance by the financial system has not fallen as much when
adjusted for the sizeable increase in securitization of mortgages, which in 2004 accounted for 26.0 percent
of total financial system credit to housing. In addition, past-due mortgages have decreased from 24.6
percent of total mortgages in 2002 to 9.8 percent in 2004, although part of this drop can be attributed to the
securitization of non-performing mortgages. While the biggest drop in the average price of new homes
occurred during 1995-1997, the average price of new homes has stabilized in recent years, which is
welcome for long-term loan-to-value ratios.

52.     With lower risks in mortgage financing and a more stable macroeconomic environment,
interest rates on VIS (Vivienda de Interés Social or Social Priority Housing) and non-VIS loans have
started to decline. During the first half of 2005, the UVR spread on non-VIS loans had dipped to 11.46
percent and for VIS loans to 10.58 percent. Another important development has been the rise in fixed-rate
peso mortgage financing. Based on new mortgage loan disbursements, fixed-rate peso financing has risen
from 1.4 percent of total disbursements during the second half of 2002, to 16.9 percent during the first half
of 2005. This positive development can also be linked to the success of the government's debt management
strategy, through the market's acceptance of the 10 year government bond that acts as a key reference rate
in the pricing of fixed-rate peso mortgages.




                                                     - 16 -

                              Table 3: Selected Indicators: Housing Finance

                                                  2000         2001       2002       2003         2004

     Banking System Credit to Housing         12,853.2     12,404.7   10,914.9     9,626.3     7,088.0
     Past Due mortgages as % of total           19.7%        21.4%       24.6%      23.6%         9.8%

     Financial System Credit to Housing                                           14,908.5    14,009.0
      non-VIS loans                                 NA          NA         NA     10,118.0     9,237.8
      VIS loans                                     NA          NA         NA      4,790.6     4,771.1

     Securitized Mortgage Loans                                                    1,872.6     3,647.9
      non-VIS tranches                              NA          NA         NA      1,302.0     2,628.5
      VIS tranches                                  NA          NA         NA        570.6     1,019.4

     Interest rate spreads on UVR loans:
      non-VIS loans                                 NA          NA       13.55       13.45        12.34
      VIS loans                                     NA          NA       11.00       10.95        10.71

     Fixed Rate Peso rates:
      non-VIS loans                                 NA          NA        16.1        17.5        19.40
      VIS loans                                     NA          NA        13.3        16.1        16.09

     Average Price of new homes (index)          100.5        101.1      100.9       101.4        102.0

     Source: Titularizadora Colombiana, Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial
     Note: Financial system includes banking system plus cooperatives, special funds, and other
     special entities.



53.      Housing banks (BECHs) have begun to diversify their assets in order to become full-fledged
commercial banks. The shift in structure of this market segment is explained primarily by the
diversification lesson they learned from the financial crisis, and by the numerous mergers between
commercial banks and mortgage banks ­ supported by the application of new regulatory norms ­ that have
resulted in a more balanced consolidated loan portfolio. The progressively stricter market risk capital
adequacy requirements have also contributed to the BECHs' diversification strategy, by penalizing their
existing interest rate mismatch exposures (UVR inflation-adjusted rates on mortgage loans and DTF
peso-denominated deposit rates) with higher capital requirements. In response, BECHs are slowly
diversifying away from mortgages into commercial and consumer lending, where the interest rate
denomination (DTF) is the same as for deposits. While these new risk parameters might be discouraging
the underwriting of some mortgage loans, the development of MBS securities now offers an opportunity for
banks to earn a commission on mortgage underwriting while subsequently transferring the risk to investors
via securitization; however, the sustainability of the securitization market hinges on a critical mass of new
mortgage business being generated going forward. This has not been the case as yet in spite of a more
diversified banking system and better risk management tools, because other housing finance constraints
might be binding (e.g. interest rate ceilings established by the Constitutional Court as a means to protect
low income borrowers, and the lingering memory from the crisis). The increasing use of fixed-rate peso



                                                     - 17 -

mortgage financing should also help to reduce the pricing mismatch since both asset and liabilities will be
priced in pesos. As BECHs achieve a more diversified loan and investment portfolio, demand for the
FRECH interest rate option hedge facility (see below) should diminish.

54.      One of the more difficult aspects of housing finance has been reaching the underserved
population. While VIS financing has been stable, micro-housing financing has been slow to respond to
incentives mechanisms. According to the Ministry of Housing, there are still a number of challenges facing
the low-income population in accessing financing. From the lenders' perspectives these include: (i) interest
rate ceiling; (ii) difficulty in confirming earning capacity, particularly for those in the informal sector; and
(iii) higher underwriting costs. From the borrowers' perspective, the limiting factors include: (i) lack of
previous banking relationships; (ii) insufficient information on their financing options; (iii) inability to
demonstrate earnings capacity since official earnings usually fall below the threshold to qualify for a
mortgage; and (iv) reluctance to approach a bank in view of the experience with the banking system crisis
when the interest rate indexation formula had been changed to the borrowers' disadvantage.

Insurance

55.      The insurance industry shows only a marginally improving trend in terms of capitalization
and level of activity. As shown in the table below, solvency margins have increased in both the general and
the life insurance segments of the market, although it is questionable whether this can be attributed to (only
partially implemented) reforms that were supported under this Program. Insurance premiums as a percent
of GDP have increased marginally and remain at relatively low levels. The higher premium revenues for
general insurance reflect the industry trend with the post-9/11 rise in premiums in the face of greater
general risk. In the case of life insurance, the modest rise in the level of activity is accounted for by growth
in economic activity particularly the decline in the unemployment rate which has contributed to an increase
in the number of insured. Nevertheless, the low level of insurance premiums relative to the size of the
economy points to the existence of a large underserved population. As the private capitalization schemes
continue to grow, the insurance industry will play an increasing role in the sustainability of retirees'
benefits through annuities and other insurance services.

                                    Table 4: Insurance Industry Indicators

      (figures in percent)                2000       2001         2002        2003         2004
      Solvency / capitalization
       General insurance                  41.3        52.8        58.8         60.2         58.9
       Life insurance                     38.8        39.0        41.6         44.5         45.2

      Insurance premiums / GDP
       General insurance                    1.3        1.5          1.7         1.6          1.6
       Life insurance                       0.9        0.9          1.0         1.0          1.0

      Source: SB



Pension Funds and Trusts

56.      The fund and trust business in Colombia continues to grow steadily, with the AFPs
representing the principal players. The size of the total portfolio of funds has risen from 9.6 percent of




                                                     - 18 -

GDP in 2001 to 15.3 percent in June 2005. The strongest growth has been in the individual capitalization
funds which are part of the mandatory pension fund system, while the voluntary capitalization funds have
exhibited modest growth. Since the reform of the pension system in December 1993, which introduced the
individual defined-contribution capitalization accounts, the growth in pension fund assets managed by the
AFPs has been gathering momentum. Pension fund affiliates are required to contribute to their individual
retirement accounts and in 2003 their total contribution averaged 13.5 percent of wages, of which 10
percent was the amount invested in their individual accounts. It should be noted that the growth in this
business cannot be attributed to the Program itself, which supported the longer-term development of
pension/trust funds by emphasizing the need for improved disclosure so that affiliates and individual
investors could better understand the value of their investments and the associated risks of the pension fund
portfolio. The development of the `Fact Sheets' by investment funds has enhanced the availability of
information to individual investors, and it is expected that the new prudential regulations supported by
PFSAL II will further encourage the growth of this market.

                                  Table 5: Pension/Trust Fund Indicators

                                                                                                  June
     (% of GDP)                                2001        2002        2003          2004         2005
     AFPs
        Individual Capitalization Funds         6.0          7.7          8.8         10.3         10.8
        Voluntary Capitalization Funds          1.0          1.2          1.4          1.4          1.6
     Trust Funds
        Voluntary                               NA           0.2          0.3          0.3          0.3
        Ordinary                                1.9          1.7          1.7          1.8          1.8
        Special Purpose Funds                   0.7          0.6          0.8          0.8          0.8
          Total                                 9.6         11.4        13.0          14.6         15.3

     Avg. Rate of Return on Selected Funds

        Individual Capitalization Funds        9.97        18.22       17.08        17.39         17.19

        Ordinary                               9.30         7.38        7.52          6.98         7.81

     Source: SB



Capital Markets

57.      The outcome in capital markets has been mixed to date. Market capitalization has been growing
noticeably, as shown in the table below, from 11.5 percent of GDP in 2000 to 25.1 percent in 2004. The
strongest performance was in 2004; nevertheless, the growth in market capitalization is attributed mostly to
higher share prices helped by the improved outlook for the economy. New market offerings have been
disappointing, with equities falling from 11 new issues in 2001 to only 2 in 2004, although this has been
partially offset by the issuance of new private sector debt. Although secondary market trading has been
dominated by TES reflecting the success of the government's new public debt auction strategy aimed at
increasing market liquidity, the relatively high level of domestic public debt has contributed to the partial
crowding out of domestic private sector issuance. The new Securities Law, which was recently approved,
will likely not have a measurable impact on market activity in the short run, although it is expected to
effectively reduce some of the existing barriers to market entry over the medium-term. In addition, other



                                                    - 19 -

reforms supported in this Program (e.g. development of mortgage securitization and of a uniform prudential
framework for collective investment schemes) are also expected to make a positive contribution to
deepening domestic capital markets over time.

                                     Table 6: Capital Market Indicators

      (mill US$)                                2000        2001         2002         2003          2004

      Market Capitalization                  9,648.7    10,730.0      9,601.7      14,122.1     24,587.5
      % of GDP                                11.5%        13.1%        11.8%        17.7%        25.1%

      Secondary market trading              27,665.1    32,710.0   111,646.0      134,207.0    233,054.0
      of which: government securities       19,946.6    24,160.9     98,259.0     113,985.0    200,438.0

      New Issues:
       Equities
        number                                                11            10            4             2
        value                                              343.5        306.6         192.2          0.6
       Private sector bonds
        number                                                10            13            7             9
        value                                              430.4        831.1         307.1      1,264.4
       Other
        number                                                15            19           18           13
        value                                           2,187.20     1,860.36      1,627.56     1,735.71

      Source: SV



Government Debt Market

58.      The domestic government debt market has benefited greatly in recent years from an
improved fiscal policy, a more favorable macroeconomic environment, and better institutional
arrangements and strategy for public debt. The public sector debt to GDP ratio has declined from 63.6
percent of GDP in December 2002 to 59.1 percent in September 2004, although part of the improvement is
attributed to a decline in the external debt ratio due to the appreciation in the value of the peso relative to
the US dollar. At the same time, the government debt strategy of developing a domestic zero risk yield
curve supported by the Program has enhanced liquidity in the secondary market. As shown in the table
below, the government securities (TES) yield curve has shifted down and become flatter in the past two
years. The decline in the 2 and 5 year bonds has been more consistent than for the 10 year bond reflecting
the relatively lower liquidity of the 10 year bond due to its more recent introduction. A more accurate yield
curve will contribute to less pricing volatility of government securities and hence better valuation of
investment portfolios. With a more reliable government yield curve, market participants will be able to
better price non-government securities off the risk-free reference rate. Such a development is already
starting to take place with the recent introduction of a 10-year fixed peso rate mortgage whose price is
based on the 10-year TES bond reference rate.




                                                     - 20 -

                            Table 7: Government Securities Yield Curve (TES)

     (%)
                    90 days        1 year    2 years      5 years     10 years
     2003
     June               7.83         9.85      11.65        14.10        15.24
     December           9.06        10.34      11.63        13.81        15.18

     2004
     June               7.43         9.32      11.14        13.97        15.49
     December           7.32         8.29        9.40       11.76        13.75

     2005
     June               5.96         6.73        7.67        9.93        12.41

     Note: end of month rates.
     Source: Banco de la Republica



Assessment of Outcome of the Current Operation (PFSAL II)

59.     Based on the Program outcomes to-date and their attribution to the current Operation, the
outcome of PFSAL II is considered Satisfactory. Achievement of the Program's principal objectives was
enhanced by PFSAL II, particularly with regards to strengthening the government's capacity to mitigate
weaknesses in the banking system and completing the clean up of the banking crisis. The bank regulation
and resolution and government debt market components of PFSAL II were contributing factors to the
achievement of these objectives, and have also supported the rebound in economic activity that has taken
place. By contrast, experience in developing housing finance, non-bank financial institutions and capital
markets was more limited in reaching their expected outcomes in the short term, although early
expectations should perhaps have been more tempered in these areas given the presence of other binding
constraints and the longer-term nature of such development.

60.     The successful implementation of the banking regulation and resolution component
contributed to improved performance of the banking system, enhanced supervisory practices, and a
reduction in fiscal liabilities from the banking crisis. New norms issued by the SB in the application of
Law 795 have reinforced surveillance capacity with stronger enforcement capabilities and greater focus on
the risks from financial groups. The mechanisms for quick bank resolution are in place, even through no
interventions have been necessary during the period of the Program. Although the winding down of
state-owned banks is not yet complete, significant steps have also been taken in that direction (the most
recent being the sale of GRANAHORRAR to Spanish bank BBVA on 31 October 2005) and the sale of
GRANBANCO (the legal entity that has substituted BANCAFE ­ see next section) could be completed by
2007. As shown in the previous section, the net cost of the banking crisis to the government is currently
estimated at 2.6 percent of GDP, which is down from an earlier estimate of 4.5 percent and significantly
below the level of the initial contribution due to asset and cash recoveries.

61.     Experience to-date has been more mixed with regards to outcomes attributable to PFSAL II
that are related to the housing finance, non-bank financial institutions and capital markets
components, although development in these areas is a longer-term process. Progress on housing finance
has been helped by growth in securitization of mortgages, which currently represents about 26.0 percent of



                                                     - 21 -

banking system credit to housing. On the other hand, micro-housing financing has moved slowly; while
banks have mobilized more resources to micro-financing based on their commitments with the government,
other intermediaries such as financial cooperatives (CCFs) and other social funds have not met
expectations, although some improvement has been noted in 2005. Strengthening and diversifying the risks
of other non-bank financial institutions such as insurance companies and pension funds is a longer term
process that has not yet produced tangible results. Capital markets are still dominated by the government
securities and private sector issuance is limited, although the new Securities Law should contribute to
increased activity in the medium term. On the other hand, progress in the development of the government's
debt market strategy has improved liquidity in the money market and should act as a catalyst to the
issuance of private sector securities that rely on a risk-free rate as the basis for valuation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Bank Regulation and Resolution

Banking regulations

62.      PFSAL I: The new Financial System Law (795/2003) covers a broad spectrum of reforms in
financial legislation, ranging from corporate governance norms to bank restructuring procedures. Some of
the key reforms addressed by this law include corporate governance, enhanced reporting requirements for
financial intermediaries, increased enforcement powers for the SB, introduction of new types of financial
instruments, institutional strengthening of the SB, greater protection of depositors, a new procedure for
asset-liability transfers and carve-outs from failing banks, and more extensive monitoring of money
laundering activities by the MoF's AML unit.

63.      The law was complemented by a series of prudential measures. The SB has developed methods for
evaluating financial intermediaries based on their risk profiles. An expanded supervisory rating system has
been implemented and is being used to assess deposit insurance fees based on the risk of the institution.
New banking regulations have aligned risk management practices much closer to Basel II standards. The
introduction of the SARC (Credit Risk Management System) methodology requires banks to either develop
internal models for quantification of credit risks and to use them for loan loss provisioning, or to utilize the
SB's reference models. The transition period to fully implement the new methodology extends until 2009,
which allows time for the intermediaries to compile the relevant data bases and to test the models. The SB
has introduced sophisticated VAR-based market risk capital requirements and has issued market valuation
regulations jointly with the SV.

64.      PFSAL II: The stocktaking report candidly analyzed strengths and weaknesses in the banking
system, and provided recommendations for follow-up actions during the second Operation. New norms
have been developed to enhance the regulatory environment, such as draft rules for capital exposure arising
from financial groups, although their implementation awaits a new decree that would define the SB's
authority to receive information regarding the consolidation of financial groups. However, as identified
both in earlier Bank policy analysis (see "Colombia ­ Supervision of Financial Conglomerates ­
Summary Draft Distance Report", World Bank, June 2004) and in the September 2004 Financial Sector
Assessment Program (FSAP), important revisions in the consolidated supervision framework are still
pending, such as legal modifications to the Commercial Code covering the definition of a financial
conglomerate (i.e. presumption of subordination or `dominant influence') and the scope and conduct of
consolidated supervision itself. This is important given the dominance and complexity in structure of
domestic financial conglomerates that are controlled by economic groups with significant commercial
interests. In addition, a conflict of interest policy by the SB is being developed to include a list of conflict
situations that would serve as the standard for all financial institutions. Finally, new guidelines have been


                                                      - 22 -

drafted for the application of disciplinary actions that should contribute to a more uniform application of
disciplinary standards, while an appeals unit was created within the legal department of the SB in order to
provide a more impartial assessment of disciplinary actions that are under appeal.

Bank resolution process

65.     PFSAL I: The new banking law defined more precisely the SB's powers and authority regarding
bank resolution procedures. Under the new law, the intervention of a bank by the SB triggers an immediate
carve-out of assets and liabilities in order to minimize the potential losses to the deposit guarantee agency.
The process, whereby the deposit insurance agency (FOGAFIN) carves out the good assets to be placed in
a trust under a securitized instrument that in turn backs the corresponding deposit liabilities of the
intervened bank, has been applied successfully in other countries and facilitates the prompt transfer of
assets to new institutional buyers. FOGAFIN has also been granted the authority to guarantee the assets of
the trust using the resources available under the deposit guarantee fund. While no banks have been
intervened since the adoption of this new mechanism, FOGAFIN has developed appropriate policies and
procedures to ensure effective implementation.

66.     PFSAL II: The MOF and SB have issued regulatory norms addressing the reform of bank
resolution procedures using the asset and liability care-out modality. The procedures provide the SB with
the tools to determine the optimal level of asset/liability transfers as a preferred standard procedure,
without the need to seek prior authorization from client depositors. This is facilitated through the authority
to use asset securitizations to enable a more effective transfer of loan portfolios. The new regulations for
implementing this also specify a limit of complementary deposit insurance funds that may be used for
non-matched deposits under this transaction ­ the limit to be used being whatever the deposit insurance
fund would have had to pay if all insured deposits of the failed bank had to be redeemed.

Winding down of State-owned banks

67.     PFSAL I: The winding down of State-owned banks under the management of FOGAFIN was
expected to reduce the role of the State in financial intermediation and, from the proceeds of their sale or
through the recovery of bank assets, reduce the government's liabilities arising from the 1998-1999
banking crisis. The main institutions slated for sale or restructuring were BANCAFE, GRANAHORRAR
and IFI. During the first Operation, the FOGAFIN-owned asset management company (CISA) was
authorized to accelerate asset disposition through direct sales and other means such as securitization. From
2000 through the first quarter of 2005, CISA had acquired 4.41 trillion pesos in problem assets and had
recovered 1.853 trillion, which represents about half of all recoveries for public sector and intervened
banks and cooperatives (see Table 2). IFI, the insolvent industrial development bank, was wound down,
with its viable assets transferred to BANCOLDEX, the export financing agency. The privatization process
for BANCAFE was initiated with the strategy to find a partner that would purchase 51 percent ownership
of the bank. The privatization of GRANAHORRAR moved at a slower pace due to several operating issues
(e.g. heavy concentration in mortgage sector) that were considered to be an obstacle to its successful sale.

68.     PFSAL II: Progress was achieved in the sale and liquidation of the state-owned banks, although
the timing has been expanded due to unfavorable market conditions. IFI was liquidated as planned. On the
other hand, two attempts to sell BANCAFE through open public offers failed to produce any bids; it was
determined that a key deterrent was the labor liabilities and pensions of protected state workers in the bank.
FOGAFIN then considered a new strategic plan that appears potentially promising. Through innovative
financial engineering involving a restructuring of both GRANAHORRAR and BANCAFE utilizing the newly



                                                    - 23 -

developed "carve-out" technique of bank resolution, FOGAFIN created a new entity called GRANBANCO
that is comprised of the good assets of BANCAFE with additional "excess" capital provided by
GRANAHORRAR and by CISA from its own asset recoveries. All assets and liabilities of BANCAFE
except its pension liabilities were transferred to GRANBANCO. Following the creation of GRANBANCO,
FOGAFIN has managed to sell GRANAHORRAR to the private sector in an auction on 31 October 2005.
The process of operational strengthening of GRANBANCO will continue with a possible return to the
market for sale by 2007.

Component II: Housing Finance

69.      PFSAL I:      The first Operation supported measures seeking to: (i) streamline the judicial
proceedings associated with the foreclosure of mortgaged properties (Law 794/2003); (ii) protect existing
mortgage borrowers from unexpected increases in inflation; (iii) allow financial institutions to hedge their
interest rate mismatch (FRECH swap hedge) and enhance the liquidity of their mortgage-backed security
holdings by swapping those securities for government securities at the Central Bank (FRECH liquidity
fund); and (iv) channel more financing to the lower income bracket of the population by expanding micro
housing credit and introducing micro-housing leasing through the banking system.

70.      Demand for the FOGAFIN-administered inflation hedge by borrowers was below target, in part
because declining inflation lowered its perceived importance and also because consumers found the
mechanism complex. The Central Bank-run FRECH hedge swap program was not utilized by banks due to
its complex design and the relatively low inflation and peso interest rates that may have discouraged banks
from incurring the costs associated with this hedging instrument. This is because, in order to protect against
upswings in interest rates, participants in the FRECH swap would need to continuously contribute funds
reflecting the difference between the current low interest rates and the trigger rate beyond which
participants were protected. However, in a low interest rate environment, banks would incur cash outflows
and would only benefit once rates rose above the trigger; a protracted period of low rates was therefore
making the mechanism less desirable and unpopular. Due to the lack of demand, the swap hedge facility
was subsequently restructured into a more flexible interest rate option. Only one bank has to-date utilized
the redesigned facility, in order to cover the equivalent of US$250 million of mortgage loans for 48 months.
However, participation in the facility is only available once a year (during October), which limits the ability
of banks to use this hedging tool exactly when needed. With regards to Law 794/2003 to streamline
foreclosure proceedings, banks have reported recently a reduction in the time required to seize a property
from about 50 to 32 months, although the sample on which this is based is relatively small.

71.      PFSAL II: The government obtained a voluntary agreement from commercial banks to allocate a
small portion of their loan portfolio (0.5 percent) to micro-housing finance either directly or through
investments in FINDETER bonds. Based on Ministry of Housing calculations, the banking system had
reached 95.0 percent of the micro-housing financing goal for 2005 as of March, an indication of growing
interest in this type of financing, although banks met a significant portion of their commitment by
purchasing FINDETER bonds (whose funds were then on-lent) rather than direct micro-housing lending.

72.      With the mortgage securitization market growing in importance, the SB has developed new
regulatory norms to address the risk profile of these instruments. Since MBS are issued with different
classes representing different levels of risk, the SB issued risk weights for each security class based on
external credit ratings, a procedure that is in line with the treatment of securitizations under the Basel II
framework. This addressed any regulatory arbitrage concerns that a bank would sell its mortgages to the
securitization company and retain the subordinated (i.e. highest risk) tranche of the MBS while minimizing



                                                     - 24 -

its capital requirements; under the new norms, the securitization would result in a reduction of regulatory
capital for the bank that is commensurate with the actual risk reduction in its portfolio. At the same time,
the SV introduced a risk-based capital adequacy regulation to cover the credit and market risks incurred by
securitization companies, which conforms to the same standards applied by the SB. This new rule applies
to Titularizadora Colombiana, the sole securitization company that is currently active in Colombia.
However, one of the remaining longer-term policy issues regarding MBS is its income tax exemption status
that was originally imposed to encourage the market's development. The tax-exempt status has motivated
originating banks to retain the newly issued securities, thus in effect swapping a taxable for a non-taxable
asset of equal face value. The resulting market distortion has prevented institutional investors such as
pension funds from investing in MBS in spite of the market's size and expected growth following the
pension reforms; this is because the price of MBS incorporates a premium reflecting its tax-exempt status
for banks, which results in an unattractive yield for pension funds.

Component III: Non-bank Financial Institutions

73.      PFSAL I: Insurance companies. More flexible regulatory powers were provided for the oversight
and calculation of insurance companies' solvency margins and technical reserves. An increase in the
minimum capital requirement was mandated for both insurers and re-insurers; however, the issuance of
new insurance solvency regulations (including for technical reserves) has been encountering industry
resistance due to its allegedly cumbersome requirements and overly technical sophistication. As a result,
only the value-at-risk (VAR) methodology is currently applied to the insurance companies' investment
portfolio. The SB is currently in the process of implementing a new system for the analysis and reporting of
all insurance risks (underwriting, actuarial, market, credit, operational, and reputational).

74.      PFSAL II: Investment portfolio of insurance, trust, and pension companies. The SB and SV
have issued uniform regulations for insurance, trust, and pensions companies to report the market risk of
their investment portfolios using a VAR methodology. This methodology is in the initial phase of
implementation, with the SB currently reviewing the accuracy of the information being provided by
industry participants. At the same time, both the SB and SV are evaluating the format for public disclosure
of the information on VAR by investment funds. With respect to AFP investments, the SB has issued new
rules raising the ceiling on foreign investments to 20 percent of their investment portfolio, and limiting
investments in securities of related companies to 10 percent of their investment portfolio.

Component IV: Capital Markets

75.      PFSAL I: A memorandum of understanding was signed between the SB and SV to harmonize the
regulatory framework and undertake joint supervision and surveillance of mutual funds that are subject to
both banking and securities supervision. A collaborative inter-institutional agreement between the SB, SV
and the Central Bank established a common financial asset valuation methodology and a unified
mark-to-market regulation for different fund types, which will mitigate mispricing weaknesses in the
financial system that were at the core of the 2002 TES mini-crisis.

76.      PFSAL II: Important measures included the harmonization of prudential capital requirements for
the various collective investment schemes operating in Colombia, and mark-to-market valuation
methodologies and disclosure requirements for mutual funds subject to the SV's supervision. While similar
valuation rules were issued as part of the first Operation for government securities, under PFSAL II the
rules were extended to include the valuation of private sector fixed income securities. With regards to
disclosure requirements, the SV issued norms in the form of standardized "fact sheets" that mutual funds



                                                     - 25 -

must disclose to the public, which include financial, management, credit rating, and other performance
information.

77.      A new Securities Law (Law 964 of July 2005), whose presentation to Congress had been a key
condition of PFSAL II, was approved that sets the framework for the capital markets in Colombia (see Box
below for details). The new Law establishes (i) norms for corporate governance; (ii) rationalized
requirements to lower the cost of issuance of securities while setting information disclosure requirements;
and (iii) entry qualification standards for industry professionals wishing to conduct securities business.


                                   Key Features of New Securities Law

      Definition of supervisory powers: the Law gives SV the power to supervise all participants in
      the securities markets, including issuers, intermediaries that conduct securities transactions, stock
      exchanges, and operators of clearing and settlement facilities. The Government has the authority
      to determine what constitutes a security. A regime of sanctioning powers and penalties for
      market misbehavior is established.

      Custody, clearance and settlement regulations: the Law establishes the principle of finality and
      makes clear the obligations of parties in a concluded securities transaction. The Law also
      provides for the establishment of a central counterparty risk clearing house in order to reduce the
      risks of market transactions.

      Regulation of intermediaries: The Law allows stock exchanges, brokers and other
      intermediaries to self-regulate under norms approved by the SV. Qualifications and fit-and-
      proper standards are applied for securities industry professionals.

      Shareholder protection: The Law introduces a number of corporate governance standards that
      are designed to protect the rights of minority shareholders. These include: a quarter of Board
      members have to be independent directors, corporations must have an audit committee where all
      independent directors are members, and public disclosure is required for any investor
      agreements.


Component V: The Government Debt and Money Markets

78.      PFSAL I: In an effort to boost the liquidity of the government securities market and to provide an
accurate methodology for the valuation of a range of other securities, the Government developed a
framework to construct a zero coupon yield curve. Based on existing debt instruments, a yield curve was
developed that covers up to 10 years in maturity. The reform also authorized the Central Bank to purchase
and exchange `on-the-run' treasury securities, i.e. those in the current window of issuance.

79.      PFSAL II: The government established a new issuance program that relies on weekly T-bill
auctions of progressively greater size. The strategy has initially focused on the 90-day T-bill, with weekly
issuance increasing from 5 billion pesos in January 2003 to 80 billion pesos by mid-2004. Each issue split
into equal weekly installments in order to allow the market to digest the offering while providing a running
90 day instrument. In addition, an Internal Committee for Public Debt Policy comprised of Senior Ministry
and Central Bank officials was established in order to exchange information on market conditions and to
advise the Finance Minister on the development of debt management policy.




                                                      - 26 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

80.      The Program's contribution to institutional development for all relevant line agencies has
generally been substantial and multifaceted. With respect to the bank regulation and resolution
component, the passage of Law 795 has elevated the sophistication of the regulatory environment and
risk-based supervisory procedures (SB), and has introduced new bank resolution techniques (FOGAFIN).
The housing finance component has supported the creation of a mortgage securitization market (SB and
SV), while the capital and government debt market reforms have cultivated greater cooperation between the
primary supervisors (SB and SV) and have substantially strengthened securities regulation (SV) and the
institutional arrangements for public debt management (MoF). By contrast, progress with regards to the
non-bank financial institutions component has been less pronounced (SB) given the limited progress
attained in implementing new solvency requirements for insurance companies.

Assessment of Institutional Development Impact of PFSAL II

81.      The institutional development impact of PFSAL II is deemed Substantial, particularly given
its positive contribution to bank regulation and resolution as well as capital and debt market
development issues. The bank regulation and resolution component continued to strengthen risk-based
supervisory practices such as the application of risk-based disciplinary rules and the development of new
norms for the evaluation of risks associated with financial groups (SB). In addition, the component
supported the establishment of a new resolution technique for insolvent banks that has not yet been utilized
as no bank failures have been experienced (FOGAFIN). New rules regarding uniform prudential
regulations and public disclosure of collective investment schemes and the establishment of a public debt
committee and yield curve development strategy have also greatly improved the capacity of the relevant
agencies (SV and MoF respectively).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

82.      Factors affecting the Program and PFSAL I. Economic factors outside the control of the
government played an influential role in determining the outcome of the Program. The main such factor ­
correctly identified in the Program document ­ was slow economic growth driven by external shocks in
Colombia's principal export markets (Venezuela and USA) that could compromise the pace of domestic
recovery; this, in turn, could have knock-on effects on Colombian sovereign debt spreads and could
therefore compromise fiscal performance. With the recovery of the world economy from the 2001-2002
recession, growth of external demand has supported a rate of economic growth that was higher than
anticipated during the Program's preparation. A stronger domestic economy has in turn contributed to the
improved health of the financial system as shown by the outcome indicators. The potential for increased
internal violence was another potential factor that could have had economic ramifications but did not


                                                     - 27 -

materialize.

83.      Factors affecting PFSAL II. As with the overall Program, external economic factors were
instrumental ­ and played a positive role ­ in the outcome of the second operation. The success of the
government's campaign against internal violence also contributed to greater confidence in the economy and
thus to increased investment activity, which further buttressed financial sector activity. On the other hand,
the lingering memories from the housing finance crisis of 1998-1999 still discouraged both demand and
supply of mortgage financing.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

84.      Factors affecting the Program and PFSAL I. A key factor in the successful outcome of the first
operation was the Government's strong commitment to the reform process in the financial sector and high
degree of cooperation with the relevant line agencies. The success of the earlier FSAL was ample evidence
of this long-standing commitment to improving economic growth through financial sector reforms. At the
same time, the Government's adept handling of the banking crisis through a quick response and effective
management ­ while maintaining overall fiscal discipline ­ contributed to the reliability of implementation
capacity for this Program. This has been complemented by the austere monetary policy of the Banco de la
Republica, which brought inflation down to 5.5 percent in 2004 from 16.7 percent at the height of the crisis
in 1998 (see Selected Economic Indicators table in section 10). More stable inflation has also contributed
to lower inflation-adjusted interest rates as seen by the downward shift in the government yield curve since
2003. Thus, a good track record on economic management helped to create a viable environment for
financial sector reforms. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the Government still faces significant
challenges in reducing the overall size of public debt.

85.      Factors affecting PFSAL II. The government's track record on economic management was even
stronger during the implementation of PFSAL II than in PFSAL I. In addition, the government's continued
commitment to financial sector reforms has enabled progress along several different fronts and was evident
more recently in the prompt passage of the new Securities Law through Congress in mid-2005 and in the
sale of GRANAHORRAR to the private sector on 31 October 2005.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

86.      Factors affecting the Program and PFSAL I. The strong commitment of the relevant line
agencies (SB, SV, FOGAFIN) and of the MoF was also conducive to the Program's satisfactory and timely
results. In addition, the SB has exhibited commendable realism in deciding to adjust earlier timetables for
implementing new prudential regulations in a more gradual manner (e.g. the verification of new bank credit
risk management models under SARC); this was influenced by pragmatic capacity/implementation
considerations both for themselves and for their supervised entities. Nevertheless, progress in the
implementation of new insurance solvency regulations under the non-bank financial institutions component
has been incomplete and needs to accelerate going forward.

87.      Factors affecting PFSAL II. Continuity of staff and strong ownership of the Program by the MoF
and relevant line agencies contributed to the success of PFSAL II. The high technical competence of staff
in these agencies was a determining factor in the successful outcome of the second Operation, although
there is some concern about the recent turnover among technical staff experienced in the SB, as well as by
any potential repercussions from the forthcoming merger of the SB and SV.



                                                     - 28 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

88.      The Program's financial resources were comprised of two one-tranche Operations that were
disbursed as follows: US$150 million for PFSAL I and US$100 million for PFSAL II. These funds
were used to assist in meeting the government's budgetary financing needs. Since the external financing
requirements for 2004 were below the original projections, the financing from the current Operation helped
to reinforce foreign exchange reserves and to reduce the amount of internal debt issuance by the
government.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

89.      The sustainability of PFSAL II components is rated as Likely in light of the positive
aforementioned outcomes to-date, continued government commitment to ­ and Bank involvement in ­
financial sector reforms, and an improved macroeconomic environment. The SB has already
implemented most of the regulatory measures that are related to Law 795-2003, and is likely to continue
(albeit at a slower pace driven by capacity considerations) the implementation of the SARC and SEARS
programs. The government is currently in the process of privatizing GRANAHORRAR and early indications
are very promising, while the financial performance of GRANBANCO has improved considerably. While
housing finance has been slow to recover, the creation of a mortgage securitization market and the recent
pick-up experienced in other types of lending are positive developments. The reform of the legal framework
of capital markets under PFSAL II will now need to be translated into effective regulations. In this regard,
a forthcoming Bank Programmatic loan series (Business Productivity and Efficiency Development Policy
Loans) and on-going FIRST grant work supported by the Bank will continue to support capital markets
development and leverage additional financial sector reforms to expand access to financial services in a
sound manner and enhance the country's competitiveness. In addition, the World Bank is currently engaged
in policy dialogue with the authorities via a program of financial sector Non-Lending Technical Assistance
that potentially includes substantial follow-up work in the legal and regulatory frameworks for the financial
system structure, pensions, credit reporting systems and creditor rights and corporate insolvency.

90.      A short-term risk factor to the sustainability of the PFSAL II reforms is the planned merger
of the SB and SV in early 2006. The government is strongly committed to the integration of financial
supervision within a single institution and has already established five working groups that are addressing
the different aspects of the merger (labor issues, technology, budgets, manuals etc.). While the merger
presents opportunities in terms of economies of scope and operations, it will involve bringing together two
relatively distinct, complex agencies in terms of their operational practices, which has the potential of
disrupting their normal supervisory activities and delaying the ambitious reform agenda that has been
supported by this Program.        There is already some concern about the recent loss of technical staff
(particularly on risk management issues) in the SB.

91.      Medium term macroeconomic risks and the upcoming elections could also affect the
sustainability of PFSAL II and of the overall Program. A notable slowing of economic growth and
perhaps a recession could discourage further financial deepening, worsen the government's fiscal position
and adversely affect the quality of the banks' assets. This is particularly important in light of the relatively
high level of Colombia's public debt (around 50 percent of GDP) and the banking system's continued
dependence on the public sector for its profitability and solvency (public sector exposure accounts for
around 25 percent of bank assets). In addition, the upcoming Presidential elections might - if they result in
a change in government priorities or in political turbulence - adversely affect (but are unlikely to derail)



                                                    - 29 -

intended financial sector outcomes. While important, these risks are not considered at present an imminent
threat to the sustainability of the reforms supported by PFSAL II.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

92.     Since PFSAL II was a single-tranche policy adjustment loan, no transition arrangements were
necessary.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

93.     Bank performance in the identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of PFSAL II is
considered Highly Satisfactory. Both in the identification phase of the Program and in PFSAL II, the
Bank showed sound judgment in selecting the targets drawing on existing analytic work, previous loan
experience as well as comparable reforms undertaken in other parts of the region. The identification of the
overall Program matrix showed a balance between complexity of reforms and implementation capacity and
relevance in terms of the principal challenges facing the financial sector. While it can be argued that the
design of the Program was complex and somewhat ambitious for a Program consisting of only two
operations, it was compatible with the Borrower's capacity and supported an existing ambitious financial
sector government reform package. The first Operation focused on institutional reforms with greater
attention paid to the banking system, while the second focused on the implementation of those reforms and
the upgrading of the legal framework of the capital markets. In general, the Program and the corresponding
second Operation were well designed, consistent with the Bank's country strategy and supported by a
stable macroeconomic environment.

7.2 Supervision:

94.     Bank supervision of PFSAL II is considered Satisfactory. Effective Bank supervision was
instrumental in identifying the areas that needed more attention in the design of PFSAL II in order to ensure
the success of the overall Program. The Bank's emphasis on caution in the implementation of new
regulatory schemes such as SARC was helpful in getting the SB to make a careful evaluation of the
resources needed to apply these new practices effectively. However, the broad range of financial sector
reforms that was covered by the five components potentially overstretched scarce team resources and made
more difficult the supervision of all Program components with the same level of attention, although
continued Bank support through other operations (banking supervision and housing finance policy
dialogue, FSAP, FIRST-funded money market development project) partly alleviated this limitation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

95.     In light of the aforementioned comments, overall Bank performance for PFSAL II is
considered Satisfactory. The authorities have been very complimentary of the team's work in the financial
sector, and this is also reflected in continuing involvement in financial sector reform via programmatic
lending and AAA work. The Bank itself has also made a conscious effort to maintain continuity in staff in
order to facilitate the dialogue on complex policy reforms and effectively coordinate various financial
sector support initiatives in Colombia.




                                                    - 30 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

96.      Borrower performance in the preparation of PFSAL II is considered Satisfactory. Decisive
government support of the Program and adherence to a firm and comprehensive agenda of reforms in the
financial sector contributed to the smooth process of design and implementation of PFSAL II. Senior staff
at the Implementing Agency (MoF) as well as the staff of key line agencies such as the SB, SV and
FOGAFIN, as well as the Central Bank, were closely involved in the design of this Operation and also of
PFSAL I. The three financial sector supervisory agencies maintained a broad and positive policy dialogue
with the Bank during the design of this Operation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

97.      Borrower performance in the implementation of PFSAL II is considered Highly Satisfactory.
The government's successful implementation of the macroeconomic policy agenda helped in setting the
stage for a successful Operation. The passage of the new Securities Law with minimal changes and the
recent successful privatization of GRANAHORRAR are tributes to the government's commitment to these
reforms.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

98.      Performance of the implementing agency (MoF) and its partners (SB, SV, FOGAFIN) in
PFSAL II was Highly Satisfactory. In spite of early concerns about implementation capacity, a series of
wide-ranging, comprehensive and often complex financial sector regulations and other policy measures was
implemented successfully under PFSAL II. This would have been impossible without the strong leadership
and coordination role of the MoF, as well as the technical capabilities of ­ and collaboration between ­ the
relevant line agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

99.      In light of the aforementioned comments, overall Borrower performance is considered Highly
Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

v        Improvement in macroeconomic performance is an essential precondition for the successful
implementation of a financial sector reform program. The Government's success in containing the fiscal
deficit, bringing down inflation and resuming growth over the past two years has helped to stabilize the
financial system and has contributed significantly to the positive outcomes under PFSAL II.
v        Implementation of sophisticated methodologies for risk management has to proceed at a pace
commensurate with local capacity and the market environment. In the case of the credit risk models
under SARC, the SB had to provide detailed guidance and await the building up of internal capacity and
competency in the supervised financial entities before the process could be implemented in a successful
manner. Likewise, the internal capacity constraints on the part of the SB to implement such changes were
an important consideration, since the introduction of sophisticated risk management regulations led to the
poaching of many of its technical staff by private sector banks. The World Bank was helpful in pointing
out and assisting in thinking through these critical institutional needs.
v        Programmatic lending provides the Bank with more flexibility in supporting the
Government's reform agenda and permits the build-up of a broader policy dialogue. The shift in
emphasis of PFSAL II prior actions compared to PFSAL I reflected both the embedded flexibility and


                                                      - 31 -

broad menu of policy reforms that was covered. In addition, the stocktaking report provided useful policy
recommendations that were not originally contemplated in the Program policy matrix and that further
enhanced the implementation of PFSAL II. The continuity of much of the team across both loan operations
also greatly helped foster the policy dialogue.
v       A comprehensive and complex policy reform agenda, such as the one supported by this
PFSAL, might have been better served by a Program consisting of more than two loan operations.
Since the banking sector has been the dominant component of the financial system, supporting the sound
and sustainable recovery of banks, especially after the 1998-1999 bank crisis, was an important priority for
this PFSAL. This was achieved by a series of policy measures primarily in the banking, housing finance,
and capital and debt markets components. By contrast, the support provided by the Program to the
insurance, pensions, trust and housing microcredit industries represents arguably a more complex and
longer-term separate goal that could potentially have been better addressed via a third programmatic
operation that focused on the development of non-bank financial intermediation and access to housing
credit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                   Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público

                                                                                         República de Colombia




           Resultados de los Programas Sectoriales de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero

Durante los últimos años, el Banco Mundial, en el marco de los Programas Sectoriales de Desarrollo del
Sistema Financiero, ha acompañado a nuestro país en la puesta de marcha de importantes reformas que
propugnaban por el desarrollo y fortalecimiento del mercado financiero colombiano. Así, los Créditos
Programático de Ajuste al Sector Financiero apoyaron las acciones más importantes que el Gobierno puso
en marcha, a partir de la crisis financiera de 1998-99.

Como resultado de muchas de estas acciones, el sector financiero ha consolidado su recuperación, la cual
se viene dando desde finales del año 2001. A septiembre de 2005 las ganancias del sistema financiero
sumaron 2,73 billones de pesos, lo que representa un crecimiento anual de 31.1%. Estos resultados
positivos le han permitido a la banca recuperar los niveles de rentabilidad, solvencia, calidad de cartera,
entre otros, observados antes de la crisis. Al mismo tiempo, les ha permitido fortalecer sus sistemas de
manejo de riesgo y autorregulación.




                                                    - 32 -

Lo anterior, en el contexto de condiciones macroeconómicas externas e internas favorables que han
permitido que continúe la sólida expansión del sistema financiero colombiano. La demanda mundial y el
incremento de los precios de los productos básicos, así como el repunte del consumo de las familias y de
la inversión empresarial, han jugado un papel determinante en la estabilidad y crecimiento del sistema
financiero. De esta forma, las entidades que conforman este sector están acompañando el proceso de
reactivación de la economía, debido a que su actividad no puede desligarse del desempeño económico.

Cabe anotar que los Programas de Ajuste al Sector Financiero, desde sus orígenes, tuvieron como
objetivo acompañar al Gobierno de Colombia en el proceso de ajuste del sector financiero, quien en el
marco de estos programas puso en marcha acciones relacionadas con las áreas de fortalecimiento de la
regulación y supervisión bancaria, esquemas de resolución de entidades, programas de racionalización
para la banca pública, creación de mecanismos para la financiación de programas de vivienda, apoyo al
desarrollo del mercado de valores y de deuda pública y, en general, acciones para fortalecer el sector
cooperativo y los mecanismos de apoyo previsto durante la crisis de 1998-99.

A manera simplemente enunciativa cabría mencionar que el Gobierno Nacional, a través del Ministerio de
Hacienda y Crédito Público, participó en la preparación y trámite del proyecto de reforma financiera del
año 1999, hoy Ley 510. Esta Ley, le otorgó facultades al Gobierno Nacional para dictar normas que
adecuen la regulación prudencial a los parámetros internacionales, con el objeto de continuar avanzando
en la adopción de recomendaciones como las del Comité de Basilea. Igualmente, introdujo algunos
ajustes a las normas legales en materia de ingreso al sistema financiero y de manejo de situaciones de
crisis para permitir que las autoridades puedan proteger adecuadamente el ahorro del público.

Igualmente, se participó en la redacción y presentación de la Ley Marco de Vivienda (Ley 546 de 1999) la
cual creó un nuevo sistema de financiación de vivienda que respondía a los pronunciamientos de la Corte
Constitucional en relación con esta materia. La Ley significó una modificación a la estructura de
financiación de vivienda e implicó el reordenamiento del negocio y de su regulación al incorporar
instrumentos de crédito de largo plazo para facilitar el acceso al crédito hipotecario en condiciones de
equidad y de acuerdo con la capacidad de pago de los deudores y mecanismos para fomentar el ahorro
destinado a vivienda. Igualmente, promovió la profundización del mercado de capitales creando
instrumentos mediante los cuales se canalicen ahorros de largo plazo hacia el financiamiento hipotecario.
Hizo más transparentes los sistemas de amortización, incorporó mecanismos de cobertura de riesgo y, en
general, definió aspectos relacionados con costos, fuentes de recursos y el régimen de transición hacia el
nuevo esquema.

Luego de la expedición de estas leyes, el Gobierno Nacional desarrolló y reglamentó las mismas. En el
caso de la ley de vivienda buscó brindar un marco normativo claro y coherente para lograr un sistema de
financiación de vivienda viable en el largo plazo que permitiera la reactivación de la construcción y del
crédito hipotecario, adecuándose a los parámetros fijados por la Corte Constitucional en sus sentencias
sobre la constitucionalidad de dicha Ley. En el caso de la reforma financiera, desarrollando y precisando
los aspectos prudenciales incorporados en dicha ley, así como los nuevos instrumentos puestos a
disposición de los entes de regulación y control, para evitar y enfrentar las crisis financieras.

Posteriormente, y enmarcado en los cinco componentes del Programa de Ajuste del Sector Financiero, el
Gobierno Nacional desarrollo e implementó nuevas medidas cuyos logros han permitido afianzar el
fortalecimiento del sistema descrito anteriormente.        Los componentes y las principales acciones



                                                   - 33 -

adelantadas se recogen a continuación:


I. Regulación y Resolución Bancaria

Bajo el Programa FSAL I, el Gobierno Nacional trabajó en un nuevo proyecto de reforma financiera que
permitiera ajustar el contenido de las normas a los parámetros fijados para el correcto desempeño de los
mercados financieros, el cual culminó con la expedición de la Ley 795 / 2003. Esta Ley realizó algunos
ajustes al Estatuto Orgánico del Sistema Financiero, con la finalidad de modernizar algunos aspectos de la
legislación vigente, flexibilizar rigideces de la normatividad, corregir debilidades evidenciadas en el
proceso de reacomodamiento del sector financiero, introducir mecanismos de protección a los usuarios
del sistema, introducir nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza del público en las entidades
financieras, y adecuar algunas normas a pronunciamientos de la rama jurisdiccional.

Posteriormente, y en el marco del Programa FSAL II se surtió el trámite de la reglamentación de la Ley
795 / 2003 con el fin de solucionar algunos inconvenientes que presentaba el marco regulatorio del
sistema financiero Colombiano. Sin lugar a dudas, su implementación significó mayor solidez patrimonial
para muchas entidades del sector.

Igualmente, la Superintendencia Bancaria, SB, desarrolló un nuevo modelo de administración de riesgo,
con el cual se busca mejorar los modelos actuales de cálculo de exposición al riesgo de crédito, incorporar
los riegos de mercado que se originan en las operaciones de intermediación financiera y de tesorería, y
garantizar que en todo momento las instituciones financieras van a mantener niveles de capital suficientes
para soportar los riesgos a los que se encuentran expuestas. Actualmente, la SB está terminando de
desarrollar los modelos estándar de medición de riesgo para los distintos tipos de cartera y va a comenzar
a revisar los modelos internos desarrollados por algunas entidades financieras.

Con respecto al mecanismos de resolución bancaria y, en el marco de la política de racionalización de la
banca pública, es importante mencionar que la mayoría de activos de bancos oficializados fueron
liquidados por parte de FOGAFIN. Sin embargo, aún existen dos entidades sobre las cuales el gobierno
continúa con el proceso de mejora administrativa y de cartera así como con el desarrollo de un plan
estratégico para la venta o disposición de GranBanco-Bancafé y Granahorrar.

II. Financiación de la Vivienda

En el tema de vivienda, el Gobierno diseñó nuevos mecanismos para contrarrestar los factores que
afectan la demanda de crédito y el riesgo en que incurren las entidades crediticias, sin desconocer los
ajustes introducidos en la Ley de Vivienda que significaron una profunda modificación a la estructura de
financiación de vivienda e implicaron el reordenamiento del negocio y de su regulación.

En este contexto, y como parte del Programa FSAL II, se estableció el Fondo de Reserva para la
Estabilización de la Cartera Hipotecaria - FRECH, mecanismo creado para cubrir el riesgo de los
establecimientos de crédito hipotecario del diferencial entre la tasa de interés y la inflación, cuyo esquema
de operación esta operando en el mercado.

Igualmente, la autorización que el Gobierno otorgó a la Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial, FINDETER



                                                   - 34 -

para celebrar operaciones de redescuento con el sector financiero dirigidas a la financiación de
operaciones de crédito o microcrédito inmobiliario cuyo fin sea la construcción, remodelación o adquisición
de vivienda de interés social, instrumento que ha promovido el desarrollo regional y urbano y ha permitido
a segmentos de la población de bajos ingresos acceder a una vivienda digna.

Posteriormente, y en el marco del Programa FSAL II se fomentó el micro -crédito de vivienda y se mejoró
la regulación de las compañías titularizadoras. En el primer caso, mediante la implementación de un
programa de seguros a los créditos de personas con bajos ingresos a través del Fondo Nacional de
Garantías. En el segundo caso, mediante la expedición de regulación que fijó para las compañías
titularizadoras un capital mínimo basado en riesgos, el cual busca cubrir a dichas compañías de los
riesgos de crédito y de mercado.

III. Instituciones Financieras No Bancarias

Para el sector asegurador y por iniciativa del Gobierno Nacional, se previó en la Ley 795 de 2003 una
serie de modificaciones a la estructura legal que gobierna la actividad aseguradora que flexibiliza el
esquema regulador de dicho sector, asegurando una atención inmediata del mismo mediante nuevas
facultades de intervención del ejecutivo.    De igual forma, se ajustó la legislación a los estándares
internacionales en la búsqueda de dos efectos: de un lado, permitir el desarrollo de nuevos productos de
seguro dentro de un marco jurídico que permita un adecuado grado de protección a los tomadores y
asegurados y de otro, lograr que las compañías de seguros nacionales encuentren un adecuado sustento
regulatorio para el cumplimiento de sus objetivos empresariales a nivel internacional.

Por su parte, en el marco del Proyecto SFAL II, se plantearon una serie de modificaciones a las industrias
de valores y de pensiones, en temas como reformas en las inversiones de los fondos de pensiones en
títulos en el extranjero.

IV. Mercado de Capitales

En este componente, cabría destacar el trabajo desarrollado durante el trámite del proyecto de Ley del
Mercado de Valores. Este proyecto se convirtió en una necesidad del mercado debido al fenómeno de la
globalización de los mismos y a la competencia y nuevas tecnologías en informática y comunicaciones
que fomentaba un vertiginoso desarrollo de los mercados de valores alrededor del mundo, lo cual
determinó la necesidad de ajustar el esquema regulatorio a las nuevas formas de negocios y a los nuevos
riesgos involucrados.

Como parte del FSAL II, se presentó al congreso la Nueva Ley de Mercado de Valores, la cual incorporó
aspectos para regular las actividades de manejo, aprovechamiento e inversión de recursos del público
que se efectúen mediante valores, con el fin de proveer al país de un marco legal coherente, actualizado,
moderno y flexible, que organice las distintas autoridades, instituciones y agentes del mercado de valores
de manera armónica; proteja los derechos de los inversionistas; promueva el desarrollo, eficiencia y
funcionamiento; y preserve la confianza del público.

Este proyecto es hoy Ley de la República y el Gobierno esta iniciando su proceso de reglamentación. Los
aspectos más relevantes contenidos en dicha Ley son: normas de gobierno corporativo, poderes de
supervisión por parte de la Superintendencia de Valores, regulación de los intermediarios, armonización



                                                   - 35 -

de la regulación de los fondos mutuos, nuevas estándares de valorización de títulos valores,
profesionalización de los participantes en el mercado, entre otras.

V. Mercados de Deuda Pública

La estrategia de endeudamiento de la Nación se ha orientado hacia la diversificación de fuentes de
financiamiento, resaltando la importancia de contar con un mercado doméstico sólido y profundo para
evitar la vulnerabilidad frente a choques externos. En este contexto, el desarrollo de una estrategia de
emisión de deuda pública ha permitido que Colombia cuenta con una de las curvas de rendimiento más
desarrolladas en toda la región y, se mantienen los esfuerzos por consolidar el mercado de deuda pública
interna a través del fortalecimiento del mercado de TES el cual ha alcanzado niveles importantes de
liquidez y profundidad.

Sobra anotar, que adicional a estas medidas, el sector cooperativo financiero, el mercado de valores, la
banca pública y, en general, el sector financiero, han sido objeto de un permanente seguimiento con el fin
de proponer y realizar ajustes normativos necesarios para promover su desarrollo y adecuar nuestra
normatividad a los estándares internacionales, tanto en el ámbito del mercado de capitales como en el del
mercado intermediado. Así mismo, estableciendo políticas que propicien estabilidad y claridad en las
reglas que regulan la actividad financiera, estableciendo derroteros en materia de regulación.

Como resultado de muchas de estas acciones, las carteras crediticias de los bancos presentan uno de los
niveles más altos de crecimiento de los últimos años, jalonado principalmente por el crédito comercial,
dado el dinamismo de los recursos dirigidos a las PYMES, y el crédito de consumo, dada la mayor
confianza de los hogares y la recuperación de la demanda agregada. La calidad de cartera se sitúa en los
niveles antes de la crisis financiera, como consecuencia del mayor esfuerzo en provisiones y el
saneamiento de los balances. El nivel de solvencia del sector se mantiene en niveles altos, evidenciando
mayor capacidad de ofrecer recursos, dada su solidez patrimonial. Y, estos buenos resultados les ha
permitido recuperar a la banca sus niveles de rentabilidad observados antes de la crisis de 1998-99.

A pesar de este evidente proceso de recuperación, es necesario anotar que el sistema y en general el
Gobierno aún enfrentan retos significativos, particularmente aquellos relacionados con el fortalecimiento
institucional de las autoridades de regulación y supervisión así como, aspectos que propendan por la
profundización financiera. Lo anterior, sin perder de vista los cambios que se están dando en la estructura
del sector financiero, dado los procesos de fusiones y adquisiciones que buscan eficiencia e incremento
en la cobertura por el uso eficiente de las redes y líneas de negocios bancarios que, en últimas, redundará
en beneficio de los usuarios por la posibilidad de acceso a servicios financieros.

Por lo anterior, y con el fin de consolidar estos objetivos, el Gobierno Nacional continúa promoviendo
acciones en esta dirección y sigue comprometido con la integración adecuada entre el sector bancario
intermediado y el mercado de valores, a fin de garantizar la estabilidad del mercado financiero.

Muchas de las medidas y políticas descritas anteriormente se desarrollaron en el marco de los Programas
de desarrollo del sector financiero suscritas entre el Banco Mundial y el Gobierno colombiano por tanto,
los resultados de desempeño positivo del sector financiero corroboran la bondad y oportunidad de estos
programas y, nos permiten calificar los mismos como exitosos. El acompañamiento de la Unidad Ejecutora
del Banco Mundial fue importante en la consecución de estos objetivos por tanto, resulta pertinente



                                                     - 36 -

agradecer y reconocer el acompañamiento y compromiso permanente de los técnicos del Banco Mundial
para el éxito de los Programas Sectoriales de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero.

Cabría destacar, además, los resultados alcanzados al interior del Gobierno relacionados con la
coordinación entre las distintas entidades nacionales con competencias en los dos programa, aspecto que
contribuyo a finalizar exitosamente los mismos. En efecto, en cada uno de los dos programas no solo el
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público tuvo responsabilidades directas en el cumplimiento de
compromisos frente al Banco Mundial sino que otras entidades como las Superintendencias Bancaria y de
Valores, FOGFIN, Viceministerio de Vivienda, Banco de la República, entre otros, acompañaron estos
Programas de forma permanente.

Como se puede observar, el compromiso y coordinación permanente entre los técnicos del Banco Mundial
y las distintas entidades del Gobierno, jugaron un papel fundamental en el desarrollo de dichos
programas.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


                                                  Table 8: Colombia ­ Selected Economic Indicators

                                                                              1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005*
 National income and prices
 Nominal GDP (USD billions)                                                    91.1   80.9   83.8   82     81.6   80     97.4  112.3
 Real GDP growth (% p.a.)                                                     0.6%   -4.2%  2.9%   1.5%   1.9%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%
 CPI inflation (period average)                                               16.7%  9.2%   8.7%   7.6%   7.0%   6.5%   5.5%   5.0%
 Nominal 90-day deposit rate (% p.a.)                                         34.1%  15.8%  13.4%  11.5%  7.7%   7.9%   7.7%

 Saving and investment
 Gross national saving (% of GDP)                                             14.3%  13.7%  14.6%  13.2%  12.6%  13.5%  12.9%  12.5%
 Gross domestic investment (% of GDP)                                         19.6%  12.9%  13.7%  14.5%  14.2%  14.9%  14.0%  15.3%

 External sector
 Trade balance (% of GDP)                                                                   3.1%   0.7%   0.3%   0.5%   1.0%   -1.3%
 Current account balance (% of GDP)                                           -5.3%  0.2%   0.9%   -1.4%  -1.7%  -1.5%  -1.0%  -2.8%
 Exchange rate COP/USD (end of period)                                        1,542  1,874  2,229  2,291  2,865  2,778  2,390  2,368
 Gross international reserves (in months of imports)                           6.6    6.7    6.8    8.0    7.8    6.6    7.2    6.5

 Public sector
 Nonfinancial public sector - primary balance (% of GDP)                      -1.3%  -2.6%  0.9%   1.5%   0.4%   1.7%   2.7%   2.7%
 Nonfinancial public sector - overall balance (% of GDP)                      -4.6%  -6.5%  -3.5%  -3.5%  -4.2%  -3.2%  -1.7%  -2.5%
 Combined public sector balance (% of GDP)                                    -3.8%  -5.5%  -3.4%  -3.2%  -3.7%  -2.7%  -1.3%  -2.5%

 Debt
 Total external debt (% of GDP)                                               36.3%  42.5%  46.1%  47.5%  52.3%  46.0%  37.1%  35.9%
 Total public debt (% of GDP)                                                 29.9%  39.8%  47.7%  51.7%  60.2%  56.0%  52.9%  50.4%
                                    of which: domestic (% of GDP)                            21.4%  23.2%  28.3%  26.4%  28.8%  27.7%
                                     of which: external (% of GDP)                           26.3%  28.5%  31.9%  29.6%  24.1%  22.7%


 * 2005 figures are either projections or (where applicable) latest available




Source: IMF




                                                                                      - 37 -

                             Table 9: Colombian Banking System ­ Balance Sheet (in COP$ Million)


                                                                                                                                                         As % of
                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                              Dec-98      Dec-99       Dec-00       Dec-01       Dec-02       Dec-03         Dec-04         Jul-05       Assets

 Liquid Assets                               4,970,706  5,764,515    5,407,396    5,223,235    5,627,375    6,423,251       7,611,297     6,673,481       5.5%

 Securities                                  9,387,825  12,065,639   17,165,071   22,163,053   25,069,639   29,004,197     37,147,426     38,876,945     32.1%

 Net Loans & Leases                         51,040,036  48,469,259   44,300,768   44,097,631   46,436,319   49,626,725     59,815,511     65,428,445     54.0%

       Commercial - Gross                   28,188,034  28,156,877   27,732,713   27,829,868   31,072,238   33,381,563     42,213,989     45,197,471     37.3%

       Consumer - Gross                      9,531,192  6,853,447    6,665,979    7,458,271    7,854,750    9,586,725      12,673,771     14,894,256     12.3%

       Microcredit - Gross                       0           0            0            0        389,713      568,029         841,081      1,091,778       0.9%

       Mortgages - Gross                    15,478,889  16,004,606   12,853,196   12,404,667   10,914,861   9,626,295       7,087,884     7,227,185       6.0%

       Provisions                           (2,158,079) (2,545,670)  (2,951,120)  (3,595,176)  (3,795,243)  (3,535,887)    (3,001,213)   (2,982,244)     -2.5%

 Other Assets                               13,996,025  13,746,373   13,516,462   12,760,287   12,052,123   12,349,115     10,359,525     10,150,323      8.4%

 TOTAL ASSETS                               79,394,592  80,045,786   80,389,697   84,244,205   89,185,456   97,403,289    114,933,759    121,129,194     100.0%



 Deposits                                   45,839,759  49,355,959   50,572,079   55,123,214   58,052,286   62,669,458     75,933,343     80,700,046     66.6%

 Funding from Credit Institutions           14,171,614  13,799,519   13,676,457   12,589,425   13,779,877   15,950,110     15,629,002     15,561,945     12.8%

 Debt Borrowing                              6,366,231  4,114,781    2,871,277    2,526,418    2,480,850    2,241,236       3,367,844     3,914,800       3.2%

 Other Liabilities                           4,614,971  3,952,636    4,169,360    4,588,265    5,048,287    5,283,350       6,080,150     6,610,894       5.5%

 TOTAL LIABILITIES                          70,992,575  71,222,894   71,289,173   74,827,323   79,361,300   86,144,154    101,010,338    106,787,685     88.2%

 Equity                                      8,402,017  8,822,892    9,100,524    9,416,882    9,824,156    11,259,134     13,923,420     14,341,509     11.8%

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH            79,394,592  80,045,786   80,389,697   84,244,205   89,185,455   97,403,289    114,933,759    121,129,194     100.0%


Source: Superintendencia Bancaria, World Bank analysis


                       Table 10: Colombian Banking System ­ Income Statement (in COP$ Million)

                                                                                                                                                         As % of
                                                                                                                                             Jul-05       Total
                                             Dec-98        Dec-99        Dec-00       Dec-01       Dec-02        Dec-03       Dec-04     (annualized)    Assets
 Interest Income from Loans & Leases        15,504,120   12,736,691    8,667,706     8,290,826    7,373,190     7,641,229   8,985,291     9,747,827       8.0%
       Interest Income Past Due              493,466       489,148       275,665     221,320       211,551       222,609      254,307       251,369       0.2%
 Interest Expense                          (12,221,027) (10,307,280)  (5,841,982)   (5,761,966)  (4,419,064)   (3,983,184)  (4,572,978)   (4,929,233)     -4.1%
       Deposits                            (8,168,443)   (7,188,447)  (3,883,802)   (4,032,062)  (3,134,590)   (2,753,247)  (3,108,253)   (3,415,576)     -2.8%
       Funding from Credit Institutions    (2,273,256)   (1,746,822)  (1,415,920)   (1,272,881)   (908,929)     (903,868)   (1,005,191)    (991,813)      -0.8%
       Debt Borrowing                      (1,603,611)   (1,200,674)    (431,289)    (356,532)    (280,411)     (219,414)    (298,606)     (327,647)      -0.3%
       Other                                (175,717)     (171,337)     (110,972)    (100,491)     (95,133)     (106,656)    (160,928)     (194,196)      -0.2%
 Net Interest Income from Loans &
 Leases                                     3,283,093     2,429,411    2,825,724     2,528,860    2,954,126     3,658,045   4,412,313     4,818,594       4.0%

 Income from Securities                     1,670,942     1,854,097    1,843,769     2,266,336    2,365,513     2,806,440   3,791,521     4,466,125       3.7%
 Other Net Non-Interest Income              1,856,122     2,044,734    2,026,867     2,265,628    2,397,829     2,727,804   2,489,173     2,353,364       1.9%
       Fees and Commissions                 1,178,534     1,376,426    1,585,401     1,701,949    1,891,341     2,085,167   2,223,131     2,342,973       1.9%
       Trading (FX, Derivatives)             181,868       244,964       160,589     282,314       226,387       323,057      233,369      (22,742)       0.0%
       Leasing                               495,720       423,345       280,877     281,365       280,101       319,580      32,673        33,133        0.0%
 Gross Income                               6,810,156     6,328,242    6,696,360     7,060,825    7,717,468     9,192,289   10,693,007    11,638,083      9.6%

 Operating Expenses                        (4,801,461)   (5,099,436)  (5,357,609)   (5,231,121)  (5,484,051)   (5,656,650)  (5,780,437)   (5,971,296)     -4.9%
 Net Operating Income Before
 Depreciation and Provisions                2,008,695     1,228,807    1,338,750     1,829,704    2,233,417     3,535,638   4,912,570     5,666,787       4.7%

 Depreciation and Amortization              (886,361)     (938,025)     (917,920)    (812,339)    (741,065)     (754,096)    (709,316)     (706,637)      -0.6%
 Net Operating Income Before
 Provisions                                 1,122,334      290,782       420,831     1,017,364    1,492,353     2,781,543   4,203,254     4,960,150       4.1%

 Net Provisions                            (2,037,260)   (2,598,230)  (1,513,214)    (271,220)     159,786      (89,831)     (240,894)     (432,713)      -0.4%
       Gross Provisions                    (2,786,165)   (3,973,116)  (3,337,535)   (2,212,664)  (1,854,525)   (2,027,134)  (2,199,519)   (2,138,541)     -1.8%
       Recoveries                            748,905      1,374,886    1,824,321     1,941,444    2,014,311     1,937,302   1,958,625     1,705,828       1.4%
 Net Operating Income After Provisions      (914,926)    (2,307,449)  (1,092,383)    746,144      1,652,138     2,691,711   3,962,360     4,527,437       3.7%

 Inflation Adjustment                       (215,018)     (126,621)     (123,858)        0            0             0            0            0           0.0%
 Extraordinary Items                        (482,820)     (165,390)     (357,871)    (239,922)    (303,478)     (281,333)    (187,306)     (44,697)       0.0%
 Net Income Before Tax                     (1,612,764)   (2,599,460)  (1,574,113)    506,222      1,348,661     2,410,378   3,775,054     4,482,740       3.7%

 Income Tax                                 (330,126)     (211,288)     (282,077)    (403,916)    (429,613)     (605,177)    (875,071)    (1,129,093)     -0.9%
 Net Income After Tax                      (1,942,890)   (2,810,748)  (1,856,191)    102,306       919,047      1,805,202   2,899,983     3,353,646       2.8%




Source: Superintendencia Bancaria, World Bank analysis




                                                                                      - 38 -

                                    Table 11: Colombian Banking System ­ Selected Financial Ratios

                                                                                                                                        Jul-05
                                                      Dec-98     Dec-99      Dec-00      Dec-01     Dec-02      Dec-03      Dec-04   (annualized)
 NOMINAL GROWTH RATES
 Gross Loans & Leases                                              -4%         -7%         1%         5%          6%         18%        15%
 Deposits                                                          8%          2%          9%         5%          8%         21%        11%
 Total Assets                                                      1%          0%          5%         6%          9%         18%         9%

 AS % OF GDP
 Gross Loans & Leases                                   38%        34%         27%         25%        25%         23%        25%        24%
 Deposits                                               33%        33%         29%         29%        28%         27%        30%        29%
 Total Assets                                           57%        53%         46%         45%        44%         42%        45%        43%

 SOLVENCY
 Net Worth/Total Assets                               10.6%      11.0%       11.3%       11.2%      11.0%       11.6%       12.1%      11.8%
 Capital Adequacy Ratio                                          10.9%       13.2%       13.3%      12.5%       13.1%       13.8%      14.4%

 PROFITABILITY
 Return on Average Assets (ROAA)                       -2.5%      -3.5%       -2.3%       0.1%       1.1%        1.9%        2.7%       2.8%
 Return on Average Net Worth (ROAE)                   -21.0%     -32.6%      -20.7%       1.1%       9.6%       17.1%       23.0%      23.7%
 Net Interest Margin (Net Interest Income/Average
 Assets)                                               4.1%       3.0%        3.5%        3.1%       3.4%        3.9%        4.2%       4.1%

 EFFICIENCY
 Cost-Income Ratio (Operating Expenses/Gross Income)    71%        81%         80%         74%        71%         62%        54%        51%
 Operating Expenses/Average Assets                                6.4%        6.7%        6.4%       6.3%        6.1%        5.4%       5.1%

 ASSET QUALITY
 Past Due Loans/Total Gross Loans                     10.7%      13.6%       11.0%        9.7%       8.7%        6.8%        3.3%       3.3%
 Non-Performing Loans/Total Gross Loans                          16.3%       16.4%       15.4%      13.6%       10.5%        5.8%       5.0%
 Loan Loss Provisions/Total Gross Loans                4.1%       5.0%        6.2%        7.5%       7.6%        6.7%        4.8%       4.4%
 Loan Loss Provisions/Non-Performing Loans                         31%         38%         49%        56%         64%        82%        88%
 Gross Loan Composition
       Commercial                                       53%        55%         59%         58%        62%         63%        67%        66%
       Consumer                                         18%        13%         14%         16%        16%         18%        20%        22%
       Microcredit                                      0%         0%          0%          0%         1%          1%         1%          2%
       Mortgages                                        29%        31%         27%         26%        22%         18%        11%        11%

 OTHER INDICATORS
 Public Sector Exposure                              8,916,693  10,838,815  17,074,090  21,080,828 23,008,626  25,119,342    NA          NA
 Public Sector Exposure/Total Assets                  11.2%      13.5%       21.2%       25.0%      25.8%       25.8%




Source: Superintendencia Bancaria, IMF




                                                                                 - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



                       Colombia: Outcome Indicators for PFSAL II

                Expected Outcomes                             Latest Available Outcome Indicators

MACROECONOMIC POLICY ENVIRONMENT ­ Policy Objective: Maintenance of a sound
macroeconomic policy framework
Increased economic growth and private sector            Real GDP growth of 4.0 percent in 2003 and 2004,
investment                                              which is higher than anticipated at Program's
                                                        origination; private sector investment rose to 15.3
                                                        percent of GDP in early 2005 compared to 14.2
                                                        percent of GDP in 2002; inflation has dropped to 5.0
                                                        percent in early 2005, down from 7.0 percent in
                                                        2002.
Reduction of fiscal deficit and reliance on long term Combined public sector deficit fell to 1.3 percent of
debt financing                                          GDP in 2004 (although this is expected to rise in
                                                        2005), down from 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002;
                                                        public debt has dropped by 10 percentage points
                                                        between 2002 and 2005, while its composition has
                                                        shifted towards a greater proportion of domestic
                                                        debt.

COMPONENT I: BANK REGULATION AND RESOLUTION ­ Policy Objective: Upgrading the
Banking, Supervisory and Institutional Framework
Stronger bank financials and increased financing        As per table 1 and section 10, profitability has
activity                                                improved noticeably, capital adequacy has remained
                                                        high in spite of progressively stricter market risk
                                                        capital requirements, loan quality has improved and
                                                        banks have become more efficient
Identification and removal of conflicts of interest and Conflicts of interest per the relevant regulation are
related party risks                                     being reported and scrutinized, although it is up to
                                                        the SB itself to identify and review transactions
                                                        between non-bank affiliates where ownership interest
                                                        is less than 50 percent and are therefore not required
                                                        to be reported
Early correction of adverse financial trends            SB has intensified the examination and application of
                                                        disciplinary rules, with 36 resolutions of disciplinary
                                                        actions in 2003, 62 in 2004, and 92 in Jan-August
                                                        2005; of these, the Appeals Group modified or
                                                        revoked the following percentage of disciplinary
                                                        actions: 15 percent in 2003, 22 percent in 2004 and
                                                        26 percent in Jan-August 2005

COMPONENT I: BANK REGULATION AND RESOLUTION ­ Policy Objective: Upgrading the
Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance Operational Framework


                                                     - 40 -

Reduction of State interests in intervened financial   A new bank (GRANBANCO) was formed from
institutions                                           BANCAFE and is expected to be sold by 2007;
                                                       pension liabilities remained with BANCAFE and that
                                                       entity is in process of liquidation; the financial
                                                       performance of this bank has improved substantially
                                                       in recent years
                                                       GRANAHORRAR ­ the bank was privatized on 31
                                                       October 2005 in an auction won by Spanish bank
                                                       BBVA for an amount of 970 billion pesos; its
                                                       financial performance has also improved
                                                       substantially in recent years
                                                       BANAGRARIO ­ its financial performance has
                                                       improved substantially in recent years
                                                       IFI ­ has been liquidated and its second-tier
                                                       operations transferred to BANCOLDEX
Reduction of fiscal liabilities                        Through FOGAFIN management, public sector
                                                       liabilities arising from financial sector support
                                                       operations have fallen from 6.3 percent to 2.6 percent
                                                       of 2004 GDP (see table 2).
Successful bank interventions and deposit insurance No actions to intervene a bank have been necessary
                                                       during the period of the program

COMPONENT II: HOUSING FINANCE ­ Policy Objective: Upgrading the
Regulatory/Operational Framework of the Mortgage Market and Improving Access to Credit
Increased home ownership                               Financial system credit to housing stood at 6.5
                                                       percent of GDP in 2003 and declined to 5.8 percent
                                                       in 2004; however, it has partly recovered during the
                                                       first half of 2005 (see table 3). Earlier figures on
                                                       housing finance are available only for the banking
                                                       system and (if one includes the securitized portfolio)
                                                       show a mild decline over time.
                                                       Quality of mortgage loan portfolio of the banking
                                                       system has improved: non-performing mortgage
                                                       loans as a percent of total mortgage loans fell from
                                                       24.6 percent in December 2002 to 8.6 percent in June
                                                       2005
                                                       As per Table 3, UVR spreads for non-VIS loans
                                                       have declined by about one percentage point between
                                                       2002 and 2004; given that inflation has also dropped
                                                       over this time period, the absolute decline in
                                                       mortgage borrowing rates has been even higher
Increased access to housing credit by underserved      Micro housing finance is still minimal, as per the
segments of the population (micro housing finance)     voluntary agreement between banks and the
                                                       government (about 0.5 percent of banks' loan
                                                       portfolio).
Reduced time to foreclosure of mortgaged properties Time required to seize property in foreclosure is
                                                       reported recently to have been reduced from about 50
                                                       to 32 months, although the relevant sample remains



                                                    - 41 -

                                                    relatively small.
Development of risk management tools for the        One of the biggest mortgage banks (DAVIVIENDA)
housing finance markets                             has purchased the interest rate option offered by
                                                    FRECH to cover about US$250 million of its
                                                    mortgage loans; however, no other bank has yet
                                                    using this instrument
Sustainable growth of the primary and enhanced      By 2004, securitized mortgages represented 26.0
liquidity of the secondary mortgage market          percent of total financial system credit to housing
                                                    (see table 3).

COMPONENT III: NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (INSURANCE, PENSIONS,
TRUSTS) ­ Policy Objective: Upgrading the Regulatory Framework for Risk Management and
Capital Adequacy of the Non Bank Service Institutions
Enhanced solvency of insurance industry             Solvency margins for the general insurance industry
                                                    have increased from 41.3 percent in 2000 to 58.9
                                                    percent in 2004, and for life insurance from 38.8
                                                    percent in 2000 to 45.2 percent in 2004 (see table 4).
Orderly exit of non-viable insurance companies      The number of general insurance companies has
                                                    decreased from 27 in 2000 to 24 in 2004; for life
                                                    insurance, the number also decreased from 23 to 20;
                                                    however, this does not necessarily reflect exit of
                                                    non-viable insurance companies
Increased use of personal and property insurance    Slight increase in the premiums to GDP ratio for
                                                    general insurance (See table 4).
Pension and trust companies are adequately          Disclosure of returns included in Fact Sheets
capitalized with improved policies to manage        published by each fund. However, regulators have
financial risks                                     not yet determined format for disclosure of market
                                                    risk

COMPONENT IV: CAPITAL MARKETS ­ Policy Objective: Upgrading the Regulatory
Framework for the Governance, Transparency, Operations and Liquidity of the Securities Market
Increased issuance of securities                    Issuance of new securities, particularly on the
                                                    equities side, has declined during 2001 ­ 2004 (see
                                                    table 6).
                                                    Volume of trading in secondary market has increased
                                                    significantly, but remains dominated by government
                                                    securities (see table 6).
Enhanced integrity of securities market             Disciplinary actions by SV:
                                                    2002: 25 sanctions, of which 23 were fines and 2
                                                    involved revocation of registration.
                                                    2003: 19 sanctions, of which 16 were fines, 2
                                                    involved revocation of registration, and 1 suspension.
                                                    2004: 20 sanctions, of which all were fines
Increased participation in collective investment    Size of pension fund assets relative to GDP increased
schemes                                             from 9.6 percent in 2001 to 15.3 percent in 2005 (see
                                                    table 5).




                                                 - 42 -

COMPONENT V: THE GOVERNMENT DEBT AND MONEY MARKETS ­ Policy Objective:
Implementation of a Public Debt Issuance Strategy to Improve the Functioning of the Fixed Income
Market
Regular issuance program of domestic government      Short-term government securities issuance has been
securities and their increased trading leads to a    increased according to the public debt strategy plan.
reliable estimate of the yield curve                 As of June 2004, Treasury made weekly issuance of
                                                     80 billion pesos. Starting in February 2005, a four
                                                     week issue of 80 billion per week all with the same
                                                     maturity date provided additional liquidity; these
                                                     amounts were subsequently increased to 100 billion
                                                     and then 120 billion per week. In October 2005, the
                                                     government will introduce the 180-day TES.
                                                     With the successful development of a more liquid
                                                     short-term market for Treasury Bills, it has been
                                                     possible to construct a reliable government securities
                                                     yield curve that is made available through the
                                                     Colombian Stock Exchange web site (see Table 7).
                                                     Government has published a long-term calendar
                                                     through December 2011 in order to provide guidance
                                                     to the market on its scheduled issuance of securities
                                                     by tenor




                                                  - 43 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable.




                                      - 44 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 45 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               8/2003                    4    1 Team Leader, 1 Financial
                                              Officer, 1 Insurance Specialist, 1
                                              Housing Finance Specialist
               12/2003                   3    1 Team Leader, 1 Financial
                                              Officer, 1 Housing Finance
                                              Specialist
               2/2004                    3    1 Team Leader, 2 Financial
                                              Economist,

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               8/2004                    3    1 Team Leader, 1 Financial
                                              Economist, 1 Lawyer

 Supervision
               11/2004                    3   1 Team Leader, 1 Team                   S               S
                                              member and 1 Legal
                                              Specialist
               12/2004                    3   1 Team Leader, 1 Team Member            S               S
                                              and 1 Consultant
               1/2005                     2   1 Team Leader, 1 Sr.Financial           S               S
                                              Economist

 ICR
               8/2005                    1     Consultant who is preparing
                                               the ICR
               9/2005                    1     1 Team Member
               10/2005                   1     1 Team Leader



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              44.12                            180.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       1                               4.5
  Supervision                              5.67                             18.5
  ICR                                      10.7                             31.9
  Total                                   61.49                            235.6




                                               - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Expansion of Access to
Financial Services
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Clavijo, Sergio, M Janna, and Santiago Munoz, The Housing Market in Colombia:
Socioeconomic and Financial Determinants, Inter-American Development Bank, January 2005.

FOGAFIN, Informe de Gestión 2004, March 2005.

FOGAFIN, Plan de Optimización y Enajenación de los bancos Públicos, August 2004.

FOGAFIN, Resumen Operaciones de Apoyo al Sistema Financiero, 1998 ­ 2004, April 2005.

FOGAFIN, Últimos Pasos en la Estrategia Para el Aprovechamiento de Recursos Concentrados
en la Banca Pública, August 2005.

Gutiérrez, Juan Camilo, Experience of a Centralized Valuation: Colombia, Banco de la
Republica, 2004.

IMF, Colombia: 2005 Article IV Consultation, May 2005.

IMF, Colombia: Selected Issues, May 2005.

IMF, Colombia: Financial System Stability Assessment Update, August 2005.

Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, Financiación de Vivienda, August 25,
2005.

Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Publico, Money Markets en Colombia, presentation, 2005.

Superintendencia Bancaria de Colombia, Modelo de Referencia de Cartera Comercial, July 2005.

Superintendencia Bancaria de Colombia, Reporte de Estabilidad Financiera, December 2004.

Superintendencia de Valores, The Colombian Securities Market, August 2005.

World Bank, ICR for Colombia FSAL, December 2002.

World Bank, Reform Roadmap: Strategic Choices in Developing Colombia's Debt Markets,
February 2003.

World Bank, Program Document PFSAL I, Report No. P 25472-CO, April 3, 2003.

World Bank, ICR for PFSAL I, December 2003.

World Bank, Colombia ­ Supervision of Financial Conglomerates ­ Summary Draft Distance
Report, June 2004.



                                             - 49 -

World Bank, Stocktaking Report: The Recovery of Colombia's Financial System and Remaining
Vulnerabilities, July 2004.

World Bank, Program Document PFSAL II, Report No. 29666-CO, August 25, 2004.

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Colombia, Report No. 32999-CO,
September 9, 2005.

Miscellaneous correspondence and documents (including BTOR, ISR and PSR) in PFSAL project
files.




                                           - 50 -

Additional Annex 8. Policy Matrix for the Programmatic FSAL Operations

                                                                 Policy Matrix
     PRIOR ACTIONS             TRIGGERS FOR THE            RESULTS / OUTPUTS                PRIOR ACTIONS                 EXPECTED
   UNDER THE FIRST                    SECOND               TO-DATE                             UNDER THE             OUTCOMES FROM
    PROGRAMMATIC                 PROGRAMMATIC                                                    SECOND                THE PROGRAM
             FSAL                        FSAL                                              PROGRAMMATIC
                                                                                                   FSAL

 MACROECONOMIC POLICY ENVIRONMENT
 Policy Objective: Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework.
 Responsible Government Agency: MHCP
 The Borrower through         The Borrower through         Annual real GDP growth        The Borrower has         Increased economic growth
 MoF has maintained a         MoF, has maintained a        increased to 3.7% by end      maintained a stable      and private sector
 sound macroeconomic          sound macroeconomic          2003, and external capital    macroeconomic            investment. Reduction of
 program maintained with      program with appropriate     inflows rose while exports    environment through      fiscal deficit and reliance on
 appropriate fiscal,          fiscal, monetary, inflation  were up by 9%. Inflation      the implementation of    long term debt financing, to
 monetary, inflation,         and exchange policies.       declined to 6.5% and the      sound fiscal, inflation  increase stability.
 reserves and exchange                                     combined public sector        and other policies
 policies.                                                 deficit fell to 2.8% of GDP   including
                                                           as income tax receipts rose   supplementary fiscal
                                                           by 16%.                       legislative and
                                                                                         regulatory measures.


 I. BANK REGULATION AND RESOLUTION


 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORMED FINANCIAL SYSTEM LAW TO ENSURE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
 Policy Objective: Upgrading the Banking Regulatory, Supervisory, and Institutional Framework

 Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, SB

                                                           (i) The net return on         The Borrower: (a)        Banks and other credit
 The Borrower has enacted     The Borrower through: (a)    average earning assets of     through MoF has          institutions are well
 Law 795-2003 to regulate,    MoF has issued Decrees       the banking system            issued Decree Number     capitalized and providing
 inter alia: (a) the          for implementing the         increased from 1.1% at        2588, dated August 13,   increased credit to
 independence of decision     financial reform law and     end-2002 to 2.7% by May       2004, to regulate, inter borrowers and private
 making by FIs' of boards     (b) SB has issued circulars  2004.                         alia: (i) the orderly    investors for new business
 of directors; (b) the        and regulatory               (ii) The non performing       resolution of insolvent  start-ups and expansions.
 enhancement of the           amendments to adapt          loans ratio decreased from    banks operating in the   The sector is more
 existing code of conduct     existing regulations to the  13.6% to 9.2% during the      Borrower's territory;    competitive and is attracting
 for managers and directors   supervision of financial     same period.                  and (ii) the procedures  foreign and direct investors.
 at FIs; (c) the integration  conglomerates and related    (iii) The capital adequacy    for the transfer of      Banking stability and
 of sanctions rules           parties.                     ratio (capital as a % of risk assets (including the    supporting financial and
 applicable to                                             weighted assets) increased    use of asset             balance sheet strength
 administrative officers,                                  from 12.5% to 14.5%           securitization vehicles) indicators become evident.
 board directors and          The Borrower though the      during a period in which      and liabilities from
 auditors at FIs; (d) the     SB has demonstrated: (a)     stricter capital and loan     said insolvent banks to  Transparent and
 powers of SB to conduct      the application and          classification standards      acquiring banks; (b)     accountable identification
 supervision of consolidated  enforcement of the Law       were implemented.             through SB has issued    and removal of conflicts of
 financial groups including   795-2003 via actions such    (iv) The Banking              an Instructivo Interno,  interest and related party
 authority for SB to inspect  as specifying and            Superintendency, between      dated August 10, 2004,   risks is achieved. Evidence
 companies in those           integrating in a sequenced   May 2003 and June 2004,       setting forth the        of their reduction within the
 financial groups not         manner, prompt corrective    applies fifty three sanction  guidelines for the       financial system, is
 directly under its           actions to be applied, and   actions and penalties to      application of           established via the SB's
 supervision; (e) the         developing procedural        credit institutions that were disciplinary rules       record of application of the
 prevention of conflicts of   handbooks specifying         not complying with legal      (including monetary      new corporate governance
 interest related to the      enforcement of remedial      and prudential norms.         fines) applicable to     regulations for the financial
 operations of FIs; (f) the   actions under a graduated                                  SB's supervised          sector.
 enhancement of SB's          regime of sanctions, and     The Banking Superintendent    entities; and (c)
 mechanisms to intervene      (b) the effectiveness and    has approved a modified       through SB has
 FIs and apply sanctions.     improvement of               regulatory circular to        published on SB's        Application of the enhanced
                              supervision via progress     incorporate procedures for                             banking supervision powers
 The Borrower, (a) through                                                                        website, on
                              on benchmarks                monitoring, assuring oversight,official                is evidenced, permitting the
 SB, has issued Circular                                                                 August 12, 2004, a new
                              established under it's       and conducting consolidated                            early correction of adverse
 Externa No. 046, dated                                                                  draft Circular Externa
                              Strategic Plan, including    supervision of financial                               financial trends via the
 October 29, 2002, which                                                                 delineating banks'
                              the improvement of risk                                                             prompt application of
 strengthens existing                                                                    capital exposure risks
                              assessments made for                                                                sanctions and fines
 regulations that prevent                                                                within related
                              financial institutions, the
 money laundering in the                                                                 economic and financial
                              conducting of                                              conglomerates.
                              consolidated financial




                                                                           - 51 -

                                                                 Policy Matrix
    PRIOR ACTIONS              TRIGGERS FOR THE            RESULTS / OUTPUTS TO-                       PRIOR                 EXPECTED
  UNDER THE FIRST                      SECOND              DATE                                      ACTIONS            OUTCOMES FROM
   PROGRAMMATIC                  PROGRAMMATIC                                                       UNDER THE             THE PROGRAM
           FSAL                          FSAL                                                         SECOND
                                                                                                  PROGRAMMA
                                                                                                     TIC FSAL
Borrower's financial          group examinations, and      conglomerates, related party                              towards mismanaged and
sector, and (b) through the   the investment of            businesses, and computation of                            non complying financial
enactment of Law 795-         resources for SB's           effective capital of financial                            institutions. Graduated and
2003, regulates FIs'          institutional strengthening. institutions within                                       intensifying process of
obligations to directly                                    conglomerates, and has subjected                          sanctions provides evidence
report information on                                      the draft regulation for review by                        of institutional correction or
financial cash transactions                                the financial industry and the SV.                        dissolution of entities
to MoF's anti money                                                                                                  posing insolvency risk, thus
laundering monitoring                                      The SB has developed its internal                         reducing potential costs to
unit.                                                      risk assessment procedures for                            the State. Improved
                                                           evaluating vulnerabilities of                             prudential practices increase
                                                           supervised financial institutions                         the confidence and stability
                                                           and prioritizing the SB's                                 of the financial system, and
                                                           inspection program.                                       permit managed risk taking,
                                                                                                                     allowing channeling of
                                                           The SB has developed an action                            increased credit into the
                                                           plan specifying the human,                                economy.
                                                           budgetary and time resources
                                                           required to complete technical                            Detection of illicit financial
                                                           reviews of banks' internal credit                         activities and cash flows
                                                           risk management models which                              becomes more successful as
                                                           incorporate Basel II orientations,                        regulatory, market
                                                           allowing for full implementation                          monitoring systems, and
                                                           in a prescribed period                                    technology, are improved.
                                                           commensurate with SB's human
                                                           and budgetary resource base and
                                                           capacity.


IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORMED FINANCIAL SYSTEM LAW FOR IMPROVING EFFECTIVENESS OF BANKING
RESOLUTION PROCEDURES
Policy Objective: Upgrading the Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance Operational Framework.
Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, FOGAFIN

The Borrower, through the     The    Borrower     through  The Deposit Insurance          The      Borrower:      (a) Banks are operating safely
enactment of Law 795-         MoF has undertaken a         Agency, FOGAFIN, has           through FOGAFIN has:        and efficiently, increasing
2003, has regulated (a) the   financial sector stability   divested and sold banking      (i)     undertaken      an  savings while channeling
compulsory procedures for     review to assess future      assets previously in State     international competitive   funds toward increased
asset and liability transfers banking    system     health hands. These include           bidding process for the     domestic investment.
and carve-outs from           using projections of: (a)    COP 9.8 billion (US$ 3.8       sale of BANCAFE; and
failing banking               the risks affecting weak     million) of                    (ii) issued an Action Plan,
institutions; (b)             banking institutions under   GRANAHORRAR                    dated August 12, 2004,      Reduction        of     fiscal
FOGAFIN's issuance of         low    economic      growth  mortgage assets during         for      the     continued  liabilities     and     State
guarantees backed with        scenarios; (b) the banking   2003.                          financial     improvement   interests    in   intervened
deposit insurance funds,      sector's     cash      flow                                 and     eventual  sale   or financial    institutions   is
and (c) FOGAFIN's             generation;      (c)     the The portfolio previously       divestment of BANCAFE       achieved via the sale of
powers for swapping           Borrower's    public debt    supported by State relief      and     GRANAHORRAR;        their assets and matching
bonds issued by the           securities      held     by  credits (`alivios') was sold   (b) through MCIT has        liabilities through the new
securitization trust, with    commercial banks and the     in 2003 to 65,000              issued Decree Number        securitization/trust
FOGAFIN bonds.                possible   risks   affecting mortgage holders for COP       2590, dated September 12,   mechanisms.         Evidence
                              said banks as holders of     224 billion (US$ 86            2003,      ordering     the exists of failed banks'
                              said debt securities; and    million). Out of 480 real      dissolution            and  viable        assets/balance
The    Borrower      through  (d) contingency plans to     estate assets at the start of  liquidation of IFI and the  sheets           successfully
MoF      has     issued     a address any potential risks  the year, 239 were sold.       partial transfer of IFI's   transferred     to     private
commitment letter to the      caused by internal and/or                                   assets and liabilities to   sector institutional buyers.
Bank dated March 28,          external factors affecting                                  BANCOLDEX, and              Increased banking strength
2003, to undertake a          the financial sector.                                                                   and     liquidity    of   the
                                                                                                                      remaining solid banks,




                                                                          - 52 -

                                                                Policy Matrix
  PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER                  TRIGGERS FOR           RESULTS / OUTPUTS            PRIOR ACTIONS                  EXPECTED
           THE FIRST                    THE SECOND            TO-DATE                         UNDER THE             OUTCOMES FROM
  PROGRAMMATIC FSAL                  PROGRAMMATIC                                               SECOND                THE PROGRAM
                                              FSAL                                         PROGRAMMATIC
                                                                                                  FSAL
stocktaking review of the           The Borrower through      A financial sector           (c) through MoF        permit the provision of
Borrower's financial sector,        FOGAFIN, has              vulnerability analysis has   has issued Decree      credit to an increased
including, inter alia, a review of: undertaken progressive    been completed and           Number 1450, dated     number of productive
(a) the risks affecting weak        actions in the            endorsed by the SB with      May 29, 2003,          enterprises with cash flow
banking institutions under low      divestment/dismantling    input from MOF and           ordering the           prospects.
economic growth scenarios; (b)      of insolvent State banks, FOGAFIN. The                 assumption of
the banking sector's cash flow      and measures for selling  assessment reviews past      residual debts of IFI. Evidence, if liquidation of
generation; (c) the Borrower's      off assets of said banks  and current weaknesses of                           banks is required, that all
public debt securities held by      to the private sector.    specified financial                                 small depositors covered
commercial banks and the                                      institutions, assesses                              under the insurance
possible risks affecting said                                 potential macroeconomic                             threshold limit are fully
banks as holders of said debt                                 or financial shocks which                           paid out and their balances
securities; and (d) contingency                               could affect the financial                          are protected. Premiums
plans to address any potential                                condition of such                                   charged to financial
risks caused by internal and/or                               institutions, and sets out                          institutions by the State for
external factors affecting the                                contingent strategies for                           deposit insurance, are
financial sector.                                             handling future financial                           applied based on the risk
                                                              sector weaknesses based                             categorization of banks
The Borrower: (a) through IFI's                               on portfolio composition,                           established by the SB.
shareholders assembly of                                      market risks, and
January 27, 2003, has approved                                macroeconomic                                       The divestment, merger
the transfer of IFI's selected                                developments which                                  and liquidation of the
assets and liabilities to                                     vulnerable institutions are                         remaining insolvent State-
BANCOLDEX; and (b) through                                    exposed to.                                         owned banks has been
CONPES Document Number                                                                                            completed, and fiscal
3214 dated January 9, 2003, has                                                                                   contingent liabilities in this
requested FOGAFIN to                                                                                              respect have been reduced
commence the privatization                                                                                        substantially or fully
process of BANCAFE, and (c)                                                                                       eliminated.
through FOGAFIN has selected
an investment firm that will
carry out said privatization.




                                                                         - 53 -

II. HOUSING FINANCE

STRENGTHENING THE HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR AND EXPANSION OF THE MORTGAGE MARKET
Policy Objective: Upgrading the Regulatory/Operational Framework of the Mortgage Market and Improving Access to Credit

Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, FOGAFIN
     PRIOR ACTIONS               TRIGGERS FOR          RESULTS / OUTPUTS TO-           PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER                    EXPECTED
  UNDER THE FIRST                 THE SECOND           DATE                                    THE SECOND               OUTCOMES FROM
   PROGRAMMATIC                PROGRAMMATIC                                             PROGRAMMATIC FSAL                 THE PROGRAM
            FSAL                        FSAL
The Borrower has: (a)         The Borrower though      The FOGAFIN administered        The Borrower: (a) through      Increased home ownership,
enacted Law 794-2003 to,      FOGAFIN, SV and SB,      inflation hedge for mortgage    MoF has issued Decree          especially in the
inter alia, streamline        has taken measures to    borrowers, was implemented      Number 2481, dated             underserved sectors is
banking foreclosure related   increase the             with 15,000 subscribers         September 2, 2003,             evident with consonant
judicial proceedings, and     competitiveness,         covering loans up to US$135     authorizing FINDETER to        increases in family wealth
therefore execute collateral  soundness, efficiency    million equivalent.             onlend funds to banks and      and capital.
in a timely manner; (b)       and transparency of the                                  finance companies operating
through MoF has issued        mortgage industry, and   Thirty issues of mortgage       in the Borrower's territory to Increased access to
Decree No. 710 dated          to improve the           backed securities were          enable them to finance micro   housing credit evidenced
March 20, 2003,               institutional set-up to  completed in 2003 for a total   housing loans, (b) through     by underserved segments
establishing procedures for   support housing micro    of US$ 700 million              FINDETER has issued            of the population. The
finance companies to          finance.                 equivalent. In June 2004, the   Acuerdo Number 001, dated      production of mortgage
obtain financing from                                  first issue of non performing   February 10, 2004,             loans has expanded and
commercial banks so as to     The Borrower through     asset backed securities (US$    implementing a rediscounting   lending margins reduced.
increase housing micro        SV and SB has taken      64 million) took place.         program for said banks and     The micro housing finance
credit lending; (c) enacted   measures to ensure that                                  finance companies to enable    market applied to housing
Law 795-2003 to regulate      secondary mortgage       A comprehensive assessment      them to offer mortgage and     has expanded including
(i) the increase of access to market regulations and   of the tax incentives affecting real estate micro-credits to   housing leasing contracts.
segments of the population    practices are adjusted,  the overall housing finance     lower income communities,
with limited or no access     including improved       sector has been completed by    (c) through MAVDT has          New judicial procedures
to financial services with    securitization           the MOF, including              signed an agreement with the   show evidence of fast and
respect to housing micro      methodologies to         sequenced proposals to          banking industry establishing  efficient sale of loan
credit, and (ii) the          harmonize risk-based     improve their consistency,      a voluntary program to offer   collateral assets, allowing
participation of banks in     capital adequacy norms   efficiency and targeting,       credit to the Borrower's       increased private market
the housing lease market.     and oversight functions  which will constitute           micro-housing finance sector   participation in the
                              between banks and        elements of policy actions for  and to fund FINDETER           absorption of assets of
The Borrower, through: (a)    securitization           future reforms.                 bonds for deployment in the    failed financial institutions,
FOGAFIN has issued            companies.                                               same program, and (d)          and prompt payment of
operational guidelines for a                           The MoF and the Central         through FNG has issued         creditors.
new swap program to                                    Bank restructure the FRECH      Circular Externa Number
protect mortgage                                       swap hedge into an interest     003, dated January 30, 2004,   Mortgage bonds and
borrowers against the risks                            rate options product, after an  announcing the launch of a     mortgage backed securities
of inflation; and (b) the                              agreement on the actuarial      new insurance program based    develop with sufficient
Central Bank has adopted                               methodology and pricing         on actuarially based           liquidity as a sustainable
and published on its web                               parameters reached with the     premiums, to cover finance     funding tool without undue
site, procedures for                                   mortgage finance industry,      companies operating in the     regulatory arbitrage and/or
swapping of mortgage                                   and contracts are subscribed    Borrower's territory against   tax privileges after the
backed securities through                              with mortgage banks to          losses from housing micro      medium term market
the FRECH fund, in order                               protect against interest rate   credits and social housing     development period.
to acquire more liquid                                 risk.                           mortgage loans.
treasury securities.                                                                   (a) The Borrower, through      A package of public policy
                                                       The FRECH liquidity fund to     MoF, has issued Decree         tools to augment the
                                                       permit mortgage securities      Number 2061, dated June        housing finance market
                                                       access to repo markets is fully 24, 2004, setting forth risk-  (e.g.: interest rate hedge,
                                                       approved and operational.       adjusted asset weights for the inflation swap, mortgage
                                                                                       determination of capital       security guarantees,
                                                                                       adequacy under multi-          rationalization of tax
                                                                                       tranche securitized            exemptions) improves the
                                                                                       instruments held by banks      operation, risk
                                                                                       operating in the Borrower's    management and ongoing
                                                                                       territory; and (b) the         sustainable development of
                                                                                       Borrower, through MoF and      the primary and secondary
                                                                                       SV, has issued Resolución      mortgage markets.
                                                                                       Number 0690, dated August
                                                                                       12, 2004 setting forth the
                                                                                       rules for capital allocations
                                                                                       of securitization companies
                                                                                       operating in the Borrower's
                                                                                       territory




                                                                           - 54 -

III. NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (INSURANCE, PENSIONS, TRUSTS)

STRENGTHENING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AND FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS OF THE INSURANCE, TRUSTS, AND PENSION
INDUSTRIES
Policy Objective: Upgrading the Regulatory Framework for Risk Management and Capital Adequacy of the Non Bank Financial Service
Institutions.

Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, SB
    PRIOR ACTIONS               TRIGGERS FOR          RESULTS / OUTPUTS TO-          PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER                     EXPECTED
  UNDER THE FIRST                THE SECOND           DATE                                  THE SECOND                 OUTCOMES FROM
   PROGRAMMATIC               PROGRAMMATIC                                            PROGRAMMATIC FSAL                  THE PROGRAM
           FSAL                       FSAL
The Borrower has enacted     The Borrower through     Regulations on solvency        The Borrower: (a) through       The solvency of the
Law 795-2003 to regulate:    SB has demonstrated (a)  margins and technical          MoF and SV has issued           insurance industry is
(a) MoF's powers to          significant progress in  reserves for the insurance     Resolución Number 0691,         confirmed with respect to
establish solvency margins   the implementation of    industry, by branch of         dated August 12, 2004,          international standards,
and technical reserve of     new insurance            business, have been drafted    setting forth the value-at-risk and the viability and
the insurance industry, (b)  regulations addressing   by the Insurance arm of the    methodologies and               actuarial soundness of the
the minimum capital          solvency margin          SB, and approved by the        regulations for the             industry is established for
requirements for insurers    standards and            Bank Superintendent subject    mandatory reporting of          the risk underwriting
and reinsurers; and (c)      methodologies to         to the final review of the     market risks of investment      business. Corporations
MoF's powers to establish    upgrade the calculation  insurance industry and         portfolios of mutual funds      and households
minimum capital              of technical and         actuarial experts.             subject to SV's supervision;    increasingly rely on
requirements for the         mathematical reserves,                                  (b) through SB has issued       insurance coverage for
different business lines of  and (b) set forth        The SB has provided a policy   Circular Externa Number         personal and property
insurance.                   regulatory               response on each core          031, dated August 9, 2004,      risks.
                             methodologies for        principle with respect to the  setting forth value at risk
                             identifying Values-at-   evaluation report of insurance methodologies and               Insurance companies
                             Risk in the pensions,    sector regulation and its      regulations for the             which only collect
                             trust and insurance      adherence to core principles   mandatory reporting of          premiums and
                             industries' investment   for supervision.               market risks of investment      commissions but have no
                             portfolios.                                             portfolios of insurance         solid actuarial solvency or
                                                                                     companies, AFP's and trusts     risk management culture,
                                                                                     subject to SB's supervision;    either adapt to the new
                                                                                     and (c) through SB has          norms and capitalize
                                                                                     issued Circular Externa         adequately, or are
                                                                                     Number 013, dated March         consolidated and removed
                                                                                     19, 2004, to: (i) regulate the  from the market by the
                                                                                     expansion of AFPs'              regulatory authorities.
                                                                                     investment limits in foreign
                                                                                     securities with specified       Pension, trust and
                                                                                     credit ratings; and (ii) limit  insurance companies are
                                                                                     the share of AFPs               adequately hedged and
                                                                                     investments in related party    capitalized, and have
                                                                                     institutions.                   improved corporate
                                                                                                                     policies to ensure their
                                                                                                                     provision against financial
                                                                                                                     market risks, thus
                                                                                                                     guaranteeing improved
                                                                                                                     protection of client assets,
                                                                                                                     lower costs, increased
                                                                                                                     returns, reduction of
                                                                                                                     liabilities for the State, and
                                                                                                                     expansion of the client
                                                                                                                     industry base.




                                                                          - 55 -

IV. CAPITAL MARKETS

MODERNIZING THE LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR THE SECURITIES MARKET
Policy Objective: Upgrading the Regulatory Framework for the Governance, Transparency, Operations and Liquidity of the Securities Market

Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, SV
    PRIOR ACTIONS                TRIGGERS FOR           RESULTS / OUTPUTS TO-           PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER                      EXPECTED
  UNDER THE FIRST                 THE SECOND            DATE                                    THE SECOND                 OUTCOMES FROM
   PROGRAMMATIC                PROGRAMMATIC                                              PROGRAMMATIC FSAL                   THE PROGRAM
           FSAL                         FSAL
(a) The Borrower, through     The Borrower through       Twenty-eight public offerings  The Borrower, through MoF,       The new capital market
SB, has issued Circular       SV, has implemented a      of securities were made in     has presented to its legislature provides efficient and
Number 033, dated August      new Securities             2003 for an amount of          a bill of law to inter alia      lower cost alternatives to
2, 2002 to update and         regulatory and             US$1.8 billion equivalent, an  amend Law 35-1993,               credit intermediation, thus
adjust market valuation       institutional framework    increase of 19% with respect   including, inter alia: (a) new   improving domestic
regulations; (b) the          covering, inter alia:      to the previous year.          SV supervisory powers; (b)       investment, business
Borrower, through SV, has     (a) Corporate                                             the procedures for the           productivity and enterprise
issued Resolution Number            governance norms     Specific reporting             custody, settlement and          growth.
0550, dated August 2,               including role of    requirements pertaining to     payment systems of the
2002 to regulate a common           the Board,           both credit rating and market  Borrower's securities            Increased issuances of
securities and financial            management,          risk ratings, have been        industry; (c) new                securities on the capital
asset valuation                     auditors, and other  established for the mutual     qualifications for financial     markets and purchases of
methodology to unify                industry officials;  funds and collective           market intermediaries; (d)       securities by investors are
market pricing norms; and                                investment scheme industries.  investor protection rules; and   evident in the expansion of
(c) SB and SV have signed     (b) Securities issuance                                   (e) corporate governance         the capital market,
a memorandum of                     norms and            Uniform asset valuation        norms.                           supported by improved
understanding dated                 disclosure           standards and methodologies                                     rules of disclosure,
November 13, 2002, to,              requirements         have been established by       The Borrower: (a) through        corporate governance,
inter alia, carry out a joint       including            regulation for private sector  MoF and SV has issued            professional qualification
supervision and                     rationalized         fixed income securities.       Resolución Number 513,           of industry participants,
surveillance of FIs and             procedures for                                      dated August 6, 2003,            and improved securities
securities brokers and              issuance; and                                       regulating the operation and     industry trading
dealers, in accordance with                                                             uniform prudential capital       infrastructure.
the procedures set forth                                                                requirements for collective
therein.                      (c) Qualification of                                      investment schemes operating     The funds industry
                                    standards for                                       in the Borrower's territory;     (including mutual funds)
                                    industry                                            (b) through SV has: (i) issued   and its enhanced risk
                                    professionals and                                   Resolución Number 584            management practices, has
                                    entrants.                                           dated September 5, 2003          developed, with increased
                                                                                        specifying the methodology       participation by consumers
                              The Borrower through                                      for the daily market valuation   and investors, based on the
                              the coordination                                          of mutual funds subject to       implementation of
                              between SV and SB, has                                    SV's supervision; and (ii)       consistent regulatory,
                              harmonized the                                            issued Circular Externa          valuation and pricing
                              regulatory and                                            Number 006 dated June 29,        norms across the sub-
                              supervisory framework                                     2004, regulating public          sector.
                              for the mutual and                                        disclosure of information
                              investment funds                                          pertaining to credit ratings,
                              industry -- trust                                         market risks, commission
                              institutions, specialized                                 bases, and returns calculation
                              investment funds and                                      methodologies for the
                              mutual funds under                                        Borrower's mutual funds
                              different supervisory                                     industry.
                              authorities are placed
                              within a consistent
                              framework.

                              The Borrower through
                              SV has implemented
                              valuation guidelines for
                              a range of public
                              securities and private
                              fixed income
                              instruments.




                                                                             - 56 -

V. THE GOVERNMENT DEBT AND MONEY MARKETS

UPGRADING THE POLICY AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET
Policy Objective: Implementation of a Public Debt Issuance Strategy to Improve the Functioning of the Fixed Income Market

Responsible Government Agencies: DGCPT, SV, BRC
    PRIOR ACTIONS                TRIGGERS FOR         RESULTS / OUTPUTS TO-           PRIOR ACTIONS UNDER                    EXPECTED
  UNDER THE FIRST                 THE SECOND          DATE                                    THE SECOND                OUTCOMES FROM
   PROGRAMMATIC                PROGRAMMATIC                                            PROGRAMMATIC FSAL                  THE PROGRAM
           FSAL                        FSAL
(a) The Central Bank's        The Borrower through    A program of weekly             The Borrower, through MoF,      The government debt
board has issued the          MoF, has developed an   issuance of 90 days T-bills     has: (a) issued Resolución      program generates
procedures for said           issuance strategy for   has been implemented with       Number 921, dated April 14,     increased competitiveness
institution's purchase of     government debt         issuance authorization          2004, to establish a public     and pricing transparency in
on-the run securities         developed through a     expanded from COP 5 billion     debt policy committee and       the private bond, notes,
(traded securities reflecting coordinated effort      (US$ 1.9 mn. equivalent) in     setting   forth  it's  precise  and commercial paper
the series most recently      comprising technical    January 2003 to COP 80          functions and responsibilities; market.
issued); (b) the Borrower,    teams from the MoF      billion (US$ 31 mn              and     (b)  implemented     a
through MoF has issued        regulatory units, the   equivalent). 90 day T-bills     strategy    to   expand    the  A regular issuance
Resolution Number 001,        DGCP, and the Central   issued in 2003 amounted to      issuance of 90 day treasury-    program for government
dated January 2, 2003, to     Bank.                   US$ 238 mn. and 180 day T-      bills, including a short term   securities is implemented
regulate, inter alia,                                 bills were US$ 34 mn. In        public securities zero risk     spanning across the yield
primary dealer operations;                            2004 through July, 90 day T-    yield    curve    based     on  curve spectrum, thus
and (c) the Borrower,                                 bill issuance was US$ 661       increased     liquidity   and   engendering the increased
through SV, has issued                                mn.                             secondary     market    price   issuance of private sector
Resolutions Number 0964                                                               formation in the short end of   fixed income securities
and 1047 dated December                               Provisions legislating legal    the market.                     which use the government
13, 2002 and December                                 finality for repurchase, short                                  market as a benchmark.
30, 2002, respectively, to                            term collateralized loan                                        The size and depth of the
regulate the valuation of                             instruments and securities                                      capital market is improved,
domestic treasury                                     swap transactions, have been                                    thus increasing alternative
securities.                                           incorporated in the new                                         funding sources for
                                                      Securities Law presented to                                     businesses and
                                                      Congress.                                                       corporations.




                                                                         - 57 -

- 58 -

