Page  1
29840
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
Country Name: 
 
Republic of Colombia
 
Project Name: 
 
Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
 
Region:    
Latin America and the Caribbean
 
Sector:  
 
Financial Sector
 
Project ID: 
 
 
PE-P082597-LEN-BB
 
Borrower:  
 
Ministry of Finance, Colombia 
 
Executing Agency: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Contact: Mrs. Maria Ines Agudelo 
 
Vice Ministro Técnico 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Carrera 7ª , 6-45, Piso 3 
 
Bogotá, Colombia 
 
Phone: 57-1-350-1238 
 
Date this PID Prepared: 
August 12, 2004
 
Project Board Date:  
September 23, 2004
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background
.
The Colombian economy grew well above 
expectations in 2003 reaching 3.7% of GDP growth.  Though this growth was initially 
concentrated in a few sectors (construction, manufacturing, mining), the expansion 
broadened to other sectors towards the end of the year.  The initial shock caused by the 
Venezuelan crisis and the foreign exchange controls that were imposed there and that 
negatively affected Colombian exporters dissipated quickly as growth in the U.S. picked 
up and overall global economic performance improved.  As the economic expansion 
continues, unemployment eased to its lowest level since the 1998-99 crisis and reached 
about 12 percent in December 2003 from a peak of 20 percent, though the non-seasonally 
adjusted spike usually seen in January was as strong as it has been in recent years, 
bringing unemployment levels back to about 18%.  This has translated in a moderate 
decrease in consumption and consumer confidence in the first quarter of 2004 which is 
expected to be transitory.  Investor confidence remains high and will continue to be 
buoyed by lower interest rates and a general sense of improvement of the security 
situation in the country. 
 
2. 
Capital inflows have continued to grow with net inflows of US$ 600 million in 
the first two months of 2004 compared with an outflow of US$ 80 million during the 
Page  2
-
2
-
same period a year ago, though current account deficits are still projected at above US$ 2 
billion.  The capital inflows though have led to an appreciation of the peso in spite of the 
efforts by the Central Bank, Banco de la Republica (BRC), to prevent this through the 
lowering of interest rates and the accumulation of reserves.  The negative effects of the 
peso appreciation in the export sector has been balanced by the continued improvement 
of the global economy after export earnings in 2003 rose over 9 percent compared to 
2002.  In spite of economic expansion, inflation has continued on a downward track.  In 
2003, inflation was 6.5 percent, down from 7 percent in 2002.  However, it overshot the 
BRC target of 5-6 percent.  The current utilization level of installed capacity remains low 
at 70 percent thus suggesting the current expansion is still far from producing inflationary 
pressures. 
 
3. 
During 2003 the government continued to make progress on fiscal adjustment and 
met the revised target under its two-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) signed with the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) in January 2003.  The combined public-sector deficit 
narrowed to 2.8 percent of GDP, down from 3.6 percent of GDP.  Income tax receipts 
increased by 15.8 percent in nominal terms during 2003 both as a result of the economic 
lift as well as the implementation of the 2002 tax reform that eliminated some income tax 
exemptions and generally enlarged the tax base.  The government exercised restraint in 
its expenditure policies with non-discretionary spending growing essentially at the rate of 
inflation.  Financing of this deficit was facilitated by improvements in the terms on which 
the government can access international financial markets thanks to the improved 
economic outlook.  Coupon rates of Colombian dollar denominated bonds have come 
down from a peak of 11.75 percent in mid-2002 to 8.125 percent for an issue of US$500 
million twenty-year bonds in early 2004.  International bond issuance in 2003 totaled 
$1.54 billion.  Government bond spreads have thus improved and now rank roughly on 
par with Peru and Panama, relatively lower risk countries 
 
4. 
Program Context
.
Growth is expected to continue at least through 2005.  The 
government economic policies and the perceived improvement of the security situation in 
the country continues to generate a sense of confidence.  This is particularly the case in 
the business sector even though consumer confidence and spending decreased slightly in 
the first quarter of 2004 in response to the increase of unemployment in January.  
Provided that that unemployment regains its overall downward trend, as it is expected 
given increases in private investment, GDP growth should remain in the 3.5-4.0 percent 
range both for 2004 and 2005 provided global growth continues and prices of oil, still 
Colombia’s main export in spite of decreasing production, do not tumble. 
5. 
Capital inflows are likely to continue.  Given that interest rates remain higher than 
in the U.S., the Colombian investment climate has improved and the appreciation 
expectation continues, it is likely that the strong inflows observed during the first quarter 
of 2004 will continue.  The adverse effect that this may have in the export sector due to 
the peso appreciation will be balanced by the contribution that these flows will make to 
investment activities.  Furthermore, ongoing negotiations of a free trade agreement with 
the U.S. should strengthen the position of the export sector. 
Page  3
-
3
-
6. 
The fiscal situation is the main source of potential economic vulnerability.  The 
government’s agreement with the IMF calls for continuing to reduce the deficit to 2.4 
percent of GDP by 2005.  However, further fiscal adjustments will be difficult as the 
political environment needed to take these kind of measures is unlikely to be present.  
The legislative agenda during 2004 will be driven by efforts to modify the constitution to 
permit reelection in consecutive periods.  In spite of these difficulties, the government 
will continue to show fiscal restraint and the current agreement with the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) is expected to be renewed after it expires in January 2005. 
7. 
The estimates on the balance of payments are for a current account deficit of US$ 
1.9 billion in 2004 and US$ 2.5 billion in 2005, representing 2.1 and 2.7 percent of GDP, 
respectively.  Coupled with the current account gap, the government has additional 
financing requirements from upcoming external debt repayments amounting to US$3.6 
billion in 2004 and US$ 3.7 billion in 2005.  Thus, before considering net capital inflows, 
the total financing requirements amount to US$5.5 billion in 2004 and US$6.2 billion in 
2005.  The medium and long term debt inflows from official and private sources, and 
which include multilateral financing and proceeds from this loan, are expected in total to 
amount to US$ 6.1 billion in 2004 and US$ 6.2 billion in 2005.    
8. 
Project Objectives
.
The objective of the loan is to contribute to a well 
capitalized, regulated, supervised, and efficient financial system which is less vulnerable 
to future shocks and efficiently intermediates savings, provides credit, capital, and other 
financial services to Colombian investors, consumers, and home-owners including the 
underserved sectors.  It also will aim to facilitate greater domestic and foreign 
investment, reduce the cost of financing, and contribute to strengthened competitiveness, 
higher productivity and eventual job creation.   
9. 
In this context, the loan will support policy actions to operationalize the reforms 
set in motion under the first phase of the program and implement a new legal and 
regulatory framework for the modernization of the securities market and the upgrading of 
risk management norms in the mutual funds, pension, insurance and trust industries.  
With the new banking framework approved under the first phase, the loan supports the 
full implementation of the institutional and regulatory mechanisms for applying the new 
standards for banking risk management, corporate governance, related party transactions, 
transparency to the public, bank exit procedures, sanctions and penalties regimes, 
assessment of bank vulnerabilities, prioritization of corrective actions, divestment 
procedures of state owned financial institutions, and resolution tools to prevent the 
contagion caused by potential future financial disruptions. 
10. 
Project Components
.
Banking Regulation.  
The loan supports the Government’s 
efforts to adapt existing regulations to the supervision of financial conglomerates and 
related parties, the application and enforcement of Law 795-2003, and effectiveness and 
improvement of supervision via progress on benchmarks established under it’s Strategic 
Plan, including the improvement of risk assessments made for financial institutions, 
conducting of consolidated financial group examinations, and SB institutional 
strengthening.  The component also supports the financial sector stability review which 
assessed the future health of the banking system.  Finally, it supports the 
Page  4
-
4
-
divestment/dismantling of insolvent State banks and measures to sell off assets to the 
private sector. 
 
11. 
Housing Finance and Non Banks: 
Under this component, measures have been 
taken to increase the competitiveness, soundness, efficiency and transparency of the 
mortgage industry, and to improve the institutional set-up to support housing 
microfinance.  The Bank further supports measures taken by the Borrower to ensure that 
secondary mortgage market regulations and practices are adjusted, including improved 
securitization methodologies to harmonize risk-based capital adequacy norms and 
oversight functions between banks and securitization companies.  For non-bank financial 
institutions, the loan supports the implementation of new insurance regulations 
addressing solvency margin standards and methodologies to upgrade the calculation of 
technical and mathematical reserves, and regulatory methodologies for identifying 
Values-at-
Risk in the pensions, trust and insurance industries’ investment portfolios. 
 
12. 
Capital Markets and Government Debt Markets
.
This component focuses on the 
new Securities regulatory and institutional framework covering, inter alia: (a) Corporate 
governance norms including role of the Board, management, auditors, and other industry 
officials; (b) Securities issuance norms and disclosure requirements including 
rationalized procedures for issuance; and (c) Qualification of standards for industry 
professionals and entrants.  Furthermore, the loan supports (i) the harmonization of the 
regulatory and supervisory framework for the mutual and investment funds industry -- 
trust institutions, specialized investment funds and mutual funds under different 
supervisory authorities, and (ii) the implementation of valuation guidelines for a range of 
public securities and private fixed income instruments.  In support of Government debt 
markets, an issuance strategy for government debt has been developed through a 
coordinated effort comprising technical teams from the MoF regulatory units, the DGCP, 
and the Central Bank. 
 
13. 
Benefits.
 
The main benefits would be the substantial strengthening of the 
financial system using norms aligned to international standards, and the use of regulatory 
and risk management tools to withstand future market or credit shocks.  Benefits will also 
accrue to market participants including institutions, individual investors, funds, and other 
players under more transparent and comparable market operating norms, thus promoting 
more entry into the capital markets and clearer valuation rules allowing improved arms 
length trading and issuing of securities.  The additional instruments and mechanisms for 
protecting against risks in the mortgage market should allow that market to become more 
sustainable and permit more access by underserved groups to obtain financing for home 
construction and improvement. 
 
14. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
.
The project's policy reforms 
will be implemented through the Ministry of Finance and the other supporting agencies 
such as the Banking Superintendency, the Securities Superintendency, the Central Bank 
(BRC), and the Deposit Insurance Agency (FOGAFIN) in order to cover the banking, 
housing finance, insurance, securities and debt market sectors.  Procedures for 
disbursements will follow the simplified norms for Structural Adjustment and Sector 
Page  5
-
5
-
Adjustment Loans.  The Government  will utilize an account in the BRC for this purpose.  
After the Bank formally notifies the Government that a tranche is available for 
disbursement, the Government may submit a withdrawal application so that the proceeds 
of the tranche are deposited by the Bank, in accordance with the Loan Agreement.  For 
the purposes of loan disbursements and audits, the Government will specify the deposit 
account prior to furnishing the Bank with the first request for withdrawal from the loan 
account, and maintain in the BRC, a dollar denominated account.  All disbursements 
from the l
oan account will be deposited by the Bank into the Government’s deposit 
account operating at the BRC, in a manner similar to a commercial bank account without 
requiring the use of intermediary commercial bank accounts.  The Government is 
committed for the proceeds of the loan to be used only used for eligible expenditures 
based on the negative list specified for the loan.  The Bank will reserves the right to 
request an audit of the deposit account conducted in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and any 
other information concerning the deposit account and the audit. 
15. 
The Bank will monitor and assess ex-post (through supervision missions with the 
government’s concurrence) the use of the deposit account based on the Comptroller 
General’s Audit Report, if this shall have been carried out.  The Government understands 
that the proceeds of the loan will be used to finance only eligible expenditures based on 
an existing negative list for the loan.  The Bank will thus reserve the right to request an 
audit of the deposit account conducted in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. 
 
16. 
Executing Agencies
.
The principal executing agency is the Ministry of Finance.  
Other supporting agencies are the Superintendency of Banks, the Deposit Insurance 
Agency (FOGAFIN), the Central Bank, the Superintendency of Securities and the Office 
of Public Debt. 
 
17. Project 
Sustainability
.
The risks of an unexpected economic downturn would 
likely halt the progress in both the expansion of the housing credit market as well as in 
the development of the securities market.  The adverse effects of a worsening fiscal and 
economic situation would put additional stresses on the banking system and generate new 
vulnerabilities which could generate the need for the State to develop rescue policies.  
However, given the design of the banking resolution framework under the reform 
program, the outlays of the State would be minimized.  Nevertheless, a prolonged period 
of weakness could result in a lack of market absorption potential to redeploy failed bank 
assets, if such a scenario would occur.  The main factors driving such risks pertain to the 
prudent macroeconomic management by the Government, particularly with regard to the 
fiscal and debt dynamics, as well as potential adverse regional developments which might 
affect or deteriorate Colombia’s already existing current account deficit.  Additional risks 
include potential delays in the approval of the securities law, if the constitutional reform 
process is unduly extended, displacing some of the legislative agenda. 
 
18. 
Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects
.
While the loan is not 
specifically geared toward poverty reduction initiatives, it does contain certain social 
safety nets which would mitigate any losses imposed on lower income sectors, in the 
Page  6
-
6
-
event of bank failures, as well as augment to access to underserved communities to 
increase their wealth accumulation through housing market funding mechanisms.  In the 
first instance, the prudent financial management of the deposit insurance fund and the 
ability of the Government to transfer assets with deposits under the new reforms, will 
assure the long term sustainability of the deposit insurance system and in particular, its 
ability to protect insured depositors, most of which constitute the smallest deposits of 
individuals with modest assets.  In the second instance, the reform program puts in place 
a
number of mechanisms to reach out to the lower income communities with bank 
funding instruments at reasonable costs in order for such communities to gain access to 
micro housing credits and purchase or improve their core homestead wealth.  The Bank 
will give priority to monitoring this to ensure the success of this component of the 
program. 
 
19. 
The loan has no direct impact on the environment.  In terms of Operational 
Directive 4.01, it classified with an environmental category of C, and does not require an 
environmental assessment.  Environmental considerations, nevertheless, are implicit in 
some of the program’s policies being implemented.  For example, in the process of 
assessing the value of collateral used in the foreclosure of loans, the government and the 
private industry, when taking part as creditors or liquidators of bank assets being 
disssolved or sold, consider as part of the prudential review of such underlying assets, 
whether they are attached to existing environmental liabilities (e.g.: real property in flood 
zones, industrial property in sensitive areas) to ensure an adequate market valuation of 
such assets and liabilities.   
 
20. 
Program Objective Category
.
Economic Management. 
 
21. 
Contact Point
:
World Bank
:
John Pollner, Task Manager/Lead Financial Sector Specialist 
 
Finance Sector, Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 Phone: 
202-473-0079 
 Fax: 
202-522-2106
 
