                                             Document of
                                       THE WORLD BANK

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                          ReportNo. 29666-CO




 INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT


    FORA PROPOSEDSECONDPROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                      ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$100MILLION


                                               TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA



                                          August25,2004




Finance, Private Sector andInfrastructure Department
Country Departmentfor Colombia andMexico
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegional Office


This documenthasa restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                           CURRENCYAND EXCHANGE           RATES
                                  (Asof July 31,2004)
                            Currency Unit= Colombian Peso
                                US$l.OO = COP$2,645.30
                                      FISCAL  YEAR
                                January 1-December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
AFP          Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones (PensionFundFirm)
BANCAFE      Banco Cafetero (A State commercial bank)
BANCOLDEX Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (the StateExport FinancingBank)
BECH         Bancos Especializados en Crkdito Hipotecario(Mortgage Banks)
BRC          Banco de la Rep6blica de Colombia (Central Bank of Colombia)
CAMEL        Capital/Assets/Management/Eamings/liquidity
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CAV          Corporacidn de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings & Loan Banks)
CISA         Central de Inversiones, S.A. (Government Asset Management Agency)
COP          ColombianPesos
DTF          Depdsitos a TCrmino Fijo (Interest rate on time deposits)
FINDETER     Financiera de DesarrolloTerritorial (SecondTier Municipal FinancingBank)
FIRST        Financial Sector Reformand Strengthening Initiative (Grant Program)
FNG          Fondo Nacionalde Garantias (National GuaranteeFund)
FOGAFIN      Fondo de Garantias de Instituciones Financieras (Deposit Insurance Fund)
FRECH        Fondo de Reservapara la Estabilizacidnde laCartera Hipotecaria
FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
Granahorrar  A bank servingthe mortgage sector, ownedby the State
M I S        InternationalAssociation of Insurance Supervisors
IOSCO        InternationalOrganization of Securities Commissions
IF1          Institutode Foment0 Industrial(Industrial Development Bank)
LIBOR        London Interbank Offer Rate
MoF          Ministry of Finance
NPL          Non PerformingLoans
REP0         RepurchaseMarket / RepurchaseOperation
RoR          Rate of Return
SARC         Sistemade Administracidn Riesgos de Crkdito (Credit RiskMgmt. System)
SB           Superintendencia Bancaria (Superintendency of Banks)
SEARS        SistemaEspecial de Adisis de Riesgos de Seguro (Insurance RiskMgmt. Sys.)
SIMEV        Securities Market Integrated Information System
             Small and MediumEnterprise
ssc
SME
             Superintendencia de Sociedades de Colombia (Superintendency of Companies)
sv           Superintendencia de Valores (Securities Superintendency)
TES          Treasury Securities
UIAF         Unidad de Inteligenciay Andlisis Financier0 (Financial Intelligence Unit)
UVR          Unidad de Valor Real (Index basedon real value of mortgages)
VAR          Value at Risk
VIS          Vivienda de Inter& Social (Social Priority Housing)



            Vice President:                      Davidde Ferranti
            Country Director:                    IsabelGuerrero
           -Task
            Sector Director:                     Danny Leipziger
                 Team Leader:                    John Pollner

                                                     REPUBLICOFCOLOMBIA FOR om-                                                             USEONLY
                      SECOND PROGRAMMATIC                      FINANCIAL             SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                                         TABLE CONTENTS
                                                                      OF
Loan and ProgramSummary..............................................................................................................          i
PARTIRecent Economic Developments and Prospects.................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                      1
  A. Recent Economic andFinancialDevelopments .......................................................................                          1
  B. Economic ProspectsandFinancingRequirements...................................................................                             3
PARTI1. FinancialSector Context andthe ReformProgram...........................................................                                4
  A Overview..................................................................................................................................
    .                                                                                                                                          4
  B. The Financial System-Background........................................................................................                   4
  C. The Outcome of the FirstProgrammatic FinancialSector Adjustment Loan ..........................                                           9
  D. The Government ReformAgenda under the SecondProgrammatic Operation.......................                                                 14
PART I11. The ProposedLoan: SecondPhase of the Programmatic Reform Program....................                                                27
  A. Loan Description: Objective andRationale for Bank Involvement .........................................                                  27
  B. ProgramConditionality ............................................................................................................ 35
  C. Disbursement and Auditing ......................................................................................................         37
  D. EnvironmentalAspects.............................................................................................................        37
  E. SocialandPoverty Impacts....................................................................................................... 38
  F. BenefitsandRisks.....................................................................................................................     38
LISTOF ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Policy Matrix.................................................................................................................... 41
Annex 2: Letter of Development Policy for the Financial Sector ....................................................                            46
Annex 3:    Timetable of Key ProcessingEvents................................................................................ 72
Annex 4:    Colombia-FundRelations Note .....................................................................................                  73
Annex 5:    Colombia-Status of World Bank and IFC Operations ...................................................                               75
Annex 6: Colombia-Country at a Glance ......................................................................................                   77
LIST OF FIGURESAND TABLES
Figure 1: Bonds Spreads. vs other L A C Countries.......................................................
                                  Colombia          .                                                                                          2
Table 1:    Balance of Payment Financing Requirements...................................................................                       3
Table 2:    Indicators of the Colombian Economy and Banking System............................................                                 6
Table 3: Banking Sector Performance Indicators............................................................................                     9
Table 4: Indicators of FinancialCredit Intermediaries....................................................................                      10
Table 5:    Current Quantifiable Results Supported by the Program..................................................                            26
Table 6:    Summary of SecondLoan Triggers and Status of Actions Completed.............................                                        28
Table 7:    ExternalFinancingRequirements .....................................................................................                33


Bank staff who worked on the FSAL included John D Pollner (Task Manager/ LeadFinancial Sector Specialist. LCSFF). Loic Chiquier
                                                         .
(Lead Financial Officer. OPD). Joaquin Gutierrez (Lead Financial Sector Specialist. OPD). Thomas Glaessner (Lead Economist and Peer
Reviewer. OPD). Jeppe Furbo Ladekarl (Sr. Financial Specialist. OPD). Claire Grose (Sr.Financial Specialist. OPD). Gabriella Ferencz
(Lead Financial Sector Specialist and Peer Reviewer. OPD). Juan Carlos Mendoza (Sr.Financial Specialist. LCSFF). Eduardo Brito (Sr.
Legal Counsel. LEGLA).Cara Zappala (Operations Analyst). Helena Issa (Program Assistant. LCSFF)                               .


Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
duties.Its  contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization                                         .


                           REPUBLIC COLOMBIA
                                       OF
         SECOND PROGRAMMATIC     FINANCIAL    SECTORADJUSTMENT LOAN
                        PROGRAMAND LOAN        SUMMARY


Borrower:        TheRepublic of Colombia

Implementing
Agency:          Ministry of Finance

Objective:       To contribute to awell capitalized, well regulated, supervised,
                 stable, and efficient financial systemthat effectively intermediates
                 savings andprovides credit, capital, and other financial services
                 and products to Colombian investors, consumers, and home-
                 owners, includingthose currently underserved. Inorder to achieve
                 this, the operation will support the modernization of bank, non-
                 bank and securitiesmarket norms on capital adequacy and
                 strengthenthe ability of financial market participants to absorb
                 market and credit risks, and macroeconomic shocks. The
                 operation will helpimplement alternatives for the provisionof
                 fundingincludingthe expansion of the housing finance market,
                 through a diversified financial services industry which meets
                 standardizedand transparent reporting methods andharmonized
                 asset valuation standards across sectors. I t will support the
                 disclosure of risks and volatility of managedinvestments and
                 credit portfolios, across the banking, mutualfunds, insurance, and
                 pension funds industries, applying uniform capital and
                 provisioning standards for equivalent risks, thus engendering
                 competition and rationalization inthe system.

Description:     The loanfollows upon the reforms initiatedinthe first phase
                 with respectto the implementation of a stricter banking regulatory
                 framework addressing the increased allocation of capital for credit
                 and market risks as well as the enforcement of governance
                 responsibilities, setting out new norms on relatedparty exposure
                 limits and corresponding capital allocations, and the regulatory
                 implementation of modernized asseaiability carve-out
                 mechanismsfor the orderly resolution of troubled banks.

                 The loanoperationalizes mechanisms to augment micro housing
                 credit and new instruments for guaranteeing collateral to provide
                 lending incentives to the bankingsector. The mortgage banking
                 market i s strengthenedthrough new instrumentsto protect
                 borrowers from inflation risk and lenders from interest rate risks.
                 Mortgage funding is increased through the securitization market
                 which adopts capital adequacy rules consistent with new asset risks
                 generatedfrom such instruments.

                 The nonbank sector of mutualfunds, trusts andpension funds i s
                 modernizedwith the implementationof uniformcapital adequacy
                 rules and harmonization inreporting of investment portfolio

                                       - 11-

                 returns, while insurance solvency norms are upgraded inline with
                 similarbankingpractices.

                 The loan supports the implementation of the new capital markets
                 law which raises standardsfor professionalqualifications and
                 governance inthe securitiesbusiness while improving and
                 loweringthe cost of the market's operating infrastructure. The
                 methodologies for determining the market value of private
                 securities are set out, and the public short term debt market begins
                 establishing benchmark rates as referencefor other securities.

Beneficiaries:   Colombian savers, consumers, borrowers, investors, households,
                 SMEs andlarger businesses -- by improvingtheir accessto credit,
                 capital, insuranceand other financial services. Taxpayers will
                 benefit from the reduced risks of financial institution failures that
                 could generate fiscal costs.

Poverty Aspects: A key component of the reformprogram is the implementation of a
                 well structured program to enhancelendingto the micro housing
                 industry, mainly inless well off sectors, inorder to generate more
                 wealth accumulation through home ownership. The follow up
                 banking reforms will put inplace more efficient and cost effective
                 mechanismsto ensure that the State can dispose of sufficient
                 fundingto protect small depositors andreturn or replacetheir
                 funds inthe event of bank failures. The overall reformshould also
                 attract greater foreign investment, reduce the cost of financing,
                 facilitate higherdomestic investment, and thus contribute to
                 greaterjob creation, strengthenedcompetitiveness and
                 productivity.

Benefits:        The mainbenefits would bethe substantial strengtheningof the
                 financial system using norms aligned to international standards,
                 and regulatory and risk management tools to withstand future
                 market or credit shocks. Benefits to market participants such as
                 institutions, individual investors, funds, and other players include
                 more transparent and comparable market operating norms, thus
                 promotingmore entry into the capital markets and clearer
                 valuation rules allowing improvedarms length trading and issuing
                 of securities. The additional instruments and mechanisms for
                 protecting against risks inthe mortgage market should allow that
                 marketto become more sustainableandpermit more accessby
                 underserved groups to obtain financing for home construction and
                 improvement. Savers will benefit through greater security of
                 deposits, taxpayers will be less likely to bear the cost of financial
                 institution failures, and small andmediumenterprises should gain
                 improvedaccess to credit.

Risks:           Therisks of an unexpected economic downturn would likely halt
                 the progress inboth the expansion of the housing credit market as
                 well as in the development of the securities market. The adverse

                effects of a worsening fiscal and economic situation would put
                additional stresses on the banking system which couldgeneratethe
                needfor the Stateto prevent new vulnerabilities from emerging.
                However, given the design of the bankingresolution framework
                underthe reformprogram, any outlays of the Statewould be
                minimized. The new inflation and interest rate hedging
                instrumentsfor the banking systemwill also mitigate economic
                and marketrisks. However, a prolonged periodof economic
                weakness could result ina lack of market absorption potential to
                redeploy bank assets under State divestment programs. The main
                factors driving such risks pertainto the prudentmacroeconomic
                managementby the Govemment, particularly with regardto the
                fiscal and debt dynamics, as well as potential adverseregional
                developmentswhich might affect or deteriorate Colombia's
                already existing current account deficit. The program's formation
                of an official debt managementcommittee will help reduce and
                detect early risks pertaining to debt exposure. Additional risks
                include potential delays inthe approval of the securities law, if the
                constitutional reformprocessi s unduly extended, displacing some
                of the legislative agenda. Since the Govemment conducted
                extensive consultations and obtained prior agreement with the
                industry on this law, the risk of opposition to its content is
                substantially mitigated.

LoanAmount:     US$ 100million, for this secondloan inthe two-phase
                programmatic operation, to be disbursedfully upon effectiveness.

Terms:          LIBOR-based U S Dollar FixedSpreadLoan with a grace
                period of 10years and afinal maturity of 12years on March 15,
                2016, with tailored repayments. All conversion options selected
                with variable rate option maintained and capkollar premiumpaid
                by the Borrower up front.

Commitment
Charge:         0.85% percent per annum on undisbursedloan balances.
                Charge begins to accrue 60 days after signing. Four years
                following that date the chargereducesto 0.75%. DuringFY-2005,
                the annually approved 0.50% waiver of the charge was ineffect.

Front-endFee:   1percentof the loan amount less any approved applicable waivers,
                paidup front by the Borrower through own proceeds.

Scheduleof
Disbursements:  Loanto disburseuponBoardApproval following effectiveness.
                Conditionality to be met prior to Boardpresentation except for
                standardeffectiveness conditions.

EconomicR.O.R.: Not applicable.

ProjectIDNo.:   PE-P082597-LEN-BB


  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                               PROGRAM DOCUMENT
                                    ONA PROPOSED
 SECONDPROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
                           THE REPUBLICOF COLOMBIA


1.       This programdocument proposesaone-trancheFinancial Sector Adjustment
Loanof US$ 100million as the secondphase of a Programmatic Financial Sector
Operation to the Republic of Colombia. The first phase was approved by the Boardon
April 24,2003 andwas disbursedon June 5,2003. The outcome of the first operation
was consideredhighly satisfactory in its contribution to the overall objectives of the
Programby setting the stage for a sound and sustainablebanking sector and initiating
prudentialoperatingreforms inthe non-bank sector. This secondoperation will
consolidate the reforms inthe banking sector and ensure the sector's future stability,
capitalization and capacity for savings and credit intermediation through the
implementation of the new financial legal framework for mitigating banking risks.
Simultaneously, and to augment competitiveness infinancial intermediation inorder to
facilitate domestic andforeign investment, the operation will strengthenthe regulatory
framework and soundness of non-bank financial institutions, modernizing the legal
framework of the capital market, and upgrading the policy and operational strategyfor
the government securities market. The program will be implemented by the Regulatory
Department of the Ministry of Finance with support from the Superintendency of Banks
(including the areas of banking, pensions, insurance and trusts), the Deposit Insurance
Agency (FOGAFIN), the Superintendencyof Securities, the Public Debt/Treasury Office
of the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank.

PART I.RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS

A.       RecentEconomicand FinancialDevelopments

2.       The Colombian economy grew well above expectations in2003 reaching 3.95%
of GDP growth. Though this growth was initially concentratedina few sectors
(construction, manufacturing, mining), the expansion broadenedto other sectors towards
the end of the year. The initial shock causedby the Venezuelan crisis andthe foreign
exchangecontrols that were imposedthere and that negatively affected Colombian
exporters dissipatedquickly as growth inthe U.S. pickedup and overall global economic
performance improved. As the economic expansion continues, unemployment eased to
its lowest level since the 1998-99 crisis and reached about 12percent inDecember 2003
from apeak of 20 percent, though the non-seasonally adjusted spike usually seen in
January was as strong as it has been inrecent years, bringingunemployment levels back
to about 18%. This has translatedina moderate decrease inconsumption and consumer
confidence inthe first quarter of 2004 which i s expectedto be transitory. Investor
confidence remains high and will continue to be buoyedby lower interest rates and a
general sense of improvement of the security situation inthe country.

3.       Capital inflows have continued to grow with net inflows of US$600million in
the first two months of 2004 compared with an outflow of US$80 million duringthe
same period ayear ago, though current account deficits are still projected at above US$2
billion The capital inflows though have led to an appreciation of the peso inspite of the

efforts b y the Central Bank, Banco de la Republica (BRC), to prevent this through the
lowering of interest rates and the accumulation of reserves. The negative effects of the
peso appreciation inthe export sector has beenbalanced b y the continued improvement
of the global economy after export earnings in 2003 rose over 9 percent compared to
2002. Inspite of economic expansion, inflation has continued on a downward track. In
2003, inflation was 6.5 percent, down from 7 percent in2002. However, it overshot the
BRC target of 5-6 percent. The current utilization level of installedcapacity remains low
at 70 percent thus suggesting the current expansion i s still far from producing inflationary
pressures.

4,      During2003 the government continued to make progress on fiscal adjustment and
met the revised target under its two-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) signed with the
International Monetary Fund(IMF) inJanuary 2003. The combined public-sector deficit
narrowed to 2.7 percent of GDP, down from 3.7 percent o f GDP in 2002. Income tax
receipts increased by 15.8 percent innominal terms during2003 both as a result of the
economic lift as well as the implementation of the 2002 tax reform that eliminated some
income tax exemptions and generally enlarged the tax base. The government exercised
restraint inits expenditure policies with non-discretionary spending growing essentially
at the rate of inflation. Financing o f this deficit was facilitated by improvements inthe
terms on which the government can access international financial markets thanks to the
improvedeconomic outlook. Coupon rates of Colombian dollar denominatedbonds have
come down from a peak of 11.75 percent inmid-2002to 8.125 percent for an issue of
US$500 million twenty-year bonds inearly 2004. International bondissuance in2003
totaled US$1.54 billion. Government bond spreads have thus improved and now rank
roughly on par with Peru and Panama, relatively lower risk countries (Figure 1).

                             Figure 1: Bond Spreads Colombia vs. Other LAC Countries
                                                    -

      60 ,




           Argentina   Brazil     Chile     Colombia Dom. Rep. Ecuador   Mexico   Panama  Peru  Venezuela

          Source: EMBI. Dataas of July 20,2004.

                                              - 3 -

B.       EconomicProspectsandFinancingRequirements
5.       Growth i s expectedto continue at least through 2005. The government economic
policies and the perceived improvement of the security situation inthe country continues
to generate a sense of confidence. This is particularly the case inthe business sector even
though consumer confidence and spending decreasedslightly inthe first quarter of 2004
inresponseto the increaseof unemployment inJanuary. Ifunemployment regainsits
overall downward trend, as is expectedgiven increasesinprivate investment, GDP
growth should remain inthe 3.5-4.0 percent range bothfor 2004 and 2005 provided that
global growth continues andprices of oil, still Colombia's mainexport in spite of
decreasingproduction, do not tumble.

6.       Capital inflows are likely to continue. Given that interest rates remainhigher than
inthe U.S., the Colombianinvestment climate hasimprovedandthe appreciation
expectation continues, it is likely that the strong inflows observedduringthe first quarter
of 2004 will continue. The adverseeffect that this may have inthe export sector due to
the peso appreciation will be balancedby the contribution that these flows will make to
investment activities. Furthermore, ongoing negotiations of a free trade agreementwith
the U.S. should strengthenthe position of the export sector.

7.       The fiscal situation is the mainsource of potential economic vulnerability. The
government's agreement with the IMFcalls for continuing to reduce the deficit to 2.4
percent of GDP by 2005. However, further fiscal adjustments will be difficult as the
political environment needed to take these kindof measures is unlikely to be present.
The legislative agenda during2004.will be driven by efforts to modify the constitution to
permitreelection inconsecutiveperiods. Inspite of these difficulties, the government
will continue to show fiscal restraint and the current agreement with the International
Monetary Fund(IMF) i s expectedto be renewed after it expires inJanuary 2005.

Financing Requirements
8.       The estimates on the balanceof payments are for a current account deficit of US$
1.9 billion in2004 andUS$2.5 billionin2005, representing 2.2 and2.7 percent of GDP,
respectively. Coupled with the current account gap, the government has additional
financing requirements from upcoming external debt repayments amounting to US$3.6
billion in2004 andUS$3.7 billion in2005. Thus, before considering net capital inflows,
the total financing requirements amount to US$5.5 billion in 2004 andUS$6.2 billion in
2005. The mediumandlongterm debt inflows from official and private sources, and
which include multilateralfinancing and proceeds from this loan, are expectedintotal to
amount to US$6.1 billion in2004 and US$6.2 billionin2005.

                        Table 1:BalanceofPaymentsFinancingRequirements


      (Figures in US$ billions)               2004 (est.)                  2005 (proj.)
CurrentAccount Balance                           (1.9)                       (2.5)
DebtRepayment Obligations                        (3.6)                       (3.7)
Gross FinancingGap                               (5.5)                       (6.2)
MediumLong TermDebt Inflows                       6.1                         6.2
  o/w 2"dProgrammatic FSAL                        0.1
Source: World Bank, IMF, E N

                                              - 4 -

   PART 11. FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT AND THE REFORMAGENDA

A. Overview

9.      The Colombian Government embarkedon comprehensive financial sector reforms
to overcome the difficulties resultingfrom the banking crisis of the late nineties and
develop solid foundations for the entire financial systemextendingbeyond banking to
other financial institutions, the insurancesector, the pension sector, the capital markets
and the government's issuanceof debt securities. The overall objectives of these reforms
and the Programmatic Loans through which the Bank has supportedthese efforts are:

    (9      To strengthen the government's capacity to manage and mitigate weaknesses
            inthe financial systemthrough animproved legal andregulatory framework
            which will reduce costs to the State, as well as the implementation of
            modernizedrisk management approachesby the industry, to cushion future
            losses and strengthen institutional capital to support productive investment;

    (ii) Tocompletethecleanupofthebankingsystemasaresultofthe1999-2001
            crisis andprovide mechanismsto dispose of assets which might represent
            contingent liabilities of the State and to taxpayers; and

    (iii)Tostrengthenanddiversifytheparticipationofthehousingmortgagemarket,
            the non-bank financial and insurance services, as well as the capital market in
            order to diversify the sources of funding and risk while maintaininga
            prudential regulatory framework in all financial industriesof the system.

B. The FinancialSystem

Background

10.     The Colombian banking systemhadexperienced rapidexpansion during the first
halfof the nineties, which was brought to ahalt by amarkedeconomic slowdown. The
deteriorating quality of the loanportfolio and associateddrop inthe loss provisioning
coverage ratio triggered liquidity problems. Inspite of heavy interventionby the BRCin
its capacity as lender of last resort, the magnitude of the problems eventually forced the
Deposit InsuranceAgency (FOGAFIN) to intervene inseveral credit institutions.

11.     Available resources were clearly insufficient to provide the required financial
support, particularly given the concurrent pressure on government finances from a
growing fiscal deficit and fast-closing access to international capital markets. New funds
and mechanismshadto be establishedin order to stop the deteriorating condition of the
banking system. Facing the risk of abroader systemic crisis and a runon deposits, the
authorities introduced a number of economic emergency and support measuresbetween
1999-2001aiming at restoring the health of the system and to provide relief to debtors
(mortgage sector `reliefs' andcorporate restructurings). The measures, which attempted
to bringabalancebetween the competing interests and problems of the involvedparties,
were mainly carried out by FOGAFIN and were supportedby innovations inthe
provision of well timed andmonitored liquidity support by the BRC.

                                                 - 5 -

12.     Financial sector support consisted of private and public sector bank cleanups and
recapitalizations. Inthe case of private banks FOGAFIN provided a recapitalization
credit line to institutions, under certain preconditions relatingto portfolio clean-up,
partial recapitalization by shareholders' own funding (to ensure burden sharing and
alignment of incentives) and the successful adoption of an adjustmenthmprovement plan
and new performance contracts. As part of the recapitalizationline program, FOGAFIN
lent funds to shareholders of some private banks so that they could participate inthe
required recapitalization with the matching 20 percent of additional own equity. An
innovative feature involved the use of credit line funds to purchase Treasury bonds which
were placed on the banks' balance sheets to improve overall asset quality incontrast to
the large stock of non performing loans. Additional measures included liquidity support
operations in the form of credit portfolio repurchase agreements using government bonds,
as well as the extension of FOGAFIN's recapitalization line subject to similar conditions,
to the mortgage financial institutions (BECHs).

13.     The government undertook a detailed review of the public sector banks, and
concluded that, in spite o f inefficiencies, resource requirements, and moral hazard
problems, the State should remain involved inthe largely underserved rural communities
where the private sector could not efficiently provide financial services. This would be
achieved by maintaining a sole public sector `first tier' institution inrelevant partsof the
country (Banco Agrario). Inthe case of public banks, recapitalization was to be
complemented by the disposal of unproductive assets, followed by the liquidation or
restructuring and (eventual) privatization or asset divestment of most entities'.

14.      FOGAFIN assumed direct control of public banks and o f those private ones
deemed necessary to `officialize' as part of the recapitalization process. As a result of the
crisis, 35 entities were intervened for liquidationbetween 1998-2003, and another 20
were voluntarily liquidated by their shareholders. Liquidation and merger activity during
that period contributed to the significant reduction (from 148 to`64) inthe number of
financial institutionsenrolled inFOGAFINfor deposit insurance purposes.

15.      Additional policy tools included promoting the use o f out-of-court debt
restructuringagreements for viable enterprises which had trouble repaying bank loans,
anddebtor relief primarily focused on mortgage borrowers who were hard hit by rises in
interest rates. Other support measures for mortgage debtors were also undertaken and
included requiring credit institutions to accept ownership o f buildingsas repayment-in-
kindofferedby mortgage debtors ("credit0 por daciones en pago"), where any losses
incurred could be reclaimed from FOGAFIN. Subsequent support involved offering
guarantees to the Social Housing (VIS) portions of mortgage securitizations bonds in
order to encourage growth inthose securities and help to reduce the maturity mismatch
between the deposits and loans o f the mortgage banks.

16.      The SB also undertook a host of measures to strengthen the financial system.
Credit classificationrules were changed inorder to strengthen the loan loss provisioning
regime for both performing and foreclosed assets, with the aim of making them
comparable to international ones. On-site supervision was strengthened and the SB
initiated supervision on a consolidated group level. Moreover, minimumcapital


 Other forms of support included the assumption of future pension liabilities and the transfer of bad loans
to CISA, a separate state-owned asset management and resolution company.

                                                                         - 6 -

standards were established and early warning indicators were introducedto detect capital
problems and allow the adoption of recuperation programs or other appropriate measures.

Recent Developments

17.         Following a period of contraction inboth real terms and as a proportion o f GDP,
the system i s well on its way to recovery, with the return on average assets and equity
rising from -3.5% and-21% in 1999to 1.9% and 17% respectively by end 2003. The
total assets o f the banking system amounted to COP$97 trillion inDecember 2003
(US$37 billion) or approximately 44% of GDP. Other performance indicators (solvency,
efficiency, loan quality) also reflect a recovery, though it shouldbe notedthat the level of
financial intermediation has not yet returned to its pre-crisis levels. The improvement in
performance i s primarily attributable to four factors:

     0      Partialresumptionof economic growth.
     0      A stable net interest margin inspite of declining interest rates.
     0      The exit and/or restructuringof a significant quantity of non-performing assets,
            cumulatively amounting to around a thirdof the system's current credit exposure.
     0      Significant recapitalizations of banks and credit institutions.


         Table 2: Indicatorsof the ColombianEconomyandBankingSystem(1998-2003)
                                                                      ( in COP$ Million)
                                                        Dec-98             Dec-99            Dec-00           Dec-01    Dee02      DN-03
TotalAssets                                           79,394,592         80,045,786       80,389,697        84,244,205 89,185,456 97,305,151
Securities                                             9,387,825         12,065,639       17,165,071        22,163,053 25,069,639 28,946,227
Net Loans                                             51,040,036         48,469,259       44,300,768        44,097,631 46,436,319 49,614,965
Equity                                                 8,402,017         8,822,892         9,100,524        9,416,882  9,824.156  11,159,517
Net IncomeAfter Tax                                   (1,942,890)       (2,810,748)      (1,856,191)         102,306   919,047    1,788,329
CapitalAdequacy Ratio (CAR)                               N/A              10.9%              13.2%           13.3%      12.5%      13.1%
ROAA                                                     -2.5%             -3.5%              -2.3%            0.1%       1.1%       1.9%
ROAE                                                    -21.O%             -32.6%            -20.7%            1.1%       9.6%      17.0%
Cost-IncomeRatio                                         71%                81%               80%               74%       71%        58%
NPWotal Loans                                             N/A              16.3%              16.4%           15.4%      13.6%      10.5%
Loan Loss Provisions/NPL                                  N/A              25.3%             27.7%            37.5%     43.0%       47.6%
RealGDP Growth                                           0.6%              -4.2%              2.9%             1.4%       1.6%      3.7%
Total Assets/NominalGDP                                  57%                53%               46%               45%       44%        44%
Gross Loans/NominalGDP                                   38%                34%               27%               25%       25%        24%
Annual Inflation Rate                                    16.7%              9.2%              8.8%             7.7%       7.0%       6.5%
Average Annual COP/USDExchangeRate                       1,427              1,759             2,087            2,300     2,508      2,878
Source:SuperintendenciaBancaria
Note 1: Non-PeriomingLoans (NPL)are definedas thoseloans that have stoppedaccruing interest (categoriesC, D and E)
Note 2:ROAA is definedas theaverage retum on ail BalanceSheet assets (botheaming and non-eaming)




18.         Inordertofurther strengthenthebankingsystemandtoavoid(or appropriately
manage) the occurrence of any financial crisis inthe future, the authorities, as part of the
Banksupported ProgrammaticFinancial Sector Operationsidentifiedanumber of
important policy measures and priorities intheir reform agenda, including:

     0      Improvementsinfinancial system surveillance by the SB and upgrading o f
            prudential and capital adequacy norms.
     0      Development of suitable crisis management, early corrective actions (and
            sanctions), and bank resolution mechanisms to deal with financial sector
            weaknesses.
     0      Divestment of most remaining State owned banks andrecovery of previously
            invested fiscal funding.

                                              - 7 -


    0    Upgrading of the regulatory framework inthe non bank sector (capital markets,
         insurance, pension, trusts) to avoid regulatory arbitrage among these sectors
         versus banking, and to solidify the capital base of these financial industries.
    0    Development of a prudentially sound and diversified financial sector so that
         financing and investment mightbe sourced from alternative market players while
         avoiding market concentration in any one sector or financial group.

19.      The previous bankingcrisis hadparticularly affected the mortgage portfolio of
banks and the savings and housing banks as the recession forced borrowers into default
and lowered real estate prices, the higher interest rates caused a mismatch on asset and
liability yields on these institutions' balance sheets. The Constitutional Court had also
ruled against the use of a variable mortgage rate index used by these banks as it was
based on average interest rate levels rather than on an inflation based index that had
originally been legislated. This forced the Government to reimburse borrowers for the
excess interest already paid. Non Performing Loans (NPLs) inthe residential mortgage
portfolio peaked at 35 percent inearly 2000. Under the Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Operations, strong attention was dedicated to strengthening the mortgage
institutions andrevitalizing the market given the period of turmoil it hadexperienced.

20.      The Programmatic Loans also took into consideration key "micro" institutional
aspects to ensure that reforms were accompanied by institutional strengthening efforts
and use of best practice tools and supervisory methods to monitor financial sector
solvency, performance and fair competition. The Superintendency o f Banks (SB) i s
responsible for the supervision of various financial institutions including banks, financing
corporations, large credit cooperatives, insurers, trust companies (fiduciarias), private
pensionmanagement firms (AFPs) and other non-bank financial institutions, with the
exception of securities market players which are supervised b y the Securities
Superintendency (SV), and small mutual cooperatives which are supervised by the
Superintendency of Cooperatives (Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria).

21.      The insurance industry, untilrecently hadbeen largely left untouched since a law
o f 1990 liberalizing the market. However, with the growth of the industry, now
constituting 30 general insurance and 26 life insurance companies, more attention i s
being paid to internal riskmanagement procedures and solvency standards for existing
and future market participants. The trust industryhas grown into a significant player in
the domestic financial market with 31institutions currently operating. Trust companies
are authorized to invest funds as trustees for third parties, to enter into contracts for the
administration of assets, to administer collateral guarantees andensure financial
obligations of third parties, as well as to administer or oversee any assets underlying the
execution of any such collateral guarantees.

22.      Capitalizationof the Colombian stock market amounts to only 18 percent o f GDP,
one of the lowest for the more developed economies of the region. This presents serious
obstacles to finance the real sector as alternatives to banks or credit institutions are
limitedwith 50 percent of stock market capitalization concentrated on 10companies and
the total amount of bonds or other commercial paper issuedin2003 amounting to a mere
2.2 percent of GDP.

23.      On the demand side, institutional investors, particularly the AFPs, find themselves
with very few alternatives for diversifying their investmentsbeyond government

                                             - 8 -

securities. Important steps are being taken to address this limitationthrough the recent
consolidation of the three stock exchanges into a single nationwide exchange and under
the secondphase of the Programmatic reformprogram, via actions of the Government
includingthe development of a new legal and regulatory framework of capital market
activities consistent with the three objectives of securities regulation adoptedby the
International Organization of SecuritiesCommissions (IOSCO), these being: (i)
protecting investors, (ii)maintaining fair, efficient andtransparent markets and (iii)
preventing systemic risk.

24.     Significant advances to the structure and functioning of the domestic government
debt (TES)andmoney markets are beingimplementedunderthe reforms supportedby
the Programmatic Operation, especially after important weaknesses were evident and
were exposedby the turmoil inColombia's debt markets that took place in 2002
involving a massive sell-off triggered by a temporary increase ininterest rates. The
vulnerabilities ledto the discontinuation of TES auctions from mid-Augustuntillate
November 2002, and highlightedthe importance of implementinga mutually reinforcing
set of reforms to ensure atransparent secondarypricingmethodology andto improve the
participation of the market inthe price formation of these securities.

                                             - 9 -

C. The OutcomeofFirstProgrammaticFinancialSector AdjustmentLoan

25.     The first loan inthe Program was designed with clearly defined outcomes. The
bankingregulation andresolutioncomponent resultedinimprovedbankingsystem
performance, specifically as measuredby indicators on asset quality and on the real
growth of assets o f the banking system. The bankingresolution sub-component was also
predicated on the expectation that sound growth of the financial system would result in
minimal interventions; but should they occur, the deposit insurance agency would ensure
that all small depositors would be compensated fully and that prompt restructuring and
liquidation o f the banks would minimize fiscal liabilities.

                      Table 3 BankingSector Performance Indicators
                              -

                           December 2002           December 2003             May 2004

Net Return on
Average Earning                  1.1%                    1.9%                    2.7%
Assets

Net Return on
Average Equity                   9.6%                    17.0%                  24.7%

NonPerforming
Loans/ Total Loans              13.6%                    10.5%                   9.3%

Solvency Margin/
Capital Adequacy                12.5%                    13.1%                   14.5%
Ratio



26.     Withrespect to the non-bank financial intermediaries, the housingfinance
component supported the continued expansion o f the mortgage-backed securities market
including a mechanismfor guaranteeing performance o f underlying social sector housing
loan assets as an incentive for the market to supply additional funding for mortgage
securitizations. The reforms inthe nonbank area upgraded insurance industry operating
standards to bringthem inline with international practices and an improvement in
companies' capitalization. The capital markets component encouraged the issuance o f
securities and achievement of better and more consistent market pricing on the secondary
markets. Finally, the government debt component resulted in an increasingly liquid
market for government securities with an efficient and transparent pricing methodology
for the valuation of investment portfolios.

27.     An innovativefeature of the first loan inthe Programwas the commitment to
engage in a stock-taking review of the financial system as a pre-condition for this second
Operation. As pointed out at the Boardmeeting o f the Bank's ExecutiveDirectors,
substantial Economic and Sector Work had precededthis Program, which was
incorporated into the Program Document. The regulatory reforms called for by the first
operation resulted innew standards of operation that would affect the future performance
of financial intermediaries. The stock-taking review, which was completed, played a
fruitful role as a checkpoint of the financial sector's current financial condition and the

                                              - 10-

impact of these legislative and regulatory initiatives, as well as any pendingsystemic
weaknesses that should be dealt with more rigorously during the implementation phaseof
the second operation. While mortgagebank portfolios remainweaker than those of other
institutions, overall, the overall financial condition of the system's various credit
intermediaries has significantly improved.

                                                                I           1
                     Table 4: Indicators of Financial Credit Intermediaries
                Private                               Finance    Investment   Leasing    Total
              Commercial                            Companies      Banks     Companies
                Banks
Net Return
on Assets
   2002          1.O%        0.5%         4.5%         0.4%        3.5%        1.5%      1.O%
   2003          1.9%         1.4%        3.2%         1.3%        3.1%        1.4%      2.9%
   2004"         2.6%                     5.1%         4.3%        3.2%        1.8%      2.8%
Net Return
on Ecluity
   2002          9.2%        6.6%         19.0%        2.3%        16.8%       11.4%     9.5%
   2003         17.0%        16.6%        13.9%        5.8%        15.6%       13.1%    16.0%
   2004"        25.3%                    23.6%         18.4%       19.4%       19.6%    24.7%
Non
Performing
Loans
   2002          8.8%        19.1%        7.2%         2.6%         5.9%       6.2%      8.7%
   2003          6.6%        15.6%        4.3%         1.9%         4.5%       4.1%      6.8%
   2004"         6.2%        14.2%    I   5.2%                                           6.3%
Source: Superi
* ThroughMay

28.      The first operation also focused on the poverty component through the
incorporation of legislative reforms promotingthe increasedsupply of micro housing
credit to underservedsectors, as well as the innovation of housingleasing finance to
promote eventual home ownership without the up front costs. While these programs are
just being initiatedandcannot bejudgedinterms of their long term impact, they have the
intention of focusing priority on those sectorswith traditionally little access to credit.

BankingSystem

29.      The first loan was primarily anchoredinthe approval of Law 795/2003 which
implementedanumberof key reforms inthe financial system. This includedvarious
banking governancereforms to ensure Boardindependenceand codes of conduct for
managers, as well as specifying that sanctions andpenalties could also be applied to
managers, Board members, directors and other bank administrative officers, for direct
involvement inthe breachof prudential norms andrisk managementrequirements
mandatedunderthe banking law. Governance issues also extended to definingconflict of
interest breachespertaining to operations with related parties. A significant changewas
also reflectedinthe law inits granting of authority to the Banking Superintendency (SB)
to inspect companies not directly under the SB's supervision mandate but which might
have significant and adverse impacts on the financial condition of banks (e.g.: companies
ineconomic/financial conglomerates) as well as to inspectinvestments of financial
institutions' capital maintained abroad. Inorder to make these reforms more effective,
the SB was granted autonomy intaking regulatory action and applying sanctions in such
cases of breach, among other infractions.

                                              - 11-

30.      Prevention of Money Laundering. Under the first loan, the anti-money laundering
regime was substantially strengthened by requiring financial institutions to directly
submit information on cash and other transactions exceeding certain minimumlimits, to
the Finance Ministry's Financial Analysis and Intelligence Unit (UIAF) which has
established commendable and regionally recognized systems and analytical infrastructure
for tracking and correlating activity on suspicious financial flows. This AML Unit also
receives data input from the National Revenue and Customs Department and processes
information on the destination andcomposition of offshore investments o f domestic
financial institutions.

31.      The SB also began implementing a strategic plan which seeks to provide it with
the tools, processes and skills necessary to supervise the banking sector under the new
regulatory framework. This planincludes the design and implementation of a risk-based
supervisory strategy that adjusts the supervision efforts and remedial actions to the level
o f risk ineach institution thus makingmore effective use of SB resources; and upgrading
internal supervisory procedures, including assessing banks' internal management
controls, to make them consistent with the new risk-based approach.

32.      Cooperatives Sector. The first phase of the program also included important legal
changes inthe regulation of the credit cooperatives sector. Given the growing segment of
this portion of the financial system, supervisory authority was given to the SB for
overseeing and licensing cooperatives which effectively offered deposits to non member
thirdparties or the general public, giventhat this activity impliedputtingdeposits of the
public at risk, requiring oversight inline with banking norm standards.

33.      Framework of Bank Resolution and Dissolution. For improvingthe framework to
resolve troubled banks, the first phase also supported the approval o f measures allowing
additional guarantees to be provided by FOGAFIN for asset transfer operations and with
the possibility of complementing these with deposit insurance funds and FOGAFIN
bonds issued on the market while minimizing fiscal outlays. A new bank dissolution tool
named `progressive carve-outs' was authorized to permit the voluntary liquidation of
financial institutions in a phased and orderly fashion, while protecting or compensating
depositor funds inthe process. Inaddition, and inorder to provide incentivesfor proper
riskmanagement, the deposit insurance premium scheme was structured so that banks
would receive rebates at the end of the year based on the maintenance or improvement in
the soundness of their institutional risk profile.

34.      Inrelationto bank dissolution, the first phase of the reformgave legal
authorizationto CISA, a state asset management company, to accelerate asset disposition
through the use o f asset sales and asset securitization mechanisms, as well as to use trust
instruments for transferring assets and liabilities from failing institutions as well as to
engage management contracts for the disposition of specified assets requiring specialized
skills. For other state financial institutions, namely key state-owned banks such as Banco
Agrario and IF1(the industrial development bank), the new legislation mandated that
lending rates or other funding sources should fully cover all such banks' operational and
financial costs to avoid future loss makinginstitutions requiring State bail outs. During
the first phase of the reform, the reduction o f IFI's assets and merger with Bancoldex (the
export financing bank) was initiated and the Government authorized the sale of Bancafk,
a State owned first tier bank.

                                             - 12-

Housing Finance

35.     The first loan underthe programinitiatedmajor reforms inthe housing finance
and mortgage sector which was severely weakenedfrom the previous crisis period.
Giventhe backloginthe disposition of assets of already failed mortgageinstitutions, a
key reformwas the enactment of Law 794/2003 (a new Civil ProceduresCode) which
effectively streamlined and acceleratedproceduresfor the foreclosure of mortgage credit
collateral in order to promptly resolve pending insolvencies and repay outstanding
creditors. Previously this processtook up to five years but under the new law this will be
reducedto a maximumof three years.

36.     Expansion of Micro Housing Credit. Inorder to encouragenew lendinginthe
sector, the reform also permitted banksto provide outright micro housing credit
(previously wrapped under general consumercredit) as well as to offer housing leases
with the possibility of conversion to purchase. The new framework also allows smaller
finance companies to borrow credit lines from commercial banks for the explicit only
purpose of funding micro housingcredit operations.

37.     Hedging Inflation Exposure. Given the prior crisis periods when mortgage
borrowers defaulted due to quickly rising rates, andin order to protect such mortgage
loan borrowers from unhedgedexposure to inflation (given the Constitutional Court's
pronunciation that such loans' rates should remainlinkedto an inflationindex) the first
phase of the reform implemented an interest rate swap program managedby FOGAFIN.
This program allowedmortgagefinance borrowers to limit their inflationrate exposure
(used as the index on their loans) at a rate cap of 6%, for a small premium. The swap
program has been very successful to date with over 14,000 borrowers and US$ 135
millionequivalent having been subscribedand these borrowers alreadybenefited from
inflation protection given that in2003 the rate rose above the limit to 6.49%.

38.     Liquidity ofMortgage Securities. Simultaneously a relatedmechanism (the
FRECH securities swap fund) was implemented to permit banks holding mortgage
backed securities to swap them temporarily into treasury securities (for example, for use
inshort term rep0transactions) andthus to increasethe potential liquidity andfungibility
of these new securities. Since to date, most banks still have a large stock of usable
treasury securities, the facility has not yet had an opportunity to be deployed. However,
anotherprogram being FOGAFIN's guarantee of social sector housing loans (VIS) that
support the underlying assets in securitized instruments and which permitincreased
funding to that sector through the recyclingof suchloans, has continued to be successful.
These guaranteesare beingpurchasedby the market and FOGAFINhas ensuredthat the
price of such guaranteesare rigorously determined usingan actuarial-basedloss
estimation methodology, to avoid lossesto the State.

Non Bank Financial Institutions

39.     Insurance Reform. The first operation inthe program also overhauled the
regulatory regimefor the insurance sector. More flexible regulatory powers were
provided for the oversight and establishment of insurance companies' solvency margins
and technical reserves given the rapidly evolving norms and changing practices inthe
industry worldwide. An increase inthe minimumcapital requirement was mandatedfor
bothinsurersand reinsurers alike operating in Colombia, more inline with international

                                             - 13-

standards. At the same time, an insurance sector diagnostic which evaluated the
regulatory framework of the industry, was completed andusedby the Insurance arm of
the SB to evaluate its own supervision practices inline with the core principles
established by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS).

40.      The reform also established the authorization andduty of the SB to supervise the
local representation offices of foreign reinsurance companies and to limit the use of
`fronting' operations, Le., the practice of insurance companies to operate with practically
no capital by reinsuring all or most o f their risks with associated reinsurance entities.

41.      Trust Investment Companies. For the Trust industry which manages large
investment portfolios for clients, the reform included transparency provisions to better
reflect commission charge expenses applied by trust managers, so that the commissions
represent a percentage discounted off managed assets, making industry charges more
comparable. The reform however, also replaced previously mandated investment
instrument limits, with a procedure of prior SB approval of trust managers' own internal
riskmanagement systems showinghow investment risks were beingmitigated.

Capital Markets and GovernmentDebt Market

42.      A major accomplishment under the first phaseof the reform was the formalization
of a collaborative inter-institutional agreement between the SB, the Securities
Superintendency (SV) and the Central Bank to develop and issue a common securities
and financial asset valuation methodologies for use across all the financial industries and
to unify mark-to-market regulations. For this purpose, a memorandum of understanding
was signed between the SB and the SV to, inter alia, work on harmonizing the regulatory
framework governing mutual funds subject to both banking and securities supervision, as
well as prudential regulationandjoint supervision activities involvingboth institutions.

43.      The result of the above collaboration was the development, approval and issuance
of new regulations setting market valuation standards for domestic fixed income treasury
securities as well as external debt securities which represent key benchmark instruments
for setting the prices inthe local capital market. The SV was reorganized to create a new
structure including: (a) a mutual funds division that will oversee this growing segment o f
institutions; (b) an intermediaries and markets division that focuses on the regulation of
entrants into the securities market and well as on institutions that are required to exit the
market due to non compliance with norms; and (c) a supervision division to focus
exclusively on surveillance o f the market and enforcement of regulations.

44.      Another major reform implemented was the specification o f capital requirements
for securities brokers and dealers, particularly with respect to securities investments taken
on their own behalf or as temporary holdings duringthe course o f transacting trades. The
SV also issuednew regulations for primary dealers, i.e., those dealers given first access to
government securities prior to selling them on the secondary market.

45.      Inorder to improve the liquidity andthe market price formation of domestic
securites, the reform also authorized the BRCto purchase and exchange treasury
securities available inthe current window of issuance, known as `on-the-run' securities.

                                               - 14-

D. The GovernmentReformProgramUnderthe SecondProgrammaticOperation

46.     The second phase of the reformprogram builds upon and operationalizes various
elements of the new regulatory framework established under the first phase, but also
pushes the reform agenda into new sectors, mainly the securities market where a major
legislative reform i s set forth, as well as eliminating the regulatory arbitrage previously
present innon-bank sectors such as the mutual funds, pensions and trust industries. The
Government's strategy inthis regard, i s to ensure that besides maintaining a sound
banking system, other financial service industries are strengthened and can provide
alternative channels for the funding of investment. This involves promoting a general
policy of diversifying the sources of capital providers inthe economy while ensuring that
all financial industries operate under well established prudential standards and sound risk
management practices.

Bank Regulationand Resolution

47.     Key actions which the Government completed as part of the second phase of the
reform, was the issuance of operating regulations and decrees to implement the financial
reformlaw approved inthe first operation. Inthis context, the Ministry of Finance and
the BankingSuperintendency have already issued over 65 such regulatory orders
covering all provisions o f the financial reform law, including the reform of bank
resolution procedures usingthe asset and liability carve-out modality. This modality
modernizes and reduces the cost o f bank closures by attempting to maximize the transfer
of assets andmatching deposits to existing sound banks, thus reducing the needfor
outlays of deposit insurance funds.

48.     These new approved procedures will only be tested inthe event of future bank
failures, something which has not occurred duringthe last year and half. The procedures
provide the SB with tools to determine the optimal level o f assetAiability transfers as a
preferred standard procedure without the need to seek prior authorization from client
depositors. This is facilitated through the authority to use asset securitizations to enable a
more effective transfer of loan portfolios. The securitization method permitted as part of
this new resolution toolkit is executed by transferringthe viable loanswith repayment
potential, into a trust which subsequently issues securities whose interest rates are based
on the projectedcash flows of the underlying loan portfolio.

49.     Under this scheme, the loan portfolio valuation and audit therefore becomes less
of an immediate need since a greater value of loans normally `supports' the face value o f
the bond (that is, the bond i s overcollateralized to ensure that any loan default will not
affect the offered bond yield). The new regulations for implementing this also specify a
limit of complementary deposit insurance funds that may be usedfor non-matched
deposits under this transaction - the limit to be used being whatever the deposit insurance
fund would have hadto pay if all insureddeposits of the failed bank hadto beredeemed.

50.     Supervision of Consolidated Financial/Economic Groups. Another key reform
implementedunder the second phase of the operation, is the completion of new norms for
the supervision of financial entities which comprise a part o f larger financial or economic
conglomerates. This aspect of financial system health i s crucial inorder to ensure that
the capital of banks (which may be provided by members o f the larger economic group)
reflects a true and unique value and i s not canceled-out for example, by that same bank's

                                              - 1 5 -

lendingto apart of the economic conglomerate, thus invalidating the net additional
capital on the bank's balance sheet. Underthe new regulations now fully endorsedby the
Superintendent of Banks, supervision processeswould include the SB's verificationof
these financial, asset and liability flows among financial entities that belong to
conglomerates, and eventually require for supervision purposes, that financial institutions
report consolidated financial statementsthat makemore transparentthe sources of net
capital of such financial institutions within larger groups. Inorder to obtain full
ownership of this comprehensivereform, the SB has subjectedthe new normto areview
bythe general public, the private industry, the SV which is responsiblefor oversight of
non financial corporations that issue securities, and the Superintendencyof Companies
(SSC).

51.      Sanctions Regime. As part of the operational implementation of more structured
supervision procedures under the secondphaseof the program, the Government through
the SB has implemented a comprehensivemanualwith directives for supervisors. This
manualwhich is to beusedas aninternal guide to standardizethe SB's own procedures,
specifies the type and rangeof infractions applicable to the financial industry. These
include, for example, those pertaining to lack of minimumcapital or solvency ratios, lack
of appropriate loan classification, surpassingregulatedcredit exposure to relatedparties,
badfaith managementof shareholder and depositor funds, failure to follow corrective
orders by the SB and various others, and the range of sanctions andfines which the SB
may apply ineach case. The manual not only adapts the sanctions regime to the new
provisions of the reformed legal framework, but also attempts to ensure consistency
among bank examiners/supervisorsinthe application of sanctions and levels of monetary
penalties.

52.      Risk Based Supervision. Another key operational reformto support the
implementation of the new regulatory framework, i s the SB's development and
documentation of criteria for assessing the level of riskiness of each subject financial
institution, and prioritizing the SB's inspection program towards those institutions. The
new methodologies use a CAMEL2basedsupervisory risk rankingmodelwhich allow
bankingsupervisorsto score andassignweights to amultitudeof factors that makeupthe
CAMEL components. The methodology includes an assessment of management aspects
ineachbank, suchas how organized andtimely financial monitoringandreporting is,
and how advancedare a subject bank's internal risk managementprocedures. These key
aspects are frequently less developed inother country CAMEL models. The
incorporation of them into the Colombian methodology provides additional information
to allow assessing the overall level of riskjudged to exist inparticular bank, and thus
rank its priority for inspection underthe SB's program.

53.      Basel II Oriented Risk Management. While Colombia has not adopteda full
version of the Basel I1capital adequacy and risk management models, it i s one of the few
countries inthe region which has pushedthe envelope to a very advancedlevel interms
of requiring financial institutions to adopt internalcredit risk management models for use
indeterminingasset risks andweighting factors for the calculation of requiredcapital and
solvency levels. This contrasts with the old Basel model which pre-assignedweights (for
determination of solvency capital) to different types of loan assets, irrespective of each
individualbank's estimation of those asset risks.


 CapitalI Assets / ManagementI EarningsI Liquidity.

                                                  - 16-

54.      The SB has directed the bankingsystem (and i s inthe process of doing the same
for the insurance sector) to develop internal portfolio riskmodels involving the statistical
estimation of default probabilities andpotential loss magnitudes. The SB's review
process for determining the viability and parametric accuracy o f each bank's credit risk
model will be intensive and time consuming and may last a matter of years rather than
months. Besides the major reform of shiftingtoward this internal based model system,
and inorder to ensure the adequacy of humanand technical resources to implement this
reform, the SB has developed an action plan documentingthe budgetary, personnel, and
computing resources required, as well as the implied time lines to complete the review
and approval process of each bank's statistical credit risk model. This logistical exercise
is o f highpriority in order for the SB to estimate with certainty when this reform process
can be realistically completed so as to provide the market with a target date for having it
fully implemented inevery financial institution.

55.      Financial Sector VulnerabilityAnalysis (Stocktaking Report). Under the first
operation, the Government documented its commitment to undertake a comprehensive
assessmento f latent and future risks inthe financial system. This has been fully
completed as part of the second operation's triggers. The review concluded that, while
the capital position and earning o f the financial sector had improved substantially since
2000, the mortgage banks (BECHs) remainedthe most vulnerable primarily due to their
higher stock of nonperforming loans still intheir portfolio. Under assumed
macroeconomic shocks such as a recurrence of a recessionary environment, high
inflation, or a sharphike ininterest rates, these banks could suffer potential insolvencies.
As partof the review, contingency strategies were identifiedto handle such cases if and
when they occurred - among the strategies were the application of the new resolution
tools to transfer viable loan portfolios with depositor funds to new banks while
liquidating the unrecoverable portfolios. Under the new law 794/2003 governing
foreclosure proceedings, the liquidation of collateral for these unrecoverableloans would
also be processed faster, thus reimbursing the State for any unmatched insureddeposits
which would have been paidout inthe interim.

56.      Another observation o f the review was the bankingsector's holdingof a high
stock of government securities from which a significant proportion of their income was
generated. While the Government's policy is to plan its future debt management strategy
to avoid a compromising situation with international or domestic creditors, the review
nevertheless pointed out that this phenomenon might have also resulted infewer
incentives for banks to increase credit. The implications of this observation are not fully
evident given that the Government has issued securities to fundits short and medium
term needs, and will likely continue to do so untilit substantially reduces its fiscal deficit.
Nevertheless, this observation is being discussed between the MOF and the SB to
determine whether banks should be required to have capital risk weighting if they are
holding a certain threshold level o f government securities which constitute a significant
share of their balance sheets3. The assumption i s not that the securities (which are
presumed to be risk free) have any imminent default probability but rather that any
financial institution shouldprovision against exposures if they are concentrated in a
specific sector or issuer.

  As at the end of December 2003, public sector exposure constituted 73% of total securities and around 8%
of gross loans of the banking system. Sovereign bonds (mostly TES) accounted for the majority of
securities exposure, while sub-national lending (municipal authorities and public sector entities) dominated
other public sector loans.

                                              - 1 7 -

57.     Dissolution of State Owned Banks. Underthe first phase of the program the
Government had committed to initiatingthe mergerbetween IFI,the industrial
development bank andBANCOLDEX, the export bank, both ownedby the State. IF1
was already experiencing portfolio performanceproblems and it was not considered to be
a longterm viable concern. Likewise, the Government committed itself to improve the
balance sheet of BANCAFE inorder to eventually bring it to the point of sale. During
the secondphase of the program, the Government fully dissolved the IFI,transferred its
viable assets to BANCOLDEX andbeganliquidatingIFI's remaining residual assets.
Froma legal standpoint, therefore, IF1as an institutionhasbeen fully dissolved.

58.     For BANCAFE, a state-ownedbank that originally servedthe coffee growers
sector, international investment advisors were contracted and as part of the reform
commitment, the bank was advertisedandpublicly offered for privatization under an
international biddingprocess. Unfortunately, despite the Government's best and
transparent efforts, no bid came forth although four investors showed up and examined
the financial condition of the bank. The Government through FOGAFIN, has continued a
process of improvement of the bank's finances and loan recoveries while implementinga
program for downsizing its operations and overheadsinorder to bring it out again for
sale inthe near future. An action planto this effect has been approved by FOGAFIN as
well as a parallel action planto bringthe other remaining State intervenedbank,
GRANAHORRAR upfor sale. FOGAFINi s working to continue to improve
GRANAHORRAR's loan recoveries as well as its internal information systemwhich
requires substantial upgrading to allow for adequate risk management. The
Government's plani s to divest bothbanks through sale/privatization of the institutions or
failing that, through a sale of their assets, an option which would be more costly to the
Government interms of absorbing residual assets and paying off depositors.

Housing Finance

59.     Underthe secondphaseof the reforms, the Government hascontinuedto support
the recovery of housing finance through the implementation of measuresto foster the
improvement of lending to the sector. The lingeringmemories of the last financial crisis
havediscouragedbanksfrom extending residential mortgages inspite of the positive
characteristicsof this sector. Though the commercial and consumer portfolios non
performing loans (NPLs) have returnedto their pre-crisis levels, mortgage NPLratios are
at 14percent, only a slight decrease from the 16percent at end-2003 but an improvement
from an earlier peak of 25 percent. This secondProgrammatic Loan focuses on
supporting the implementation of new mechanismsto consolidate the environment
necessaryfor housing financing to restart.

60.     Micro Housing Credit. As discussedearlier, the first phase of the reforms
implementedlegislative provisions so that micro housing credit mightbe more easily
channeledthrough existing banking institutions. Under the secondphase, the
Government implemented a numberof innovativereforms to promote this sector. The
Government has obtained a voluntary agreement from commercial banks to allocate a
small portionof their portfolio fundingtowards this sector. Alternatively banks can also
participate inthe purchase of bonds issuedby FINDETER,a state-owned second tier
financial intermediary. The proceedsof these bonds as well as FINDETER's own
funding are to be usedto finance mortgage loans through various private credit
intermediaries includingbanks, credit cooperatives and finance companies.

                                                   - 18-

61.     The FINDETERprogram is advantageous inthat it provides loans to first tier
credit intermediaries at longer than usual maturities, thus allowing such intermediaries to
extend micro housing loans at those maturities without any repaymentflow mismatch
risk. Interest ratescanbe set competitively by participatingbanksprovided that upper
ranges remainwithin the usury limits for housing finance establishedinthe law. The
program is gearedtowards all micro housing borrowers with emphasis on socially
disadvantaged sectors which have home ownership or home enhancementpotential. A
separatehousing subsidy program establishedby the Government also provides
incentives to expand the home ownership market usingthis program.

62.     To complement the FINDETER program and increase private bank participation,
the Government's National Guarantee Fund(FNG) has also implemented an insurance
program for loans given to lower income communities. This insurance provides needed
collateral to housing credit borrowers whose lenders pay a fee (passed on to the
borrower) which i s actuarially determined by the FNG, and which provides default
protection for 70% of the statistically calculated expectedloss4. Thus, inthe absence of
usablereal estate collateral, this insurance/guarantee provides more comfort to
participating financial institutions. The expectedaverage loss calculation not only
computes loan principal and interest at riskbut also the additional administrative costs of
loan recovery once the loan enters into default. Thus, eventhough the indemnity
provided by the guarantee is only 70%, it i s actually higher as a percentageof the loan
principal given the inclusion of these other default related expenses.

63.     FRECHInterestRate Optionfor Mortgage Banks. Another innovation
implemented under the secondphaseof the reformprogram i s the re-casting and
reconversion of the prior FRECH interest swap into a more flexible interest rate options
program. This FRECH program was established to providean interest rate hedging
instrumentto those mortgagebanksthat were left with portfolio exposuresafter the
Constitutional Court disallowed them from indexing their loans to deposit interest rates.
Since these banks were left with loans indexed to inflation, they had a risk mismatch
betweenthe rate base on their assets versus liabilities. Since the banks had no other
recourse, the Government first establishedthe FRECH swap which converted banks'
asset returns to an interest rate base with a fixed interest rate upperlimit inexchange for
their inflationbasedrates. However, the swap was not successfulsince it required, under
a low interest rate environment, that banks continually pay money into the FRECHwhile
the rate remainedbelow the threshold limit. Only if the rate rose above that limit would
banksreceive compensation.

64.     Underthe secondphaseof the reforms, the MOF andBRC agreedwith the
mortgagebanking sector to implementa financial option instrument which i s now
designedand agreed with the industry, and will be enter into contracts inthe third quarter
of 2004. This permits eachbank to set the periodof protection needed, andthe rate limit
protection required according to institutional and financial needs. The pricing also varies
according to the option chosen, andi s paid as an up-front premium. Ifthe interest rate
rises above the threshold limit during the contract period, at the end of that period, the
program indemnifiesthe bank for the monetary difference between the actual higher rate
and the limit rate. The program is now ineffect. Since the premiumsare actuarially
determined basedon historical expected losses and values-at-risk, the Government does


 Loss probabilitiesare calculated using historical default data for loans in this sector.

                                                      - 19-

not incur any funding riskbeyond what the market would dictate commercially. Inthis
regard, the instrument serves as a demonstration effect and should inthe long runbe able
to be offered by private market players.

65,      The SecuritizationMarket. With the mortgage securitizationmarket now
developing, the SB has progressed indeveloping a sound regulatory framework for these
instruments while preventing regulatory arbitrage in their usage. Securitization
represents an innovative financing mechanismfor credit institutions which can, by
removing the assets and associated risks from their balance sheets, effectively exchange
loans for liquidcapital with which to lend to new borrowers. The Colombian
Securitization company (Titularizadora Colombiana) has helpeddrive this market by
purchasingresidentialmortgages from originating entities and financing them by issuing
mortgage-backed securities to investors, thereby providing a bridge between the housing
and the capital markets. Inorder to satisfy investors' diverse risk appetites and time
horizons, the Titularizadora has issued mortgage-backed securities of different classes'
and maturities.

66.      Four securitizations o f performing residential mortgage loans have already taken
place through end 2003, corresponding to COP 1.8 trillion (US$700 million) or about
15% of the mortgage stock outstanding as of December 2003. The securitizations have
enabled originating banks to improve their liquidity, enhance after-tax profitability and
reduce their capital adequacy requirements. The Titularizadora also completed inJune
2004 the first securitization of non-performing mortgages6inLatinAmerica, for an
amount of COP 0.5 trillion (approx. US$200 million). This transaction has significantly
improvedthe balance sheets of the two participating mortgage banks since it resulted in
the replacement of a large portion of their stock of outstanding non-performing
mortgages with cash and subordinated securities. The good credit performance of
mortgage-backed securities has increased investors' confidence and appetite for this type
of instrument, as reflectedinprogressively declining yields and increased secondary
market liquidity.

67.       CapitalAdequacyfor Securitized Assets. On the credit risk side, the most
important change to the capital adequacy framework i s the recognition of the existence of
different levels of credit risk inthe different tranches of a securitization. Under the
reform, the SB has introduced new risk-sensitive capital adequacy rules for investments
by credit institutions insuch securities. The rules generally follow the Base1II
standardized approach for securitizations (Le. risk weights are mappedto external credit
ratings). This i s important for mortgage securitizations since the overall capital
requirement would increase for banks that sell their loan portfolios through


 Inthistype of structure, eachclass or tranche of a security (e.g. subordinated, mezzanine and senior) is
given progressively higher repayment priority over the underlying mortgage cash flows. As a result, the
subordinated (or `first loss') tranche acts as a safety cushion for the other tranches and i s therefore given
the lowest credit rating for investment purposes; this tranche is typically bought back by the issuing banks
to discourage moral hazard in the selection of mortgages to be securitized and intheir administration. By
contrast, the senior tranche has very low repayment risks and is consequently given the highest credit
rating. Inthe case of Colombia, the credit rating o f senior tranches i s enhanced by several mechanisms,
including guaranteesprovided by the government (via Fogafin) for subsidized social housing loans (VIS)
and by the IFC for non-VIS loans.
 These are mortgagesrated C, Dand E, i.e. those that are delinquent for at least 9 months and are currently
inthe processof foreclosure. Returns on these are gained through liquidation o f foreclosed assets and any
residual debt service collected from the borrowers.

                                                       - 20 -

securitizations but retain subordinated tranches of such bonds. Prior to this regulation,
banks could easily buy back securitization instruments backedby their own loans while
reducing their capital/solvency requirements despite no change having occurred inthe
underlying risk holdings.

68.         Capital Requirementsfor Securitization Firms. The aforementioned capital rules
apply to credit institutions and not to securitization companies such as the Titularizadora
Colombianathat come under the jurisdiction of the SV. However, these entities are also
exposed to risks related to securitization, such as: (a) credit risk, to the extent that they
offer credit enhancement facilities or credifliquidity support under securitization
transactions; and (b) market risk, stemmingfrom their underwriting function (the period
between the purchase of the mortgages and the sale of the structured securities) or to the
extent to which they invest inmortgage-backed securities or perform a market-making
role to enhance liquidity inthe secondary market.

69.         Inorder to ensure a level playing field and the on-going stability of the housing
finance market, the SV has introduced a risk-based capital adequacy regulationto cover
the credit and market risks incurred by securitization companies. This follows closely the
structure of the SB rule, but also explicitly addresses capital requirements for bonds that
bear the securitization company's guarantee as a credit enhancement. Since it i s the first
time that risk-based capital adequacy i s imposed on entities under the jurisdiction of the
SV, the rule also defines the components of the solvency formula including regulatory
capital, and establishes concentration andrelated party exposure limits. Given the
Titularizadora's current range o f activities andcapital base, the introduction of the new
rule i s not expected to affect its current operations but i s seen as `foresight' for regulating
potential future operation^.^

70.         One o f the remaining longer-term challenges that is being addressed, i s the tax
exemption status of interest income from mortgage-backed securities, which was
originally introducedby the Ministry of Finance to support the development of this
market. A review of tax incentive effects on this market as well as effects of transaction
taxes on the banking system, was completed under the second phase. The tax exemption
on securitizations leads taxable entities to bidup the price o f mortgage-backed securities
to a premium that i s uneconomical for non-taxable entities, and has among other factors,
motivated the originating banks to retain securities corresponding to around 70% of the
securitized mortgage portfolio'. Although retention o f the subordinate tranche by issuers
provides the right incentives for effective loan servicing, their purchase of higher-rated
tranches i s sub-optimal since it keeps the interest rate risk o f the mortgage market inthe
banking system. This exemption, scheduled to expire in 2006, will be reevaluatedinthe
context of leveling the playing field to ensure that long-term institutional investors such
as pension funds and insurance companies participate more actively inthe securitization
market.



'On     the credit risk side, the Titularizadora does not currently offer any guarantees itself but relies on the
government and the IFC as investor to provide them. On the market risk side, although it has kept
mezzanine tranches from the first four securitizations, it has recently been selling some of them in the
secondary market.
  T h i s ratio has been reduced to around 50% as originating banks have been gradually selling parts o f their
investment in the secondary market.

                                                    - 21 -

Insurance, Pension and Trust Industries
71.       Based on an actuarial review of all the branches o f the insurance business, the SB
developed under the second phase reforms and the BankingSuperintendent has endorsed,
a new set o f regulations which will fully implement Law 795/2003 and provide insurance
companies guidelines on setting their solvency capital marginsand technical
underwriting reserves according inline with global standards.' The regulations are
currently undergoing a final audit by an expert actuary and being reviewed by the
industry for final comments. This reform follows up on the implementation under the
first phase, where the new minimumcapital requirements for the insurance industry were
implemented.

72.       Simultaneously, the Insurance Arm of the SB i s gradually implementing for the
industry, a systemfor the analysis andreporting of insurance risks (Sistema Especialde
Analisis de Riesgo de Seguros -- SEARS). As with the banking sector and its move
towards Basel I1oriented models, this methodological system phases innew requirements
for insurance companies to adopt formal procedures for the analysis and measurement of
all business risks (underwriting, actuarial, market, credit, operational, reputational) inthe
insurance sector. Eachinsurer i s to produce its own version of SEARS which mustbe
approved by the SB as an internal risk management andcapital adequacy tool. The
SEARS modules must be comprehensive with the ultimate purpose of addressing
insurance companies' calculation of capital adequacy, technical and mathematical
reserves, as well as market, operational, and reinsurance credit risks.

73.       Investment Portfolio Risks. A key reformfor the pension, trust, and mutual fund
companies whose primary business is the management o f investment portfolios, andin
order to prevent regulatory arbitrage and improve transparency inthe comparative
reporting of returns of these companies' investments, a new regulation on value-at-risk
adjusted returns has been implemented. Value-at-risk (VAR) is a statistically based
calculation of portfolio volatility and incorporates the computation of potential portfolio
losses based on a pre-specified confidence interval for worst case `tail' events. Since
such a loss, while extreme, cannot be ruled out, client investors should be aware o f their
portfolio vulnerability to market movements. Inthis context, the SB in coordination with
the SV have issued regulatory requirements for the above industries to report the rate o f
return on their portfolios while disclosing the latent value-at-risk. Ina sense, this
normalizes returns for the degrees of risk inherent ineach subject portfolio, andprovides
the public with a more transparent understandingo f expected asset returns taking
historically based market volatilities into account. Concurrent with the SEARS
requirement for insurance companies, the insurance industry also incorporates VAR
parameters to report their risk adjusted investment returns.

74.       PensionZnvestment Diversification. Another aspect of investment management
for the AFPs pertains to limits on the quantity and diversity o f investment instruments
permitted, inorder to ensure that instruments o f good credit quality are purchased. Until
this reform, investments inoverseas securities were limited at 10percent of AFP
portfolios. Inthe second phase o f the reform, the Government has implemented
regulations permitting AFPs to increase their foreign currency investments up to 20

'Whilethe   overall calculation of the solvency margin is expected to deploy methodologies akin to Basel I1
for banks, the calculation of technical reserves will use E.U. insurance regulation methodologies until a
sufficiently broad databaseto compute risks actuarially, is available.

                                             - 22 -

percent of their portfolioholdings. This reform i s sound given that it diversifies holdings
into hardcurrency investments which canhelp protect and increase the value of pension
affiliates' benefits. As part of the reform and consistentwith other reforms, the
Government has removed many of the `floors' placedon the credit ratings of instruments
invested, andinstead will allow AFPs to presenttheir own internal risk models, subject to
SB approval, to demonstratetheir prudent managementof investment credit risks. In
addition, the SB has issuedregulations setting limits of upto 10percent on AFP
investments insecuritiesof firms which are related or part of conglomerated
financial/economic groups which those AFPs make part of.

CapitalMarkets

75.      Reform of the Capital Markets Framework. The new Securities Law is a
cornerstoneof the reform programunderthe secondphaseof the Programmatic
Operation. The new law which sets the framework for the capital markets inColombia
was developed andapproved by the Executive, andpresented to Congress for its
approval. As delineated inthe ProgramDocument for the First ColombiaProgrammatic
FSALOperation (Report No. 25472 CO, page 45, paragraph 171), "the completion of a
draft new Securities Law andits presentationto Congressconstitutes a key trigger for the
second phase". The new framework is progressive inthat it establishes: (i) for norms
corporate governance including the responsibilities of management and the Board, (ii)
rationalized requirements to lower the cost of issuanceof securities while setting
informationdisclosure standards, and (iii)   entry qualification standardsfor industry
professionals wishing to conduct securities business. Other key provisions of this law
include:

76.      Definition of Supervisory Powers. The new law gives the SV power to supervise
all participants inthe securities marketsincluding: (a) issuers of securities, (b)
intermediaries that conduct securities transactions among other businesses, (c) stock
exchanges, and(d) operators of clearing and settlement facilities. The powers cover
every aspect of the participants' securities market activities and include powers to
undertakeinvestigations, obtain information andtake enforcement action on supervised
entities. All market participants are requiredto register with the Securities Markets
Integral InformationSystem (SIMEV). SIMEV is to provide complete andtimely
information on supervisedentities and will comprise three registries: (i) Securities
                                                                            the
andIssuers Registry which is to contain informationrelatingto securities andissuers, (ii)
the Market Agents Registry which i s to cover persons that undertake securities market
activities (other than issuers) and (iii) Securities MarketProfessionals Registry which
                                        the
i s to cover individuals who are engagedby market agents to conduct market activities.
The SV is given greater powers to take administrative measuresagainst those who
contravenethe law, allowing it to impose a wide range of administrative sanctions and
penaltiesto deter securities violations.

77.      Custody, Clearance and SettlementRegulations. The Law establishesthe
principle of finality andmakes clear the obligations of parties ina concluded securities
transaction, inaccordancewith the rules of a clearing and settlement facility approved by
the SV, whereby such contractual obligations are final and cannot be set aside infavor of
a third party as a consequence of the occurrence of an event such as the insolvency of one
of the parties. Similarly, assets of collective investment schemes are to be kept separate
from the assets of the entity that manages those assets, and are not available to creditors

                                            - 23 -

of such asset managers. The law also provides for the establishment of central
counterparty risk clearing houses which are intended to further reduce the risks andcosts
to market participants since the central counterparty will assume the obligations of every
buyer and seller for securities traded on the market.

78.     Regulation of Intermediaries. The law allows stock exchanges, brokers and other
intermediaries to self-regulate themselves under norms approved b y the SV. The law
makes it compulsory for every brokerage firm to employ a compliance officer who has
the responsibility for ensuring that the firm makes training programs available to its staff
and puts inplace compliance systems to meet its ongoing obligations under the law. The
law also requires that all intermediaries segregate third party funds received for
administration, from the intermediaries' own-account investments.

79.     Shareholder Protection Requirements: The law introduces a number of corporate
governance standards that are designed to protect the rightso f minority shareholders of
securities. Twenty-five percent of the Board Directors of an issuingfirm mustbe
independent of the company as well as of those who hold controlling interests init.
Minority shareholder participation inthe company's general shareholder assemblies i s to
be enhanced by obliging the Board of Directors to put forward for consideration and
providing responses to any requests or resolutions proposed by investors representing
five percent or more of all shareholders.

80.     Harmonization of Mutual Funds Regulation. Besides the reforms established by
the new Securities Law, a number of complementary regulatory initiatives have also been
implemented to improve the functioning of the market. Since the mutual funds
(collective investment schemes) industry had to-date been segmented across the
brokerage, dealer, banking and trust industries with each having different prudential
requirements, it was deemed critical to harmonize such regulations to avoid certain funds
having competitive advantages due to regulatory differences. Inthis context, the SV in
coordination with the SB issued harmonizedregulations specifying the minimum
solvency ratios and capital requirements for the various types of funds under their
respective jurisdictions (mutual, investment, securities and other funds). The regulation
effectively permits funds to leverage the size of their portfolio up to a limit, as a multiple
of their capital base.

81.     The SV has also issued new norms for mutual funds' information disclosure
reportingto the public (`fact sheets') so that financial, management, credit rating and
market riskdata are clearly summarized for the public's evaluation and comparative
review usinguniform standards. Additionally, among the SV and the SB, new reporting
requirements are under advanced design to be implemented for mutual funds and all
collective investment funds -these include the incorporation o f both credit risk and
market risk ratings so that the public may assess the investment risk o f such funds both
from a credit default perspective as well as a market volatility viewpoint.

82.     Market Valuation of Securities. Under the first phase of the reformprogram,
uniform market valuation methodologies were established among the SV, SB, BRC and
the market, to determine the daily price of government securities. Under this second
phase, regulations were issued for the same purpose but with respect to private sector
fixed income securities. Interms of daily market valuation for mutual funds, a new
regulation requires a market value to be established on each trading day so as to avoid

                                             - 24 -

market arbitrage. Previously, the market value constituted the fund's value on the close
of the previous day and this generated opportunities for market manipulation and profit
takingbased on outdated prices used for current day trades whose underlying securities'
prices already contained new information not reflectedin the mutualfund's lagged price.

GovernmentDebt and Money Markets

83.     Under the second phase of the reform, the authorities embarked on an ambitious
reform agenda to further develop the domestic debt and money markets. The reform
package included three carefully sequenced areas for action:

    0   debt market development, focusing primarily on debt issuance strategy;
        money market development, as it relates to the T-bill and repurchase markets; and
    0   improvement inrisk management and measurement by market participants.

84.     The first loan under the programmatic operation emphasized improvements inthe
valuation of treasury securities, and capital regulation for primarydealers inthose
securities, while the reforms supported by the second loan have focused on developing
the short-end of the yield curve to improve market pricing and liquidity, and setting out a
clear debt issuance strategy by an established high-level debt management committee. A
number of complementary measures are also included in the capital markets component
of the loan and described inthe preceding section of this document.

85.     Liquidity of Treasury Securities. The government securities market has
historically sufferedfrom a lack o f liquidity duringperiods of highvolatility, augmented
by the previously lightandnon-enforced obligations of primarydealers that were
required to `make the market'. To establish the market valuation of securities inthe
absence of highly liquidmarkets, a high-level Valuation Committee was established by
the SV and SB to periodically validate or revise the methodologiesused to determine
prices andreference rates. The guidelines for the valuation methodology have also been
published on the web site of the Colombian Stock Exchange.

86.     Short-term Yield Curve. An essential buildingblock to support risk measurement
is the development of the money market via instruments such as the short-term T-bills.
Inthe past, the authorities hadbeen conducting limitedT-bill auctions, optinginsteadfor
the use of forced debt issuance ("colocaciones forzosas y convenidas") with public sector
entities inorder to satisfy their short-term funding needs. This practice hindered the
development of the short-term T-bill market and distorted interest rates, forcing money
market mutual funds to purchase longer-term securities and thereby be exposed to higher
interest rate risks.

87.     Inorder to create a short-termgovernment securities yield curve, the Government,
under the second phase o f the program, established a new issuance programthat relies on
weekly T-bill auctions of progressively greater size. The strategy has initially focused
exclusively on T-bills with a 3-month maturity in order to buildliquidity around that
segment o f the yield curve, andhas been supported by the Central Bank's decision to
abolish the issuance limit ("cupo") for such securities. As a result, weekly issuance has
expanded from 5 billion pesos inJanuary 2003 to 80 billion pesos (US$31 million
equivalent) by mid-2004, Le., a sixteenfold increase, while secondary market liquidity
has picked up considerably allowing the market to price the securities at true market

                                                     - 25 -

value and avoid excessive volatility. Followingthe success of the revolving T-bill
program to-date, the Government intends as part of the continuing reforms, to expand the
issuanceof T-bills to the 6-month maturity window.

88.      Government Debt IssuanceStrategy. Debt issuancehad, untilrecently, been
determined on a short-term basis, thereby sacrificing transparency andpredictability.
This tendedto increasemarketuncertainty and adverselyimpact funding costs,
particularly given the large amount of domestic debt that hadto be rolled over frequently.
Inorder to address this vulnerability, important steps havebeenundertakento streamline
and develop the policy and operational framework of debt issuance. First, as part of the
secondphase of the reformprogram, the functional fragmentation of, andduplication in
many debt managementresponsibilities was eliminated via the merger of the
Departmentsof Public Credit and of the Treasury within the Ministry of Finance. The
consolidation of the cash and debt managementfunctions allows important opportunities
for gains inthe form of operational savings, greater financing flexibility, strengthened
accountability, and a more unifiedfunding strategy and stance towards market
participants.

89.      Second,an "Internal Committee for Public DebtPolicy", formalized by Decree
921/2004 and comprised of Senior Ministry andCentral Bank officials, will advise the
Finance Minister on the development of debt managementpolicy. The Committee will
coordinate the different functions within the Ministry involvedindebt management
issues and provide the supporting analysis for high-level policy decisions, takinginto
account macroeconomic conditions and the state of financial markets. The Committee is
also taskedin settingthe guidelinesfor risk managementof public debt, adopting
referencebenchmark portfolios, developing methodsto assess public debt sustainability,
coordinating debt issues with entities within and outside the Finance Ministry, and
evaluating contingent debts inthe form of State guarantees.

90.      TheRepurchaseMarket. Money market liquidity i s also expected to improve
following the introduction of new measureswhich strengthenthe efficiency of the
repurchasemarket. This first covers the regulatory codification of the three existing
types of repurchasetransactions (repos, simultaneous exchangesof securities with cash
loans, and temporary securities swaps). An inter-agency working group produced a
report that identifiedsome of the regulatory gaps to be addressed, includingthe
incorporation of provisions regarding the contracted legal finality of repurchase
transactions incorporatedinthe new Securities Law'', and the implementation of anew
collateral systemfor Central Bankrep0 operations as well as a securities lending and
borrowingfacility linkedto the clearing and settlement system.

Results Attained toDate

91.      Whilethe full impact of the Programmatic ReformProgram will be measured
basedon results more fully reflected inthe mediumterm, the Program has to-date helped
generatemeasurableoutputs which will support the longer term impact and sustainability
of the reforms. These are summarized inthe table below.


'"For  example, under a repurchase contract involving the temporary borrowing of cash and the
simultaneous provision of a market security as collateral, the new norm recognizes such an `open' contract
as a legally binding priority to both parties, avoiding third party legal loopholes or competing claims.

                                                  - 26 -




                Table 5: CurrentQuantifiable ResultsSupportedbythe Program

           OBJECTIVE                                  RESULT/ OUTPUT INDICATOR

BANKREGULATION                      (i) netreturnonaverageearningassetsofthebankingsystem
                                       The
   Banking stability and            increasedfrom 1.1% at end-2002 to 2.7% by May 2004.
supporting financial and balance    (ii) nonperformingloansratiodecreasedfrom13.6%to9.2%
                                         The
sheet strength indicators become    during the same period.
evident. Enhancedbanking            (iii) capitaladequacyratio(capitalasa%ofriskweightedassets)
                                         The
supervision powers is evidenced     increasedfrom 12.5% to 14.5% during a period in which stricter
via prompt application of           capital and loan classification standards were implemented.
sanctions and fines.                (iv) The Banking Superintendency, between May 2003 and June
                                    2004, applies fifty three sanction actions and penalties to credit
                                    institutions that were not complying with legal and prudential norms.

BANKRESOLUTION
   Reductiono f fiscal liabilities  (i) DepositInsuranceAgency, FOGAFIN,hasdivestedandsold
                                       The
and State interests in intervened   banking assets previously in State hands. These include COP 9.8
financial institutions i s achieved billion (US$3.8 million) of Granahorrar mortgage assets during 2003.
via the sale of their assets and    (ii) portfoliopreviouslysupportedbyStatereliefcredits
                                         The
matching liabilities through the    (`alivios') was sold in 2003 to 65,000 mortgage holders for COP 224
new securitizatiodtrust             billion (US$ 86 million). Out of 480 real estate assets at the start of
mechanisms.                         the vear. 239 were sold.

HOUSINGFINANCE
   Mortgage backed securities       (i) FOGAFINadministeredinflationhedgeformortgage
                                       The
develop. Public policy tools to     borrowers, was implemented with over 14,000 subscribers covering
augment the housing finance         loans up to US$135 million equivalent.
market (e.g.: interest rate hedge,  (ii) issuesofmortgagebackedsecuritieswerecompletedin
                                         Thirty
inflationswap), improve the         2003 for a total of US$700millionequivalent. InJune 2004, the first
operation, risk management of the   issue of non performing asset backed securities (US$64 million) took
markets.                            dace.

INSURANCE/ NONBANKS                 New regulations on insurance solvency margins and upgraded norms
   The solvency of the insurance    for determining technical reserves, were developed by the SB and
industry is confirmed with respect  publishedfor industry comment and actuarial review.
to international standards.

CAPITAL MARKETS
    Increased issuances of          Twenty-eight public offerings of securities were made in 2003 for an
securities on the capital markets   amount of US$1.8 billion equivalent, an increase of 19% with respect
and purchasesby securities are      to the previous year.
evident.

GOVERNMENTDEBT                      A program of weekly issuance of 90 days T-bills has been
    A regular issuanceprogramfor    implemented with issuance authorization expanded from COP 5
government securities is            billion (US$ 1.9 mn. equivalent) in January 2003 to COP 80 billion
implemented.                        (US$31mnequivalent). 90 day T-bills issued in 2003 amounted to
                                    US$238mn. and 180day T-bills were US$34 mn. In2004 through
                                    July, 90 day T-bill issuance was US$661mn.

                                             - 27 -

          PART111. THE PROPOSEDLOAN: SECONDPHASEOF THE
                       PROGRAMMATICREFORMPROGRAM

A.      LoanDescription:Objectiveand Rationalefor BankInvolvement

92.     LoanObjective. The objective of the loanis to contribute to awell capitalized,
regulated, supervised, and efficient financial system which i s less vulnerable to future
shocks and efficiently intermediates savings, provides credit, capital, and other financial
services to Colombian investors, consumers, and home-owners including the underserved
sectors. It also will aim to facilitate greater domestic and foreign investment, reduce the
cost of financing, andcontribute to strengthened competitiveness, higher productivity and
eventualjob creation.

93.     Towards these ends, the loan will support policy actions to operationalize the
reforms set inmotion under the first phase o f the program and implement a new legal and
regulatory framework for the modernization of the securities market andthe upgrading of
riskmanagement norms inthe mutualfunds, pension, insurance andtrust industries.
With the new banking framework approved under the first phase, the loan supports the
full implementationof the institutional and regulatory mechanisms for applyingthe new
standards for banking risk management, corporate governance, relatedparty transactions,
transparency to the public, bank exit procedures, sanctions and penalties regimes,
assessment o f bank vulnerabilities, prioritization of corrective actions, divestment
procedures o f state owned financial institutions, and resolutiontools to prevent the
contagion caused by potential future financial disruptions.

94.     This second phasepushes the envelope for the financial sector to further support
economic growth through the implementation of market oriented mechanisms to increase
the supply o f securities and savings instruments to fund productive enterprises andto
increase competitiveness inthe form of increasingly diverse investment channels, while
enhancing the provision of micro housing credit and augmentingfinancing for the overall
mortgage market. This includes the establishment o f a level playing field inthe valuation
o f financial assets andcapital requirements for mortgage backed securities, and
encouraging expansion of the mortgage industrythrough the implementationo f modern
riskmanagement andinteresthnflation hedging instruments. Inaddition, the operating
framework for the insurance, pensions, trusts and mutualfund industries i s strengthened
and equalized to ensure transparency inthe reporting of asset performance and
management, while disclosing inherent market and credit risks through standard reporting
conventions across these industries.

95.     The key pillar of the second phase, however, i s the implementation of a new
framework for the operation o f the capital markets to encourage that market's growth and
provide additional and alternative sources o f funding and investment for the economy. In
this context, the framework for the securities market corrects many of the costs,
inefficiencies and latent risks existent under the earlier framework, so that securities
market regulation and supervision are seen as rigorous and as well monitored as banking
regulation, thus promoting additional participation by both issuers and investors alike.
Relatedreforms inthe government debt and money markets support the capital markets
infrastructure through the formation of reference interests rates on the yield curve and the
implementation of standardized method for the valuation of market securities, both public
and private.

                                                           - 28 -

          96.       The detailed prior actions taken, referencedagainst the triggers for the operation,
          are shown inthe table below. All triggers for this second operation have been completed
          andrelatedprior actionstaken underthe loanhavebeenmet. Additional prior actions
          exceeded the trigger requirementsas inthe case of new investment regulations issuedfor
          pension funds, as well as the proactive launching of a new micro housing credit program.
          Other cases such as the issuanceof final insuranceregulations which are awaiting
          insuranceindustry review, or the offer for sale of a state bank which has not yet attracted
          final bidders, madeprogress but requirefurther follow up. Overall, the key triggers were
          fully met and the relevant prior actions havebeencompleted and implemented.



                   Table 6: Summary of SecondLoanTriggersand Status of Actions Completed

         Triggers for Second Operation                    Status I Comments                Reforms Actions Completed

                                                                                     Macroeconomic Policv Environment

                                                    The macroeconomic                A stable macroeoconomic environment
                                                    environment has continued to      is maintained through the
                                                    improve, supported primarily      implementation of sound fiscal,
                                                    by increased growth which has     inflation and other policies including
                                                    helped reduce the pubic sector    supplementary fiscal
                                                    deficit.                          legislative/regulatory measures
                                                                                      approved.

Banking Regulation                                                                   Bank Regulation
The Borrower through: (a) MoF has issued
Decrees for implementing the financial system       Regulations and decrees          MoFand SB have issued 65 regulatory
reform law and (b) SB has issuedcirculars and       related to the law, were issued. decrees, circulars to implement Law
regulatory amendmentsto adapt existing              Regulations on conglomerates     795 for the resolution of troubled
regulations to the supervision of financial         were approved by the             banks, including regulations specifying

conglomerates and related parties.                  Superintendent of Banks and      procedures for the carve out and
                                                    published for general public     transfer of assets and deposits from
                                                    comment -- to be officially      weak banks, the use of asset
                                                    issued once the public and the   securitization vehicles for the efficient
                                                    Superintendencies of             transfer o f such assets to acquiring
                                                    Securities and of Companies      banks, and internal directives on

The Borrower through the SB has demonstrated:       submit final comments.           sanctions to invoke for use in applying
(a) the application and enforcement of the Law                                        corrective actions and monetary fines,
795-2003 via actions such as specifying and         As per prior actions above, the   proportional to the level of the
integrating in a sequencedmanner, prompt            sanctions guidelines and          regulatory/legal infraction.
corrective actions to be applied, and developing    procedures have been fully

procedural handbooks specifying enforcement of      approved and implemented.

remedial actions under a graduated regime of        Procedures for the risk based
sanctions, and (b) the effectiveness and            inspections were also

improvement of supervision via progress on          documented and implemented,

benchmarks established under it's Strategic Plan,   and a resource plan was

including the improvement of risk assessments       approved to review and roll

made for financial institutions, the conducting of  out the risk-based regulatory

consolidated financial group examinations, and the  models o f all banks.
investment of resources for SB's institutional      Additional budget could not

strengthening.                                      be provided given the
                                                    Government's across-the-
                                                    board budget freeze and
                                                    reductions as part of its fiscal
                                                    adjustment.

                                                            - 29 -


          Triggers for Second Operation                    Status I Comments               Reforms Actions Completed

 The Borrower through MoFhas undertaken a
 financial sector stability review to assess future
 banking system health usingprojections of: (a) the
 risks of weak banking institutions under low        The Review was completed
 growth scenarios; (b) the banking sector's actual   and approved by the Banking
 cash flows; (c) the government debt securities held Superintendency and the
 by commercial banks and its possible risks to said  Ministry of Finance.
 banks; and (d) contingency plans to resolve any
 potential negative effects within said sector.




 The Borrower through FOGAFIN,has undertaken         IF1was merged and                 jOGAFIN has conducted an
 progressive actions in the divestmentldismantling   liquidated. BANCAFE was           nternational bidding for BANCAFE,
 of insolvent State banks, and measuresfor selling   approved for privatization, and   indthe Government has offered the
 off assets of said banks to the private sector.     offered for sale. Interested      lank to private investors for sale. The
                                                     investors did not bidbut the      State development bank, IFI, has been
                                                     Government continues with         :losed and remaining viable assets and
                                                     the bank improvement              issociated liabilities of IF1were
                                                     program under its action plan,    nerged into BANCOLDEX. An
                                                     so as to offer it again for sale  4ction Plan has been approved by
                                                     andlor divest its assets.         'OGAFIN for the continued financial
                                                                                       Improvement and eventual sale or
                                                                                       jivestment o f BANCAFE and
                                                                                       SRANAHORRAR assets, as going
                                                                                       :oncerns or via alternative
                                                                                       mechanisms.

 HousingFinance                                                                        Housing Finance

 The Borrower though FOGAFIN, SV and SB, has         The Government fully              (i) Government,througha
                                                                                          The
 taken measuresto increase the competitiveness,      implementedthe inflation and      FINDETER program, has implemented
 soundness, efficiency and transparency of the       interest rate hedging             a rediscounting program for banks and
 mortgage industry, and to improve the institutional instruments to protect banks      finance companies to offer mortgage
 set-up to support housing micro finance.            and borrowers against             and real estate micro-credits to lower
                                                     mortgage market risks and to      income communities, (ii) banking
                                                                                                                   the
                                                     protect the financial condition   sector has entered into a voluntary
                                                     of those banks, while             agreement with the Government to
                                                     encouraging new entrants.         offer credit to the micro-housing
                                                     The institutional set up to       finance sector or fund FINDETER
I                                                    support micro housing credit      bonds for use in the same program, (iii)
                                                     was implemented with              the National Guarantee Fundis
                                                     combined support of state and     providing insurance products, based on
                                                     private institutions. This was    actuarially based premiums, to cover
                                                     an alternative to up-front steep  financial institutions against losses
                                                     commissions for micro             from housing micro-credit and social
                                                     borrowers (allowed in the law)    mortgage loans.
                                                     which was seen as socially
                                                     unfeasible by the Executive.

                                                                                       The SB sets risk-adjusted capital
 The Borrower through SV and SB has taken            All pertinent norms and           adequacy rules for multi-tranche
 measuresto ensure that secondary mortgage           regulations have been             securitized instruments held by banks
 market regulations and practices are adjusted,      approved and issued.              and raises prudential capital
 including improved securitization methodologies                                       performing mortgage loans,

                                                             -30-


                                                            Status I Comments            Reforms Actions Completed
                                                                                    develops capital rules for market, credit
and oversight functions between banks and                                           and 'own position' risks of
securitization companies.                                                           securitization companies.

Non-Bank Financial Institutions                     The SB progressedin             NonBank Financial Institutions
The Borrower through SB has demonstrated (a)        completing a draft set o f      The SB has issued (a) Value-at-risk
significant progress in the implementationof new    regulations on solvency and     methodologies and regulations
insurance regulations addressing solvency margin    technical reserves for various  requiring the reporting risk adjusted
standardsand methodologies to upgrade the           branchesof the insurance        market returns o f Insurance
calculation of technical and mathematical reserves, industry. The Banking           Companies, AFPs, and Trusts, and(b)
and (b) set forth regulatory methodologies for      Superintendent endorsed these   regulations expandingthe limits of
identifyingValues-at-Risk in the pensions, trust    and is awaiting their issuance  investments by AFPs in foreign
and insurance industries' investment portfolios.    following the final review by
                                                    an actuarial expert and receipt securities with adequatecredit ratings,

                                                    of final comments from the      and limiting AFP investments inrelated
                                                    industry. The value-at-risk     party institutions.
                                                    methodologies and regulations
                                                    for the pensions, trust and
                                                    insurance industries were fully
                                                    implemented. Additionally,
                                                    the SB issued new regulations
                                                    on the investment regime for
                                                    the pension funds (AFPs).

                                                                                    Capital Markets
Capital Markets
The Borrower through SV, has implemented a new      A fully satisfactory version of The reformed Securities Law has been

Securities regulatory and institutional framework   the Securities Law was          presented by the Executive to the

covering, inter alia:                               presentedto the Congress by     Congress for approval, and includes

  (a) Corporate governance norms including role     the Executive, for approval.    provisions for supervisory powers,

  of the Board, management, auditors, and other                                     custody/settlement systems,

  industry officials;                                                               qualification of intermediaries,
  (b) Securities issuance norms and disclosure                                      shareholder protection, and corporate

  requirements includingrationalized procedures                                     governance.

  for issuance; and
  (c) Qualification of standards for industry
  professionals and entrants.                       A consistent regulatory
                                                    framework regarding capital     Regulations governing the operation

The Borrower through the coordination between       requirements and leveraging,    and prudential capital requirements of

SV and SB, has harmonized the regulatory and        was established among the       mutual funds or other collective

supervisory framework for the mutual and            mutual funds and other          investment schemes, daily market

investment funds industry -- trust institutions,    collective investment           valuation of such funds; have been

specialized investment funds and mutual funds       industries and agreed between   harmonized across the banking, trust

under different supervisory authorities are placed  the SB and the SV. The SV       and securities sectors overseen by the

within a consistent framework.                      additionally, issued norms for   SB an the SV, and information
                                                    information disclosure of fund  disclosure reports for the public,

The Borrower through SV has implemented             performance and risks, under    covering the credit ratings, market

valuation guidelines for a range of public          summary public reports.          risks, commission bases, and returns

securities and private fixed income instruments.                                    history for the mutual fund/ collective
                                                                                     investment scheme industry, have been
                                                                                     implemented.



Government Debt Markets                                                              Government Debt Markets

The Borrower through MoF, has developed an                                          As part of the Government's debt
issuance strategy for government debt developed     The Government conformed         management and debt markets strategy,
through a coordinated effort comprising technical   an official Debt Management     the MoF has: (a) following the merger
                                                    "---:ttaa    h., den+aa ..,:+hn

                                                       - 31 -


        Triggers for Second Operation                 Status/ Comments               Reforms Actions Completed
teams from the MoF regulatory units, the DGCP, Committee by decree, with a      of its Treasury and Public Debt
and the Central Bank.                          mandate and terms o f            Departments, issued a Decree naming a
                                               reference to oversee the debt    formal Public Debt Management
                                               issuancestrategy. A program      Committee and specifying the policy
                                               of significant short term T-bill and risk management priorities for a
                                               issuancewas implementedto        debt management strategy, and (b)
                                                start a market reference for    implemented an issuanceprogram of
                                               interest rates on the short end  90 day T-bills, to establish a short term
                                               of the yield curve.              government securities (T-bill) zero risk
                                                                                yield curve based on increased liquidity
                                                                                and secondary market price formation
                                                                                inthe short end of the market.




         97.      Program Amount and Sequencing. This loan constitutes the secondphase of a
         Programmatic Operation, and reflects aone-tranche operation of US$ 100million which
         follows the first loan of US$ 150million under the program. All prior actions for this
         secondoperation have been implemented. The disbursement of the loan will take place
         following compliance with all standardBank effectiveness conditions and verification of
         met conditionality reflected inofficial and legal records. Mediumterm monitoring
         indicators of the program will continue as part of the Bank's ongoing financial sector
         policy dialogue with the Government, with outcomes to be assessed as part of a two-
         phaseevaluation of the results of the combined program.

         Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy

         98.      Relation to Country Assistance Strategy. The two phases of this Programmatic
         Operation are a core element of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
         Colombia, as reflected inthe CAS report 25129-CO dated December 24,2002 which was
         discussedand endorsedby the Boardof Executive Directors on January 16,2003. Given
         the previous financial sector weaknesses which hadfor the most part been resolved by
         2001, the financial sector strategy involves a major revamping of the regulatory and
         operating framework of banks, nonbanks and capital marketinstitutions, to identify all
         possible risks which could impact the financial system and ensure a secure environment
         for saving. Addressingthese issuesas part of a preventive and strengthening strategy by
         the Government, also dovetails with the Government's economic program for resuming
         private sector ledgrowth andproviding an enabling and stable environment for financial
         institutions to participate inthe fundingof such growth.

         99.      This is to be accomplishedbothbydirect funding (e.g.: credit, bonds) of
         enterprises through the banking and securities markets, and through the development of
         sound and prudentially managedinvestment vehicles (e.g.: mutual funds, trusts, pension
         funds, insurancecompanies) which can providetransparent saving vehicles with which to
         multiply and channel investment funding into the economy. Separately, additional
         vehicles for promoting growth through the financial system, include initiativesto
         promote the expansion of micro housing credit to allow underserved communities to
         accumulate wealth through real assets and encourage an expansion inhome construction
         andretrofittingtailored to the characteristics of each community.

                                             - 32 -

100. Bank/ZFC Coordination. The reform programplus complementary activities in
the Colombian financial sector, has benefitedfrom extensive collaboration and
supporting interventions between the Bank andF C . Inthe banking area, both
institutions provided guidance and advice on the restructuring and eventual sale of state-
intervenedor state-owned banks -this constituting a key element of the Government
strategy to transfer banking activity to the private sector. Inthe mortgage sector, a key
driving component of the reforms was the establishment and operation of a loan
securitization company to which F C contributed start-up capital as a minority
investor/shareholder. Inthe capital markets sector, both the technical inputs of the Bank
and IFC were instrumentalindeveloping the new securities law and incorporatingbest
practice elements. Interms of developing the domestic bond market, while the Bank
provided support for reforms to establish a benchmark yield curve inthe government
securities market, IFCprovided technical assistancein the development of the private
domestic-currency bond market.

101.     Timing and Level of Financial Support. Interms of budgetary andbalance of
payment financing requirements, the Government requires substantial support to meet
projectedfinancing gaps. While access to international capital markets has improved, the
Government's gross financing requirements will continue to rely in the medium term on
multilateral and official financing support. The Government's funding needs are based
on macroeconomic projections of GDP growth of 4 percent in2004 and 3.5 percent in
2005. Duringthis period, the consolidated public sector budget deficit is projected at -2.8
percent of GDP for 2004 and -2.9 percent for 2005 though under the IMFAgreement the
Government will target the deficit in2005 at -2.4 percent. Duringthe medium term
adjustment period, the external debt/GDP ratio i s expected to remain stable with a slight
rise from 45 percent in 2004 to 46 percent in 2005. The net debt ratio to GDP i s
estimated at 32 percent for 2004 and 33 percent in2005.

102.    With a projectedcurrent account balance of US$ -1.9 billon andUS$ -2.5 billion
for 2004 and2005, respectively, the Government requires external financing. Since debt
repayment for those years are estimated at US$3.6 billion and US$3.7 billion for each
year, the total financing requirement reaches US$5.5 billion for 2004 and US$6.2 billion
for 2005. On a net basis, private direct investment and portfolio flows do not contribute
any significant net additional financing and so the Government i s mainly dependent on
official financing and medium term private debt flows (government bond issues,
commercial credit). The combination o f official and private financing amounts to US$
6.1 billion andUS$6.2 billionfor 2004 and 2005 respectively, out of which the US$0.1
billion of this loan constitutes part of the official/multilateral financing share.

                                             - 33 -

                                            Table 7
                               ExternalFinancing Requirements
                                        (US$ millions)


                                                   2003         2004          2005
                                                   (est.)      (proj.)       (proj.)
            Current Account Balance               (1,417)     (1,873)        (2,485)

            Debt Repayment Obligations            (4,097)      (3,621)       (3,741)

            Financing, net (gap = ( ) )           (5,514)     (5,494)        (6,226)

             Official Flows & Public Issues        5,679        6,136         6,196
             Direct Investment Flows                836         1,850         2,200
             Portfolio Investment Flows           (3,493)        33            139
             Other Net Capital Flows               2,568       (1,721)       (1,972)

             Int. Reserves [ (-)=increase]          (76)        (804)         (337)



103.    Medium Term Objectivesand Outcomes. For the banking system, the expected
outcomes which are already evident as well as medium term objectives, include a more
solid risk capital allocation inbanking institutions setting the basis for additional
investment andeconomic growth along with increased depositor safety. This will be
coupled with upgraded risk management procedures implemented at the institutional
level and reflecting improvedbanking solvency. Interms o f the ownership composition
of the sector, a steadily declining share of state ownership o f bank assets will help reduce
government exposure to the sector. Additional reductions ingovernment exposure and
fiscal obligations would be evident inthe medium term, following the use of the deposit
insurance fund and its deployment under modernized bank resolution procedures which
would minimize fiscal outlays. Inthe housing finance area, the outcomes include a
projectedreemergence of the mortgage loan market and expanding it to the underserved
sectors to increase home ownership and eventual wealth -this being associated with the
implementation of market risk sharing mechanisms and special incentive programs.

104.    The increased transparency in capital requirements and inpractices for reporting
on investment andrisk management of insurance companies, pension funds, and trusts,
will augment competitiveness inattracting savings for domestic investment purposes, as
well as increase the comparability among similar financial services thus increasing
transparent disclosure interms of direct equivalence of pricing practices and fee ratios for
asset management services. Similarly, with the implementation of the new securities law,
a more transparent and risk conscious operation of capital markets at lower costs andwith
clearer settlement rules, as well as with more technological automation - i s expected to
increase the volume of securities issuance and generate additional competitive financial
services to channel funding for both domestic and foreign investment. A prudent debt
management strategy and the creation of a broader market reference rate will generate
increased issuances o f private securities thus providing alternative investments to
government debt.

                                             - 34 -

105.    Bank Role in the Medium Term Program. A plannedongoing policy dialogue
through, inter alia, an FSAPupdate to be initiatedin October 2004 andconcluded with an
issuedreport inearly 2005 will provide an additional opportunity for the Bank to review
the implementation successes or shortfalls of the Programmatic Operation. Inaddition to
this program's financial support for the implementation of policy reforms, the Bank will
maintain an active engagementthrough nonlendingtechnical assistance, special purpose
grants (e.g.: FIRSTfund) and other means, to ensure the operationalization of the reforms
including such aspects as the application, when warranted, of the new bank resolution
proceduresand the dissemination of other evolvingelements of the program (such as
access to finance) and on lessons and successful applications inother countries.

106.     As follow upto this loan's project preparationefforts with respectto state-of-the-
art norms on consolidated financial group accounting and supervision norms, non-lending
technical assistancewill continue, inorder to test implementation of the identificationof
relatedparty risks and prevention of the duplication of capital within financial
conglomerates. While the program's secondphasedeveloped comprehensive regulations
for this purpose, given the needfor review by the industry and other regulatory agencies
involvedinthe corporate sector, the Bank will continue follow up underthe FSAPupdate
on the progressinimplementing these norms.

107.     With respect to the housing finance area, initiativesby the Bank are already
underway to provide technical assistanceon global comparisons inthis sector, and will
monitor the application of new housing finance market instruments inColombia as well
as the actuarial sustainability of riskhedgingandloss insurance mechanismsto protect
against market risks, while pushingthe policy envelope to develop potential alternative
indexation options for housing loan pricing. The insurance sector is expectedto receive
ongoing policy advice on the quantification of underwritingrisks including catastrophic
risks in the industry and the relatedestablishment of solvency margins for comprehensive
risks.

108.     For the capital markets sector, the Bank has a vested interest inthe unrolling and
full implementation of this reformand itsresultant impactinthis market. Through
existing special purpose grant facilities, the Bank is already providingfollow up support
for the implementation of sound market monitoring mechanisms, development of the
mutualfunds industry andimplementationof capital adequacy norms for marketplayers.
Additional advice i s anticipated with respect to the application of state-of-the-art
securities settlement systems and associatedoperating norms -with inputsand lessons
garneredfrom the Western Hemisphere Payments Systems Initiative co-managedby the
Bank. With respectto the government debt securities markets, the Bank, through the
Treasurer's Vice Presidencyhas recently agreedto a follow-up advisory program on
institutionalizing a structured debt managementand risk monitoring strategy which will
help support, inter alia, the continued efforts for a fiscally sustainabledebt issuance
program on the shorter segments of the yield curve and the establishment of a zero risk
marketpricingbenchmark.

                                            - 35 -

B.      Program Conditionality

Prior Actionsfor Board Presentation and Outcomes of the SecondLoan

109.    The secondpart of the Programbuildsupon the reforms enactedduring the first
phase, particularly after the enactment on Law 795/2003, andis basedon supporting
tangible implementation andenforcement actions. Inparticular with respectto the
bankingsector, prior actions center aroundthe implementation of Law 795 through the
issuanceof the necessaryregulations and implementation of concrete institutionally
sustainable reforms. The upgrading of the securities market legal and regulatory
framework will be the key legislative reform accomplishedthrough the presentation to
the Congress of anew SecuritiesLaw, and the subsequent enactment of regulations for
implementing it.

110. Prior to Board Presentation of the Second Loan. The SecondLoan will be made
available once the Government has: (i)    continued to maintain a soundmacroeconomic
framework andmeet its agreedprogram targets, (ii)     confirmed that all legislative and
relatedregulations under the first operation remaininforce, and (iii) out all the
                                                                       carried
specified regulatory, institutional reform, marketenhancement measures, and
implementation actions. All prior actions have been completed at present. The full set of
such actions, specified as legal conditions inthe loan agreement, are listedinAnnex 1
(Policy Matrix, fourth column initalics).

111. Expected Outcomes,Implementation Benchmarks and Results Monitoring.
Followingthe FSAPwhich i s expectedto take place after the disbursement of this loan,
the Bank's post-FSAPfollow upwork will continue the monitoring, nonlending
technical assistanceefforts, policy dialogue, andpossible new project preparation to
ensure sustainability of the reforms.

112.    Inthis context, implementation resultsto bemonitoredinclude bankingbalance
sheet strengtheningusing measurementsof solvency ratios, returns on assets, returns on
equity, portfolio quality, and other indicators, under a regulatory environment
demonstrating the application of tighter prudential norms. This will be coupled with
process results includingevidence that the SB has taken action on conflict-of-interest and
relatedparty exposure regulatory breaches, and the application of sanctions and
corrective actions demonstrating the reductions of such risks and desisting of such
practices through the effective application of dissuasive actions such as the application of
fines. The Government through the SB has already instituted a systemfor tracking
regulatory breachesby financial institutions so as to document and assure consistent
application of the new sanctions and penalties regime. To address the potentialcapacity
constraints inthe SB's implementation of the new SARC risk-model basedapproach to
banking, atime line includinghuman resource requirements to review bank draft models,
will take into account realistic analysis time and thus adjust the implementation program
to such administrative parameters.

113.    Inthe event of futurebank weaknesses, requiringresolution, the full application
of new asset transfer procedures usingsecuritization mechanisms and trust instruments
will be evaluatedto determine how the least cost option involving, alternatively, paying
or transferring depositor funds to new banks, has been carried out. At the same time,
verification that coverage of the smallest depositors i s assuredeither through cash

                                                      - 36 -

payments or transfers to other banks as part of asset carve out procedures, will be
monitored. Inparallel, the divestment of state banks and/or sale of assets will be reported
interms of proceeds received bythe Government andlevelsof reductionincontingent
liabilities, including obligations to depositors of those institutions. The Government
through FOGAFINwill be monitoring this process as its proceeds to pro-actively change
strategies inthe event that initial institutional sales do not materialize and alternative
approaches such as asset sales need to be considered to achieve the same objective. In
the case of outright liquidations, implementation benchmarks will also include the
recorded reduction intime for the foreclosure of collateral assets (e.g.: real estate)
underlying the loan portfolios being liquidated.

114. Inthe housing area, a key results indicator will be the rate of increase inthe
provision and demand for micro credit as well as the related increase inhome ownership,
particularly inthe lower income segments of the population. To supplement information
provided by the formal financial sector, the Government will also count on NGOs such as
employer savings funds and cooperatives to report on increases inmicro housing
borrowing. As part o f the enabling environment inthe mortgage market for increased
fundingto this sector, evidence of increased liquidity and trading of mortgage bonds will
provide turnover inthe mortgage banking sector, which should allow new lending to take
place. Similarly, the continued implementationo f new and alternative interest
ratehnflationhedges as well as possible new loan indexing approaches, should begin
reducingthe market risks inherent inthe mortgage business and increase participation in
that market. The continued implementation and subscriptionby banks to the new interest
rate option instrument developed by the BRC would be evidence o f the success of this
hedge mechanism against interest rate increases. The taking up of this product by the
private sector would constitute a full market acceptance and internalization of the
approach.

115.     Under the insurance sector, the application o f stricter underwriting, capital and
solvency norms including provisions for market and operational risks, should result in
consolidation of the industry towards fewer and more solid players with the incidence of
"fronting"" operations reduced and eventually eliminated. The Government will
supplement the analytical capacity o f the Insurance arm of the SB by hiringprivate sector
insurance experts and actuaries to test viability and realism of the new solvency and
reservingnorms. Inthe other non-bank sectors, a similar consolidation and
standardization of operating norms with respect to investment management by industry
players such as mutual funds, trusts and pension funds, should occur, given the increased
competition that would be promoted within a framework of equivalent regulatory norms
andstandardized reportingon investment risks andreturns.

116.     The reform of the capital markets regulatory framework will set inmotion
significant cultural changes inthe operation and transparency o f that market. With new
investor protection safeguards, a focus on avoiding systemic market risks, more cost
effective and efficient technology mechanisms for trading, and more uniformasset
valuation methodologies; increased issuance activity and secondary market trading


"Frontingoperationsrefertoinsurancecompanieswhichcedealloftheirunderwritingriskstoreinsurance
companies. Hence they operate with little or no capital and rely on reinsurance protection for a premium.
Such operations are discouraged since they can be established with little or no capital and they serve mainly
to capture clientele for the benefit o f the reinsurance business which usually has no local presence.

                                            - 37 -

should constitute a major outcome which would increase the source of investment
fundingfor the real sector. This would likelybe more evident inthe mediumterm and
beyond. The Government through the SV will particularly focus its program monitoring
efforts on (i)due diligence and accuracy indisclosure, (ii) qualification of market
participants and new entrants, and (iii)detection of conflict of interest transactions. The
Government's plan to merge the SV with the SB may also generate synergies in
providing additional monitoring and evaluation tools to detect irregularities inthe
securities sector.

117.    Complementing the capital markets, the continued "filling in" o f the short term
segments o f the yield curve through the organized issuance of government securities of
significant volume while managing debt exposure, would establish a market benchmark
evidenced by the increased issuance of private sector securities whose pricing would be
referenced to the government debt benchmark. The Government's Public Credit and
Treasury Directorate will also carefully monitor the performance of market makers, Le.,
private banks tasked with developing the secondary government securities market. This,
coupledwith the application of fixed income securities valuation rules, should provide
incentives to price such assets ina transparent manner and thus promote trading without
previous uncertainties regarding market arbitrage or lack o f a collective price quotation
mechanism. The implementation of the Government's Debt Management Committee
will also help to balance the market requirements with the fiscal sustainability issues
implied by the generation o f government debt instruments, and provide additional
oversight to foresee and prevent any potential market risks.

C.      Disbursementand Auditing.

118.    Procedures for disbursements will follow the simplified norms for Structural
Adjustment and Sector Adjustment Loans. The Government will utilize an account inthe
BRC for this purpose. After the Bank formally notifies the Government that a tranche i s
available for disbursement, the Government may submit a withdrawal application so that
the proceeds o f the tranche are deposited by the Bank, in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. For the purposes of loan disbursements and audits, the Government will
specify the deposit account prior to furnishingthe Bank with the first request for
withdrawal from the loan account, and maintain inthe BRC, a dollar denominated
account. All disbursements from the loan account will be deposited by the Bank into the
Government's deposit account operating at the BRC, in a manner similar to a commercial
bank account without requiring the use o f intermediary commercial bank accounts. The
Government i s committed for the proceeds o f the loan to be used only for eligible
expenditures based on the negative list specified for the loan. The Bank will reserve the
rightto request an audit of the deposit account conductedinaccordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and any other information concerningthe deposit account and the audit.

D.      EnvironmentalAspects

119.    The loan has no direct impact on the environment. Interms of Operational
Directive 4.01, it classified with an environmental category of C, and does not require an
environmental assessment. Environmental considerations, nevertheless, are implicit in
some of the program's policies being implemented. For example, in the process of
assessingthe value of collateral used inthe foreclosure o f loans, the government andthe

                                            - 38 -

private industry, when taking part as creditors or liquidators of bank assets being
disssolved or sold, consider as part of the prudential review of suchunderlyingassets,
whether they are attachedto existing environmental liabilities (e.g.: real property inflood
zones, industrial property insensitive areas) to ensure an adequate market valuation of
such assets and liabilities.

E.      SocialAspects andPovertyImpact

120.    While the loan is not specifically gearedtoward poverty reduction initiatives, it
does contain certain social safety nets which would mitigate any lossesimposed on lower
income sectors, inthe event of bank failures, as well as augment access to underserved
communities to increasetheir wealth accumulation through housing market funding
mechanisms. The prudentfinancial managementof the deposit insurancefund and the
ability of the Government to transfer assets with depositsunderthe new reforms, will
assure the long term sustainability of the deposit insurance system and inparticular, its
ability to protect insureddepositors, most of which constitute the smallest deposits of
individualswith modest assets. Savings will beencouragedto rise as individuals
perceive their savings to be more secure. The reformprogram also putsinplace a
number of mechanismsto reachout to the lower income communities with bank funding
instruments at reasonablecosts inorder for such communities to gain access to micro
housingcredits and purchase or improve their core homesteadwealth. This should also
generateincreasedmicro, small and enterprise financing with the requisite collateral
backing, thus creatingjobs and expanding employment opportunities, including for the
poor. The Bank will give priority to monitoring this to ensure the success of this
component of the program.

F.      BenefitsandRisks

121.    Benefits. This operation, which buildsandcompletes the reforms startedinthe
first phase, will result in a number of benefits aimed at strengthening the capital structure
and solvency of the financial system. This will result inmore strongly capitalized and
competitively diverse financial institutions which will serve to increase private sector
domestic investment, contribute to economic productivity, and augment financing to
underservedgroups to support home construction and improvement. Essentially, the
reforms tackle multifaceted risks inthe banking, nonbank and capital market sectors
(credit, market, governance, operational) and put inplace measuresto mitigate those risks
and avoid future financial instabilitywhile preventing disruptive regulatory arbitrage
among the sectors. The transparency, strengthening and stability measures, which will
benefit consumers and investors alike, are implemented with regulatory, supervisory and
market mechanisms.

122.    On the regulatory side, the upgrading of norms for the financial industry, besides
promotinga solid foundation for future sustainability, will also have the reputational
benefits of attracting foreign investment to a sector which should be seen as well
managedwith high standards, measuredaccording to international comparators. On the
supervision side, the strengthening of analytical tools (credit and market risk models and
measurementof overall institutional risks) as well as enforcement mechanisms
(structured schedules of sanctions and fines according to levels of infractions) will
provide increased autonomy and direction to the supervisory agencies inorder to assess
and take early action against emerging risks in the financial system. Inthis regard, the

                                            - 39 -

operation also promotes policies which have an institutional strengthening impact and a
knowledge impact interms of advanced techniques to increase the quality o f supervision.
Interms of operational improvement, the new framework for the capital markets
modernizes and provides more legal certainty to many infrastructure and liquidity making
aspects of securities trading.

123.    Benefits interms of increasingaccess to credit inthe micro housing sector have
already been discussed and constitute a key socially oriented element o f the program.
Other benefits include the implied results from harmonizing the regulations andcapital
requirements across the banking, mutual funds andnon-bank (insurance, pensions)
industries with respect to asset risk and valuation, as well as overall solvency standards.
These reforms will add much transparency to the investment risks and associated costs of
each financial services provider, and permit a better assessment of investment choices
and opportunities by the common investor. The result will also be an improvement in
capital market dynamics and greater incentives for competitiveness andcost reduction.

124.    A key benefit based on the legacy of past financial crises will be the
rationalization of the State's involvement inthe financial system andthe reduction of
contingent liabilities through the divestment and/or asset sale of most remaining public
financial institutions. The potential for future State involvement will also be minimized
through the application of the new resolution framework inconjunction with deposit
insurance support, so as to maximize the transfer of balance sheets within the banking
system while minimizing new future fiscal outlays during such instances.

125.    Risks. The key risks which could impact on the success of the reform program
pertain to the effect of an unexpected economic andfiscal downturn, legislative risk, the
risk of an increase inguerrilla activity, and the risk of institutional follow through and
monitoring of the reforms. The macroeconomic risk i s not trivial and could have several
adverse implications particularly for the bankingsystem where certain segments such as
the mortgage lenders are still not `out of the woods' interms o f long term financial
sustainability. While the program has helped mitigate some of these institutions' risks
through the implementation o f appropriate interest rate and inflation hedging instruments,
these cannot fully protect against an already existing stock o f non performing loans
which are slowly recovering. A major reduction ineconomic growth could exacerbate
these problems andgenerate additional instability inthat sector which would be severely
disruptive and possibly lead to systemic contagion if not managed immediately with the
new bank resolution tools. A downturn scenario would also likely discourage much of
the financial services development and growth promoted by the reforms, such as inthe
securities, mutualfunds and insurance markets.

126.    Related to the macroeconomic risk would be a deterioration inthe Government's
fiscal position. This might require additional domestic indebtedness by the Government
with a largeinvestor contingent being the commercial bankingsector. An added
accumulation of government debt on banks' balance sheets would imply a large stock o f
bank assets in government securities which could signify a difficult to reverse
concentration risk. The reform program to a modest extent mitigates some of this risk
with the increased volume of short term debt issuance where nonbank investors such as
mutualfunds constitute alarge clientele, as well as the formal establishment of adebt
management policy makingcommittee which is charged with overseeing the inherent
risks and sustainability of the overall government debt program.

                                               - 40 -

127.     Another potential risk is the legislative process anduncertainty inthe full
implementation of the Securities Law. While this is always arisk with regard to
legislative initiatives, and couldbecome more significant interms of delays if the
Government effort to modify the Constitution's election term clausebecomes too drawn
out, this i s mitigatedby the fact that the Government undertook extensive consultation
with the financial industry to seek pre-agreement on the provisions inthe draft law,
before submitting it to the Congress for approval. Therefore, opposition generatedfrom
potential industry lobbyingefforts is not seen as highly likely. Inaddition, the Bank has
planned ongoing policy dialogue with the Government through mechanisms such as a
FIRSTGrant program, Analytical/Advisory work, andother interventions which relate to
capital markets reforms, thus allowing follow up on the implementation of the law.
Simultaneously, the Bank continues to work with the Government on the issuanceof new
regulations to ensure transparency inreporting on securities investment funds and other
securitiesmarket disclosure issues, thus permittingthe reform to be implemented and
move forward inparallel with the the legislative front. Such work would expect to be
acceleratedinthe event that the approval of the securities law suffered unanticipated
delays.

128.     The risk of an increase inguerilla activity would likely have similar effects as the
risk of economic downturn giventhis activity's effect inreducingprivate investment and
confidence inthe economy. While the current Government's policies would seemto
render this less likely, this could always changedue to factors not solely under
Government control, a change incurrent policy, or a different Administration. This risk,
therefore representsa conditional medium-termuncertainty.

129.     Finally, the risk of lack of institutional follow through and enforcement of the
reforms i s a risk factor in all sectoral adjustment reformprograms, especially when
legislation is particularly complex and implementation actions are slow incrystallizing.
Underthe program, however, the Colombian Government has already demonstrated
positive results through the regulatory operationalization of the legislative changesto the
bankinglaw, the modest yet steady progressinthe divestment of public banking
institutions and the faster than expectedharmonization of regulatory norms inthe capital
marketfunds industries. Inaddition, as Colombia has demonstratedregional leadership
inthe official development of latestriskmanagementtools andsupervisory proceduresto
be applied to the financial industry, it is deemedunlikely given this context of technical
expertise and institutional advancement, that the reforms would not be followed through
and applied as projected.

-41-    ANNEX 1

       -42-




b e
 m

         -43-




   .-
    3
    U




+

-44-




        I  S   c

        -45-




r- I

                                                 - 46 -




                      Letter of DevelopmentPolicy for the Financial Sector




                                                                           Bogotfi, August 18, 2004




Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.


Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,

         The Colombian Government i s continuing to pursue policies to promote the country's
recovery and economic growth, within the framework of structural reforms anchored infiscal
discipline.

         One aspect of these policies concems the financial sector and the ongoing commitment to
stabilize and strengthenit. The support of the World Bank, through the sectoral programs fo;r the
development of the financial, has been important inpromotingthe development of the financial
sector through stronger regulation, supervision and resolution mechanisms for institutions,
creation of new mechanismsfor housing finance and support for development of the securities
market and the public debt market.

         Inthis context we can state that, starting in2002, the financial sector has recovered
significantly compared with the difficult situation at the end of the 1990sand now the various
institutionsthat make upthe financial sector have lower levels of non performing loans, less
capital exposure and better profitability indicators. Inaddition, the recovery of the financial
sector has helped to revive other sectors of the economy, since the financial sector channels
resourcesto the real sector and i s the core of the payments system.

         These actions are, inturn, supporting other structural reforms to which the Government
attaches priority and which are ultimately aimed at creating a citizens' State. We know that many
of these activities require considerable efforts on the part of the Government, ifthe objectives are
to be achieved, and that such efforts arejustified becausethe quest for greater opportunities for
all Colombians i s the guarantee of a healthy economy.

         With the aim of continuing to promote the strengthening of the financial system and the
development of the capital market, the National Govemment requested assistanceand guidance
from the World Bank for a secondphase of the adjustment programfor the financial sector on
which the Govemment is working, and it i s grateful for the ongoing guidance and financial
support from the World Bank and for the prompt consideration by the Board of this new
Programmatic FinancialSector Adjustment Loan.

                                           - 47 -



       The Government of course stands ready to work with the Bank's technicalteams to draw
upfuture lendingprograms, as the reforms areconsolidated andfurther action is requiredinthis
sector.




Sincerely,


IoriginalsignedI


ALBERT0 CARRASQUILLA
Minister of Finance andPublic Credit


                        - 4 8 -




               REPUBLICOF COLOMBIA




        MINISTRY OFFINANCEAND PUBLIC CREDIT

          NATIONALPLANNINGDEPARTMENT




LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL SECTOR




                 BogotB,August 18,2004


                                                 - 49 -


I.MACROECONOMICSITUATION

CONTEXT

1. After experiencinga difficult periodof recessionin 1998-1999, the Colombianeconomy has
been recovering rapidly, as witnessedby the higher GDP growth rate andthe momentum inthe
private sector.

2. This process was assistedby the considerable success achieved inthe fiscal area. This
resulted in an improvement of financingterms and restored investor confidence.

MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCEAND PROSPECTS

3. During2003, economic growth acceleratedto 3.95 percent, compared with 1.6 percent in
2002. This growth i s more consistent with the potentialof the economy inthe longterm.

4. This level of growth was fostered to a large extent by the momentum inthe private sector.
Private spending increasedat a real rate of 5.83 percent, while investment and spending grew by
19.38 percent and2.05 percent respectively inreal terms. The upsurge indomestic investment
and the favorable external circumstancesbenefited all sectors of the economy, also promoting
employment and thus reducingthe unemployment rate (currently 14.8 percent). The investment
momentumand unemployment reduction led to an increase inproductive capacity.

5. The growth spurt did not exert excessivepressureeither on the goods market or on external
financing. Inthe case of the goods market, inflation was 6.5 percent (0.5 percent less than in
2002) and, as far as external financing i s concerned, the current account deficit was 1.8 percent of
GDP(the same as inthe preceding year). This indicates that the recovery processcan continue in
a sustainable manner.

6. The fiscal deficit dropped from 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to 2.7 percent of GDP in 2003 -in
other words, a reductionof one percentagepoint from one year to the next. These fiscal deficit
improvements were the result of the great effort made by all public sector bodies and primarily
the Central Government, which reduced its deficit by 0.7 percent. The fiscal adjustment made
resulted in an increasein government revenue of 6 percent inreal terms, while spending over
which the Government has more discretionary authority was reduced. For example, spending on
personnel expenses and overheads grew by only 0.6 percent and 2.5 percent inrealterms
respectively, which was much less than the growth inrevenue and GDP.

7. The positive results achieved by the fiscal policy adopted played a very important role inthe
improvement of macroeconomic equilibriumand the attainment of fiscal goals. It was thus
possible to honor the agreement with the IMFto reduce the consolidated public sector deficit to
2.7 percent of GDP. The GDP growth, the dynamics of the public sector primary balance and the
positive interest ratesresulting from the first two factors reducednet total debt from 54.6 percent
in2002 to 52.5 percent in2003.

8. The results obtained so far in2004 show that the favorable fiscal trends and economic
advances are being maintained. Inthe first quarter, the economy grew by 4.1 percent and it i s
expectedthat this trend will continue, with growth of 4 percent by the end of the year. It i s also
expectedthat inflation will continue to drop, descending to 5.5 percent.

                                                -50-

9. Colombia's external position remains solid: the current account result is being maintained and
international reservesreachedUS$11,587.8 million.

10. The fiscal deficit target agreedwith the IMFfor the first quarter of the year (0.5 percent) was
achieved. The Combined Public Sector deficit was 0.3 percent of GDP. This result reflects the
ongoing adjustment policy of the Central Govemment and the improvement inthe decentralized
public sector.

11. The 2004 fiscal deficit target of 2.5 percent of GDPmay be revisedupwards by 0.3 percent
of GDP, if government spending on priority investments i s included. Such spending i s
conditional on resourcesbeingprocured from the disposition of public assets duringthe year,
since these proceeds will be usedto finance additional investment.

12. For 2005, it i s planned to continue the public finance adjustment policy, keepingthe fiscal
deficit at 2.4 percent of GDP. However, the multi-year asset sale programwill continue and i s
expected to finance additional investment totaling up to 0.5 percent of GDP. As in 2004, this
investment i s contingent on obtainingresourcesfrom asset disposition.

STRUCTURAL REFORMS

13. The Government's programcontinues to be gearedto guaranteeing fiscal sustainability and
ultimately restoringsecurity, stimulatingeconomic growth and increasing social equity. The
measuresneededto achieve these objectives are therefore being pursued in an environment of
macroeconomic stability, supportedby prudent monetary policies and strengthening of the
financial system. At the same time, social welfare programs are being strengthened, education
and health coverage i s beingextended and the impact of public utilities rate increaseson the
poorest population groups is beingmitigated.

14. The Govemment is thus aware of the urgent needto press ahead with the plan of structural
reforms, designed to give continuity to the policy of gradual fiscal adjustment and to guarantee
the primary surpluses to make debt sustainable in the longterm.

15. Inthis context, the legislative agendais still focused on the main fiscal risk, which i s closely
related to the topic of pensions. The activities to achieve this control are designed to:

              J Generateincometo cover pressuresonpensionsinthenearfuture. Withthis
                  objective, tax reform i s being promoted to increaseincome.

              J Limitspendingpressures. Inthiscontext, itisplannedto introducechangesin
                  the pension systemto avoid future fiscal pressures.

STAND-BY ARRANGEMENT WITH THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND

16. Inthe context of its macroeconomic policy, the Colombian Government signed a Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) with the IMFinJanuary 2003, with the primary aim of reducing the fiscal
deficit. So far, the IMFhas completed the thirdreview of the programand has notedthat the
specified performance criteria have been met. For 2004, the Government plans to maintainthe
impetus of the economic reforms, which are designed to support 4 percent GDPgrowth, while the
inflation target has been set at 5.5 percent. Inaddition, it i s projectedthat the balance-of-
payments current account deficit will be 2.2 percent of GDP and that net intemational reserves
will increaseby US$700 million.

     I                                              - 51 -


11. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPORTPROGRAM

CONTEXT

17. Startingin2002, the financial sector made a significant recovery from the difficult situation
prevailing at the end of the 1990s. For example, during2003 credit institutions continued to
increasetheir loan portfolios, as they had been doing since 1nid-2002~; profitability levels were
similar to those prior to the 1998-99 crisis; solvency remained at adequate levels; and in general
the risksinherent inbankingdeclined. This positivetrend has intensified so far in2004, showing
that the system is in a situation of stability.

18. However, efforts are still neededto consolidate the results obtained to date. Accordingly, in
order to consolidate this performance and achieve greater asset and portfolio growth, the
Government i s continuing to promote activities designedto achieve these objectives.

PROGRAMOBJECTIVES

19. The objective of the SecondPhase of the Financial Sector Adjustment Programi s to assist
the Government of Colombia inthe financial sector adjustment process. Despitethe sector's
significant recovery of its health and sustainability, efforts are still neededto consolidate the
results obtained so far. It will also be necessaryto continue developinginstruments designed to
adapt Colombian financial legislationto market requirements and international standards, while
taking into account the reality and special features of Colombia. The Government also remains
committed to achieving appropriate integrationof the intermediatingbanking sector and the
securities market, inorder to guaranteefinancial market stability.

20. Inorder to achievethis objective, the Government has initiated action inthe areas of
strengthening of regulation, supervision and resolutionprocedures for institutions, creation of
mechanismsfor financing housingprograms and support for the development of the securities
market, the public debt market and the non-bankingsector, the latter being relatedto the
insurance industry, pensions and trusts. We are confident that these series of reforms will make it
possible to consolidate the financial sector andto adapt regulations to international standards.

PROGRAMCOMPONENTS

Imulementationof the Financial ReformLaw and effective bankingresolution

21. The issuanceof enablingregulations for the implementationof Law No. 795 of January 14,
2003, sponsoredby the National Government, will enforce many of the Law's provisions. This
Law introduced important changes to modernize and strengthen the financial system, as well as a
series of measuresto make the rules more flexible and introduce new instruments to foster public
confidence infinancial institutions.

22. An important element of Law No. 795 was the creation of mechanisms for solving structural
problems of financial institutions and facilitating the voluntary exit of such institutions from the
market, eliminating the risk of contagion and strengthening confidence inthe system. One such
mechanism i s the carve-out of assets and liabilities as a prerequisite for or consequenceof a take-
over. This allows the rapidtransfer of deposits from a troubled institution to other financial

'Thistrend  was seen in all types of credit with the exception of housing loans.

                                                  - 52 -

institutions and of assets to a trust vehicle. The Government recently issuedregulations to
implement this mechanism, establishing general guidelines.

23. Inaddition, Law No. 795 of 2003 entrustedto the Deposit Insurance Agency (FOGAFIN) the
responsibility for monitoring liquidators of both public and private financial institutions,
regardless of the type of liquidation arrangement involved. Accordingly and inthe performance
of this duty, FOGAFINconcluded the liquidationprocess of the INGBaringFinancial
Corporation andthe Sociedad Administradora de Fondos de Pensionesy CesantiasInvertir S.A.

24. Inaddition, regulations have been issuedfor the take-over of financial institutions and
changes have been introducedinthe regime governing the process of forced administrative
liquidation. With regardto take-overs, the regulations sought to clarify the effects of that
measureand to establish which take-overs are compulsory and which are optional, in order to
facilitate fulfillment of the social objective of the institution taken over and its reactivation. In
addition, the regulations specified the powers of the special agent appointed to conduct the take-
over and the manner in which he can be assistedby an advisory board, whose membership and
functions were described.

25. With regardto the arrangements applicable to the process of forced liquidation, the main
changes are designed to provide, firstly, tools to permit rapid andeffective conversion of the
assets under liquidation, bearingin mindthat they are the source of funds to pay claims and,
secondly, mechanisms for concluding liquidations as quickly as possible, through agreements
with creditors and contracts for administration or compulsory tendering for assets, following clear
and explicit rules.

26. The rationalization of State institutions, including those inthe financial sector, has also been
promoted under the Public Administration ReformProgram, encouraging the creation and
consolidation of an efficient State, which requires strict management of the use of public
resourcesinthe service of the citizens. Underlying this policy i s the divestment of shares held in
various public andprivate economic entities, keepingonly those entities neededinorder for the
State to performits social function.

27. Inpursuance of this policy of rationalizationof public banking, the following measureswere
adopted:

              J IndustrialDevelopment Institute(IFI):Underthe publicbankingpolicy, the
                  National Government ordered the liquidation of IFI. At the same time, it
                  transferred viable assets and liabilities to Bancoldex. Inaddition, through the
                  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Nationtook over foreign currency
                  liabilities.

              J Bancafk: FOGAFINembarkedonthe strategy ofprivatecapitalinvolvement,
                  opening a biddingprocessinOctober 2003, which consisted of two successive
                  and independent stages.

                  The first stage involvedcapitalization of the Bankby an investor or group of
                  investors, which would enable FOGAFIN to dismantle the guarantee capital
                  provided to the institution, without endangering its financial standing. The
                  secondstage allowed the disposition of FOGAFINshares to Bancafk, under the
                  procedure established for the purpose by Law No. 226 of 1995 and other

                                                    - 53 -

                   applicable rules, following adoption of the disposition programby the National
                   Government.

                   During the capitalization process, three potential investors were identified as
                   meeting the requirementsestablished inthe Regulations on Private Capital
                   Involvement. The biddingprocess was held on February 18,2004 but no bids
                   were submitted.

                   Inthis connection, it is impossible to know precisely why no capitalization
                   proposals were submitted. Possible causes identifiedare the institution's labor
                   costs, the size of the Bank and its large network of branches. Inview of this, it i s
                   planned to close approximately fifty branchesin the secondhalf of 2004, on the
                   basis of criteria of profitability, portfolio quality and commercial potential. In
                   addition, between January and May 2004, the staffing level was reducedby
                   approximately 218 persons, representing a cut of over 5 percent.

              J Reductionof Stateparticipationinpublic trust companies: Inthe thirdquarter of
                   2003, the merger of Fiduciariade Desarrollo Agropecuario S.A.(Fiduagraria
                   S.A.) and FiduciariaIndustrial S.A. (Fiduifi) was completed. On November 1,
                   2003, the public document on the absorption of Fiduifiby Fiduagraria S.A. (by
                   dissolution without liquidation) was executed.

                   The shares of FiduciariaFES S.A. owned by Fogafin were then offered for sale
                   inmid-2003 intwo stages: first to personscoveredby article 3 of Law No. 226 of
                   1995 and then to the general public through an auction. The shares were not
                   allocated at either of the two stages, since there were no interested buyers.
                   Fogafin i s studying other alternatives for disposing of the shares.

              J BancoGranahorrar: With support fromGrantNo. TF052531, astudy hasnow
                   beencommissioned to review Banco Granahorrar in order to identify its needs
                   and prospects inthe event that it were to be sold as a going concern. The
                   conclusions of this study will be the basis for the bank sale strategy inthe first
                   halfof 2005.

Strengthening of banking supervision

28. With regard to the focus of banking supervision, Colombia's Superintendency of Banks
(SBC) i s makingprogress in establishing a risk management systemfor the universe of
supervised entities, Le. credit institutions, pensionmanagement firms, insurance companies, trust
companies, exchangebanks, etc.

29. Progresshas beenmade both with regardto maintenance and improvement of a regulatory
framework that, while takinginto account the special features of the Colombian market and
internationaltrends, incorporates the relevant parameters for assessment, monitoring and
managementof the sector's main risks, and with regardto gradual improvement of the relevant
supervision practices.

30. Inthe first case, the Colombian supervisor endorses the basic premises of Base111. The SBC
understandsthat measurement of the risks inassets, liabilities and contingencies of financial
institutions i s a prerequisite for their business management and that constituting financial capital
(i.e. capital consistent with such risks)represents an essential safeguardto preserve the sector's

                                                  - 54 -

stability. Similarly, the supervisory authority i s very much aware of the stricter technical
requirements for supervision and of the institutional empowerment neededif supervised
institutions are to be requiredto make timely and sufficient corrections to those situations in
which financial capitaltends to be inadequateto meet their exposures.

31. Becauseof the special features of the Colombian financial system, the naturalconsiderations
concerning the competitive conditions of local financial groups, the characteristics of the
regulatory framework governingriskmanagementand the recognition of institutional
shortcomings with respect to some of the basic principles of effective bankingsupervision, it is
clear that the Basel I1proposal must be carefully evaluated in the light of the other priorities for
regulation andprudentialsupervision in Colombia.

32. The main way in which domestic prudentialregulationis developing along the lines of Basel
I1relatesto the introductionof technical criteriafor credit riskassessment and, onthis basis, the
design and implementation of a systemto manage such risk by the supervised institutions.
However, there are no plans inthe short term to translate changes inthe value of such risks
directly into changes in available capital (financial capital) inthe same direction; credit risks will
be covered by provisioning, reflectedinchanges inthe solvency ratio. Preliminary estimates
made by SBC indicate that implementationof Pillar Iinthe Colombian financial system would
meanincreasing the current solvency ratio by a factor rangingfrom 1.3 to 10.3, depending on the
portfolio rating (AA, A, BB, B and C) and on the confidence levels used inthe estimate.

33. The Colombian authorities have decided to postpone the operational risk measures until
furtherprogressis made inthe draftingof new guidelines for credit risk assessment and
management.

34. Although they correspond only partially to Pillar Iof Basel 11,the changes inthe Colombian
regulatory framework are moving in that direction.

35. With regardto Pillar 111, it i s noteworthy that the Colombian financial system produces and
disseminates, via various mediaincludingthe Web sites of the supervisor and of the main trade
associationsin the sector, regular andtimely information on the mainfinancial statements and
indicators of industry performance. It i s planned to make the additional information derivedfrom
the new systemof credit risk management an integral part of this reporting. However, the
disclosure of adequate and high-quality information, while necessary, i s not the only prerequisite
for market discipline. The ability of financial players-depositors and sector clients -to choose
institutionson the basis of quality does not apply to most users of the Colombian financial
system, partly because small depositors or users of the payments system cannot be expected to
make the same analysis and display the same behavior as professionalinvestors.

36. Accordingly, the responsibility of the supervisor assumes greater importanceinterms of
protectionof the system's clients and, of course, preservation of the sector's stability.
Implementation of Pillar 11, concerning the supervisor's ability to evaluate the suitability of credit
riskassessmentsandtheir managementby financial institutions andto requirea synchronized
ratio of risks to capital (in our case, portfolio provisions), representsa major challenge for the
Colombian supervisor, given the limitedtraining of supervisory staff and the administrativeand
budgetary restrictions on human resources management.

37. With these provisos, SBC i s continuing efforts to train its staff in the areas neededfor risk-
based supervision. Inaddition, the supervision handbook of the Credit Risk Management System
and rules for the evaluation of risk forecasting models are being drafted; these tools will facilitate

                                                - 55 -

the supervisionperformedby the institution. At the same time, SBC i s implementinga Guide to
unify its sanctions policy inthis area.

38. The supervision of financial risks ineconomies with financial groups naturally involves the
development of specific agendas for comprehensive andconsolidated supervision. This approach
not only involves the construction and adjustment of mappings and matrices between
shareholders and institutions as regardsto assets, but also requires the consolidation of their main
financial statements, construction of aggregatedindicators for financial analysis and assessment
and aggregation of the various risks concerned (solvency, market risks, liquidity risks, etc.). SBC
has worked on the adjustment of regulatory parametersfor these purposes andplans to form
groups of supervisors specializing inthe subject, depending on availability of resources.

Housing finance

39. Inthe area of housingand housing finance, new mechanisms have been designedto
counteract factors affecting demandfor credit and the risk incurred by credit institutions. This
was done within the framework of Law No. 546 of 1999, which introducedadjustments
representing a far-reaching change inthe housing finance structure andrequiredreorganization of
the sector and its regulations.

40. One of these adjustments concerns inflation hedging, introduced as a mechanism to enable
homeowners to make future mortgagepayments and the financial sector to accelerate the
disbursement of loans for housing finance in conditions of security and manageablerisk. At the
endof May 2004, 14,058 of the 40,000 mortgage holders identified underthis program had the
coverage, with disbursed loans amounting to COP$351,485.6 million.

41. Inaddition, work has continued on revision of the operating procedures of the Mortgage
StabilizationFund(FRECH), which was createdto cover the risk to mortgage lending institutions
causedby the discrepancy between the interest rate and inflation. Inthis connection, a study was
made to determine the suitability of the mechanismfor the needs of the players concerned, in an
attempt to guarantee the stability of the mortgage financial sector in the light of the existing
volatility intheir sources of funding. On the basis of this study, the Government enacteda decree
providing for a new procedure based on the use of option contracts.

42. Inorder to promote rural and urbandevelopment, the National Government authorized the
MunicipalFinancing Bank (FINDETER)to performrediscounting operations for the financing of
housing credit or microcredit operations involving the construction, remodeling or purchase of
low-income housing. An important feature of this type of credit i s that the loans can be eligible
for future portfolio securitization processes, provided that they meet certain uniformity criteria.
Supplementing these initiatives, the rules on securitizations have been updatedby the issuanceof
new rules concerning capital consumption for the various tranches under securitizations and
capital rules for proprietarypositions of securitization companies.

43. The NationalGovernment concluded an agreement with the financial sector whereby banking
establishments and financial cooperatives undertake to place a percentage of their gross portfolio
innew loans andor inpurchasesof low-income housing. Inaddition, inorder to cover the risks
stemming from these operations, the National Government i s providing guaranteesfor these loans
through the National GuaranteeFund, thus facilitating access to the resources of the financial
systemby low-income segments of the population.

                                                 - 56 -



Insurance sector development

44. Inthe insurance sector, at the initiative of the National Government, Law No. 795 of 2003
introduced a series of changes inthe legal structure governinginsurance activity. For example,
new regulatory powers were given to the National Government inmatters such as technical
reserves, adequatecapital, investment arrangements, assets required for the operation of the
various types of insurance andlimits on indebtednessof insurance institutions and investment
companies. Inaddition, it was clarified that solvency requirements will be determined on the
basis of the amount of the premiums or the averageloss claims, whichever i s the highest, while
the National Government has the power to determine the timing, form, risks and technical
elements of the factors determining this solvency.

45. Inexercise of this power, the Government established maximum rates chargeable for
compulsory insurancefor bodily harmcausedto persons in traffic accidents and the amount of
the contribution to the Solidarity and GuaranteeFund(FOSYGA). Subsequently, a decree was
enacted obliging companies authorized to operate inthis branch of insurance to issue policies
requested and to have a compensation mechanismto prevent rejections basedon vehicle category.

46. These reforms will help to make the sector more solid and competitive. Inthe mediumterm,
after review of the aspects incorporated ina draft decree concerning the implementation of
solvency rules for the various branchesof the insurance sector, the Government will promulgate
the relevant rules. The main aim of these regulatory adjustments is to harmonize the regulation
and supervision of the activity of the institutions supervised by the Superintendency of Banks,
including those inthe insurance sector. Inthis context, rules have also been put into effect
requiring investment managers such as insurers, pension managementfirms, trusts and mutual
funds to report and disclose marketrisks intheir portfolios. For the pensions sector, the
requirements for investments inforeign securities have been broadened in order to promote the
diversification of portfolios managedby these firms.

Capital market development

47. One of the most important aspects of this goal, to which the National Government has
committed itself, is the needto adapt the regulatory mechanism to new forms of trading and the
new risks involved, since the phenomenon of market globalization requires market regulation to
conform to international practices and trends and since information and communication skills and
new technologies have resulted ina dizzying expansion of securities markets all over the world.

48. Accordingly, the Government resumed its analysis of the draft legislation governing the
handling, use and investment of public resourcesthrough securities. Followingjoint efforts by
the various institutions involved inthe revision of the draft, a new version was producedthat will
give the Colombian securities market an appropriate and efficient regulatory framework to
provide higher growth levels, alternatives to traditional sources of corporate financing and, above
all, clear guidelines for all market players, with the necessarylegal security to win the support of
domestic andforeign investors andthe necessaryflexibility to permit adjustment to continual
market innovations.

49. The above-mentioned draft was submittedfor the consideration of the Honorable Congress of
the Republic incompliance with Colombian legal procedures. The Government will give the
necessary support to convert the draft into law so that the securities market will have a new
institutional framework that is efficient, complete and appropriate.

                                                 - 57 -



50. The Advisory Committee on Market PriceValuation i s continuingto review and adjust the
regulations on this subject in order to achieve standardsof good governance inthe unification of
valuation methodologies for public debt securities, external public debt, other public securities
instruments and private debt securities.

51. Capital rules for all collective investment schemes were also harmonized in order to avoid
regulatory arbitrage between funds managedby institutions under the supervision of SBC or the
Securities Superintendency (SV). Inorder to avoid price arbitrage in securities funds, new rules
were introduced to ensure that fund prices are adjusted to the value on the transaction date. In
addition, reporting i s requiredon the faithful, uniformand comparable disclosure of information
and of risks of the funds and collective investment schemes managedalso by institutions
supervised both by SV and by SBC.

Debt market development

52. The National Government's fiscal deficit reductionpolicy i s also designed to make the public
debt sustainable inthe long term. Inthis connection, the Ministry of Finance, acting through the
Office of Public Credit and the NationalTreasury, has devised a financing strategy supported by
development of the domestic capital marketand an active presenceboth on internationalcapital
markets and inthe multilateral bankingsystem.

53. Inrecent years, the financing needs associatedwith an increase inthe consolidated fiscal
deficit resulted in a considerable increaseinpublic debt as a percentage of GDP, which was about
55 percent in 2002. However, fiscal adjustment policies haltedthis upward trend, reducingthe
figure to 52 percent in2003. Inthis connection, inthe medium-term fiscal framework established
by the Government, this trend will continue and the figure will be less than 40 percent in 2015.

54. The debt strategy involves diversification of financing sources and emphasizes the
importance of a solid and deep domestic market to avoid vulnerability to external shocks. Inthis
regard, efforts are continuing to consolidate the domestic public debt market by strengtheningthe
treasury bills market inthe short-term segment, which has achieved considerable liquidity and
depth.

55. Colombia will maintain its presence on internationalcapital markets by issuingbonds and
takingsyndicated loans. The goal is also to strengthen relations with multilateral banks, which
currently account for almost 20 percent of the total debt.

56. As a result of this policy, the relative share of the internal andexternal debt (currently 52 and
48 percent respectively) will gradually shift so that the internal debt will account for 60 percent
and the external debt for 40 percent by 2010.

57. Lastly, the Government plans to continue an active policy of debt management, conducting
operations to improve the debt profile. For this purpose, it created an official Public Debt
Committee with strategic responsibilities defined by decree.

111. CONCLUSIONS

58. Many of the measuresand policies described inthis document have been developed within
the framework of the SecondProgrammatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, to be financed
with World Bank resources. Satisfactory progress has been made and economic and social

                                               - 58 -


conditions are ripe for continuation of the reforms neededin order to give the intermediated and
non-intermediated capital market, stability andclear rules, for the benefit of all market players.

59. Thus the Government is committed to the programoutlined inthis document and welcomes
the guidance and financial support of the World Bankin these processes. The Government would
be grateful for prompt consideration by the Boardof the new programmatic financial sector
adjustment loan and stands ready to work with the Bank's technicalteams to draw up future
lending programs as the adjustments are consolidated and further action i s requiredinthe
financial sector.




                    / Next Section-Original Letter Signed (Spanishversion) /

                                                      - 59 -




                         Cartade Politicade Desarrollopara el sector Financiero


                                                                                   Bogota, Agosto 18de 2004


Seiior
James D. Wolfensohn
Presidente
BancoMundial
Washington, DC




Estimado SeiiorWolfensohn:

El Gobierno colombiano continua desarrollando politicas que permitan la recuperacion y crecimiento
economicodel pais,en el marcode las reformas estructuralesancladasen la disciplinafiscal.

Uno de 10s aspectos de esta politica, esta relacionada con el sector financiero y el compromiso de continuar
promoviendo su estabilidad y fortalecimiento. El apoyo del Banco Mundial a traves de 10s programas
sectoriales de Desarrollo del Sistema Financiero ha sido importante para la promocion del desarrollo del
sistema financiero a traves del fortalecimiento de la regulacion, supervision y esquemas de resolucion de
entidades; a traves de la creacion de nuevos mecanismos para la financiacion de vivienda; y mediante el
apoyo al desarrollo del mercadode valoresy de deuda publica.

De esta manera, podemos mencionar que a partir del aiio 2002, el sector financiero ha presentado una
recuperacion significativafrente a la dificil situacionpresentadaa finales de la decada del 90 y, hoy por hoy,
las distintas entidades que conforman el sector financiero presentan menores niveles de cartera vencida,
menor exposicion patrimonial y mejores indicadores de rentabilidad. Ademas, la recuperacion del sector
financiero ha contribuido a la reactivacion de 10s diversos sectores de la economia por cuanto el sector
financieroes canalizador de recursoshaciael sectorproductivoy eje del sistema de pagos

Estas acciones van en la direccionde apoyar otras reformas estructuralesprioritariasparael Gobiernoy cuyo
fin ultimoes la construccion de un Estado Comunitario. Sabemos que la implementacionde muchas de estas
acciones implica esfuerzos importantes por parte del Gobiernopara el logro de sus objetivosque se justifican
en la medida en que la busqueda de mejoresoportunidadesparatodos 10s colombianoses la garantia de una
economiasana.

Con el proposito de continuar promoviendo el fortalecimiento del sistema financiero y el desarrollo del
mercado de capitales, el Gobierno Nacionalsolicit6 al Banco Mundial la estructuraciony el acompaiamiento
para el desarrollo de una segunda fase del programa de ajuste para el sector financiero, en el cual el
Gobierno esta trabajando y agradece el permanenteacompaiamiento y apoyofinancierodel BancoMundialy
la pronta consideracion por parte del Directorio del Banco de este Nuevo Credit0 Programaticode Ajuste al
Sector Financiero.

                                                   -  60  -


Sobra anotar que el Gobiernoesta a disposicionde 10s equipos tecnicos del Banco para definirconjuntamente
programasfuturos de credit0 en la medida en que se consoliden 10s ajustes y se requieran nuevas acciones
en este sector.


Cordialmente,




ivlinistrode Hacienday Credit0 Publico

                           - 61 -




                  REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA




         MlNlSTERlODE HACIENDA Y CREDIT0 PUBLICO
         DEPARTAMENTO NACIONALDE PLANEACION




CARTA DE POLlTlCA DE DESARROLLOPARA EL SECTOR FINANCIER0




                 Bogota, 18de agosto de 2004.


                                                      - 62 -




1.       SITUACION MACROECON~MICA


CONTEXT0

1.     Luego de atravesar un duro period0 de recesion en 10s aAos 1998-1999, la economia colombiana ha
venido experimentando un acelerado proceso de recuperacion que se refleja en el incremento de la tasa de
crecimiento del producto interno brutoy en la dinamicadel sector privado.

2.     Este proceso ha estado retroalimentado por 10s importantes logros obtenidos en materiafiscal. Lo que
ha redundado en el mejoramiento de las condiciones financieras y ha devuelto la confianza a 10s
inversionistas.


DESEMPENO MACROECONOMIC0Y PERSPECTIVAS

3.     Durante el 2003 se presento una aceleracion en el crecimientode la economia que paso de 1.6% en el
2002 a 3.95% en el 2003. Dicho crecimientoes mas consistentecon el potencial de la economia en el largo
plazo.

4.     Este nivel de crecimiento estuvo jalonado en gran parte por la dinamica del sector privado. El gasto
privado crecio a una tasa de 5.83% real, mientras que la inversion y el gasto crecieron 19.38% y 2.05% en
terminos reales respectivamente. La creciente actividad que presento la inversion domestica y la buena
coyuntura externa beneficiaron a todos 10s sectores de la economia, favoreciendo tambien la dinamica del
empleo y por ende la reduccion de la tasa de desempleo que ya se ubica en el 14.8%. La dinamica de la
inversiony la reducciondel desempleo influyeronen un aumento de la capacidad productiva.

5.     La aceleracion en el crecimiento no ha representadopresiones excesivas ni en el mercadode bienes ni
en el financiamiento externo. En el cas0 del mercado de bienes la inflacion se ubico en 6.5% reduciendose
0.5% frente a12002 y por el lado del financiamientoexterno el deficit de la cuenta corriente se ubico en 1.8%
del PIB manteniendo el mismo nivel del aAo anterior. Estos factores hacen prever que el proceso de
reactivacionpuedecontinuarde manerasostenible.

6.     El deficit fiscal paso de 3.7% del PIB en el 2002 a 2.7% del PIB en el 2003, es decir, que se redujo en
un punto porcentual de un aAo a otro. Estos resultadosen materia de deficit fiscal han sido productodel gran
esfuerzo realizado por todos 10s entes del sector publico dentro de 10s cuales se destaca el Gobierno
Nacional, el cual redujo su deficit en 0.7%. El ajuste fiscal implementado, logro que el Gobierno aumentara
sus ingresos en 6 puntos reales, mientras reducia 10s gastos sobre 10s que tiene un mayor grado de
discrecionalidad. Asi, 10s gastos de servicios personalesy 10s gastos generales tan solo crecieron al 0.6% y
al2.5% reales respectivamente,tasas muy inferioresal crecimiento de 10s ingresos y del PIB.

7.     Los resultadospositivos fruto de la politica fiscal aplicada, jugaron un papel muy importanteen el logro
de un mejor equilibrio macroeconomicoy el cumplimiento de las metas fiscales. De este modo fue posible
cumplir el acuerdo con el FMI de reducir el deficit del sector publico consolidado al alcanzar un nivel de 2.7%
del PIB. El incrementodel PIB, la dinamicadel balanceprimario del sector publico y el positivo resultadode la
tasas de interes como consecuencia de 10s dos factores anteriores, llevaron a la reduccion de la deuda total
netaque paso de 54.6% en el 2002 a 52.5% en el 2003.

                                                      - 63 -




8.      Los resultados obtenidos en Io que va corrido del aRo 2004, muestran que se mantienen las buenas
tendencias fiscales y de actividad economica. En el primer trimestre la economia alcanzo un crecimiento del
4.1% y se espera que esta tendencia se consolide, alcanzando un crecimiento del 4% al final del aiio. Asi
mismo, se espera que la inflacion continuesu tendencia decreciente alcanzando un nivel de 5.5%.

9.      En el frente extern0 se sigue teniendo una posicionsolida que ha permitidomantenerel resultado de la
cuenta corriente e incrementar el acewo de resewas internacionalesque ha llegado a $ 11.587,8 millones de
dolares.

10.     Se cumplio la meta de deficit fiscal pactada con el FMI para el primer trimestre del aRo que era de
0.5%. El deficit del Sector PublicoConsolidadofue del 0,3% del PIB. Este resultadorefleja la continuacionde
la politica de ajuste en el Gobierno NacionalCentraly una mejoria en el sector publicodescentralizado.

11,     La meta de deficit fiscal que para el 2004 es de 2.5% del PIB, puede ser revisadaal aka hasta en 0.3%
del PIB si se incluye gasto en inversionesprioritarias del Gobierno. Dicho gasto es condicionala la obtencion
de recursos por la enajenacion de activos publicos durante el aiio, dado que dichos recursos tienen como
objetofinanciar la inversionadicional.

12.     Para 2005 se espera continuar con la politica de ajuste de las finanzas publicas, manteniendoel deficit
fiscal en un nivel de 2.4% del PIB. Sin embargo, continuando el programa plurianual de venta de activos, se
espera financiar inversion adicional por un monto de hasta 0.5% del PIB. AI igual que en el 2004, esta
inversiones contingentea la obtencion de recursospor enajenacionde activos.


REFORMASESTRUCTURALES

13.     El programa de Gobierno continua orientado a garantizar la sostenibilidadfiscal y en ultima instancia a
recobrar la seguridad, recuperar el crecimiento economico y aumentar la equidad social.           Por ello se
continuan implementando las medidas requeridas para que estos objetivos Sean alcanzados dentro de un
ambiente de estabilidad macroeconomica,apoyado por politicas monetarias prudentesy el fortalecimientodel
sistema financiero, a la vez que se fortalecen 10s programas de asistencia social, se aumenta la cobertura en
educacion y salud y se mitigael impact0 de 10s aumentos en las tarifas de servicios publicos sobre 10sgrupos
mas pobres de la poblacion.

14.    Asi, el Gobierno es consciente de la urgente necesidad de continuar con el plan de reformas
estructurales, el cual pretende dar continuidad a la politica de ajuste fiscal gradual y garantizar que se
obtengan 10s superavit primariosque hagansosteniblela deuda en el largo plazo.

15.     En este contexto, la agenda legislativa persigue atacar el principal riesgo fiscal el cual esta
estrechamente relacionado con el tema pensional. Las actividades tendientes a realizar este control estan
dirigidas a:

        J      Generar ingresos que cubran las presiones sobre el rubro de pensiones en el futuro proximo.
               Paraesto se impulsa una reformatributaria que amplie 10s ingresoscon dicho proposito.

        J      Acotar las presiones de gasto. En este contexto se pretende realizar modificacionesal regimen
               pensionalpara evitar presionesfiscales futuras.

                                                     - 64 -




PROGRAMA STANDBY CON EL FOND0 MONETARIOINTERNACIONAL

16.        Dentrodel marco de la politicamacroeconomica, el Gobierno colombianofirm6 en enero de 2003 un
acuerdoStand-By (SBA)con el FMI cuyo objetivoprincipales la reduccion del deficitfiscal. A la fecha, el FMI
ha completado la tercera revision del programa y se ha destacado el cumplimiento de 10s criterios de
desempeiio previstos en el mismo. Para el aiio 2004 el Gobierno se propone mantener el impulso de las
reformas economicasque estan orientadas a respaldar un crecimientodel PIB de 4%, en tanto la meta de
inflacion se ha fijado en 5.5%. Ademas, se proyecta que el deficit de la cuenta corriente de la balanza de
pagoslleguea 2.2% del PIBy que las reservas internacionales netas se incrementen en US$700 millones.


II.        EL PROGRAMADE APOYO AL SECTOR FINANCIER0


CONTEXT0

17.        A partir del aiio 2002 el sector financiero ha presentado una recuperacion significativafrente a la
dificil situacion presentada a finales de la decada del 90. Asi, durante el aAo 2003 las entidades de credito
siguieron incrementando su cartera de credito, tal como Io venian haciendo desde medidos del 20021; 10s
nivelesde rentabilidadfueronacordes con periodospreviosa la crisis de 1998-99; la relacionde solvenciase
mantuvo en niveles adecuados; y, en general, 10s riesgos inherentes al negocio financiero han disminuido.
Estatendenciapositivase ha acentuado en Io que va corrido del aAo 2004, Io que pone de manifiestoque el
sistemase encuentraen situacion de estabilidad.

18.        Sin embargo, a h se requieren esfuerzos para consolidar 10s resultados hasta ahora obtenidos. Por
ello, y con el fin de consolidar este desempeAo y alcanzar mejores niveles de crecimientode 10s activos y la
cartera,el Gobierno continua promoviendo accionestendientesa alcanzar estosobjetivos.


OBJETIVOS DEL PROGRAMA

19.        La Segunda Fase del Programa de Ajuste al Sector Financier0tiene como objetivo acompaiiar el
Gobierno de Colombia en el proceso de ajuste del sector financiero. Si bien, el sector presenta una
recuperacion significativa de su salud y sostenibilidad, aun se requieren esfuerzos para consolidar 10s
resultados hasta ahora obtenidos. Igualmente,es necesariocontinuar con el desarrollo de 10s instrumentos
que propenden por ajustar la legislacion financiera colombiana a las exigencias del mercado y a 10s
estandares internacionales, sin desconocer la realidad y las particularidades del pais. El Gobierno sigue
igualmentecomprometidocon la integracionadecuadaentre el sector bancario intermediadoy el mercado de
valores, a fin de garantizar la estabilidaddel mercadofinanciero.

20.        Para cumplir con este objetivo, el Gobierno ha puesto en marcha acciones relacionadascon las
areas de fortalecimiento de la regulacion,supervision y esquemas de resolucion de entidades, creacion de
mecanismos para la financiacionde programasde vivienda y apoyo al desarrollodel mercado de valores, de
deuda publicay del sector no bancario, estas ultimas relacionadascon la industria de seguros, pensionesy
fideicomisos. Confiamosen que este conjunto de reformaspermitaconsolidarel sector financieroy ajustar la
normatividada 10sestandaresinternacionales.


1 Estecomportamientose evidencio en todas las modalidadesde credito, con excepcion del creditode vivienda.

                                                     - 65 -




COMPONENTES DEL PROGRAMA


Implementacionde la Lev de Reforma Financierav efectivaresolucionbancaria

21.       La Ley 795 del 14 de enero de 2003, que promovio el Gobierno Nacional,ha surtido su proceso de
reglamentacion para darle operatividad a muchos de 10s aspectoscontenidosen la misma. Esta Ley incluyo
cambios importantespara la modernizacion y fortalecimiento del sistemafinanciero asi como un conjunto de
medidas para flexibilizar la normatividad e introducir nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza del
publico en las entidadesfinancieras.

22.       Un tema importante que se desarrollo dentro de la Ley 795 fue la introduccionde mecanismos para
resolver problemas estructuralesde entidades financieras o facilitar la salida voluntaria del mercado de estas
instituciones, evitando el riesgo de contagio y fortaleciendola confianza en el sistema. Una de estas figuras
fue la exclusion de activos y pasivoscomo medida previaa la toma de posesion o como consecuencia de la
misma. Esta figura permite transferir rapidamente 10s depositos de una institucion en problemas a otras
instituciones financierasasicomo 10s activos a un patrimonio autonomo.Recientementeel Gobierno Nacional
reglamentoesta figura, determinando 10slineamientosgenerales de la misma.

23.       Por otro lado, la Ley 795 de 2003 centro en el Fondo de Garantias de lnstituciones Financieras la
competencia para realizar el seguimiento a 10s liquidadoresde las entidadesfinancierastanto publicascomo
privadas, independientemente del tipo de modalidadde liquidacionde que se trate. Conforme a Io anterior y
en desarrollo de estafuncion, FOGAFIN ha concluidoel procesode liquidacionde la Corporacion Financiera
ING Baringy de la Sociedad Administradora de Fondosde Pensionesy Cesantias lnvertirS.A.

24.       De otra parte, se ha reglamentado el proceso de toma de posesionde entidadesfinancierasy se ha
modificado el regimen que regula el proceso de Iiquidacion forzosa administrativa. Con respecto a la
reglamentacion de la toma de posesion,se busco precisar 10s efectos de dicha medida y establecer cuales
son de caracter obligatorioy cualesfacultativos,ello con el fin de facilitar el desarrollo del objeto social de la
entidad interveniday su reactivacion. Adicional a Io anterior, se dejaronestablecidaslasfacultadespropiasdel
agente especial designado para desarrollar la medida y la forma como el mismo puede contar con la
colaboracion de unajunta asesora, respectode la cual se definieronsu conformaciony funciones.

25.       En cuanto a la modificaciondel regimen aplicable al proceso de liquidacionforzosa, 10s principales
cambios estan dirigidos a brindar herramientas que permitan, de una parte, la realizacionrapiday efectiva de
10s activos de la liquidacion, si se tiene en cuenta que 10s mismosson la fuente de pago de las acreencias a
cargo de la Iiquidaciony, de otra, a brindar mecanismos que permitanconcluir 10s procesosliquidatoriosen el
menor tiempo posible, via la celebracion de acuerdos con 10s acreedores, la celebracion de contratos de
administraciono la adjudicacion forzosade activos, bajo reglasclarasy expresamenteseRaladas.

26.       Por otro lado, y en desarrollodel programade Renovacionde la AdministracionPublica, a travesdel
cual se adelanta la creaciony consolidacionde un Estado gerencial, que presupone una gestionausteraen el
manejo de 10s recursos publicosy al servicio del ciudadano, se ha venido adelantando la racionalizacionde
entidades estatales, incluidas las del sector financiero. El espiritu de esta politica es enajenar las
participaciones accionarias que se tengan en diferentes entes economicos publicosy privados, conservando
exclusivamenteaquellas entidadesnecesarias para que el Estadocumpla con su funcionsocial.

                                                 - 66 -




27.    En cumplimientode esta politica de racionalizacionde la banca publica, se realizaron 10s siguientes
avances:

     J    IFI: En el marco de la politica de banca publica, el Gobierno Nacional ordeno la liquidacion del
          IFI. A la par de realizoel procesode cesion de activos y pasivosviables a Bancoldex. Ademas,
          la Nacion asumio a traves del Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico las obligaciones en
          monedaextranjera.

     J    Bancafe: FOGAFiN inicio la ejecucion de la estrategia de vinculacion de capital privado, con la
          apertura de la Sala de lnformacion en el mes de octubre de 2003, la cual comprendio dos
          procesos sucesivose independientesentre si.

          El primer0tendiente a la capitalizacionen dinero del Banco por parte de un inversionistao grupo
          de ellos, que le permitiera a Fogafin desmontar el capital garantia proporcionado a dicha
          entidad, sin que se ponga en riesgo la solvencia patrimonialde este. El segundo, posibilitando la
          enajenacion de las acciones de FOGAFIN en Bancafe, siguiendo el procedimiento establecido
          para el efecto por la Ley 226 de 1995 y demas normas aplicables, previa la adopcion del
          programade enajenacion por parte del Gobierno Nacional.

           En desarrollo del proceso de capitalizacion,tres potenciales inversionistas accedieron a la Sala
          de lnformacion antes referida, previo cumplimiento de 10s requisitos establecidos en el
           Reglamento de Vinculacion de Capital Privado. El 18 de febrero de 2004 se llevo a cab0 la
          audiencia de adjudicacionper0 no se presentaronofertas.

          AI respecto, no es posible determinar con certeza las razones por las cuales no se presentaron
          propuestas de capitalizacion. Se han percibido como posibles causas, la carga laboral de la
          entidad, el tamaAo del Banco y su elevada red de oficinas. Trabajando bajo estos lineamientos,
          se tiene proyectado el cierre de aproximadamente cincuenta oficinas para el segundo semestre
          de 2004, fundamentadoen criterios de rentabilidad, calidad de la cartera y potencial comercial.
          Ademas, entre enero y mayo de 2004 se redujo la planta de personal en aproximadamente218
          personas, Io cual representauna disminucion de mas del 5% de la planta.

     J    Reduccion de la participacion de Estado en sociedades fiduciarias publicas: En el tercer
          trimestre de 2003 se consolido la fusion de la sociedad Fiduciaria de Desarrollo Agropecuario
          S.A. Fiduagraria S.A. y de la sociedad Fiduciaria Industrial S.A. Fiduifi. El 1" de noviembre de
          2003 fue protocolizada la escritura publica mediante la cual FiduagrariaS.A absorbio a Fiduifi,
          esta ultima mediantedisolucionsin liquidacion.

           Por su parte, las acciones de Fiduciaria FES S.A. de propiedad de Fogafinfueron ofrecidas en
          venta a mediados del aAo 2003 en dos fases: en una primera fase, a las personas de que trata
          el articulo3" de la Ley 226 de 1995 y, en una segunda fase, al publico en general por conduct0
          del martillode bolsa. En ningunade las dos fases se efectuaron adjudicacionesde las acciones,
          en la medida en que no se presentaron personas interesadas en adquirirlas. Fogafin viene
          adelantandoel estudio de nuevas alternativas para lograr la enajenacion de dichas acciones.

     J    Banco Granahorrar: Actualmente y con el apoyo del Grant No. TF052531 se ha contratado un
          estudio que busca desarrollar un diagnostic0 del Banco Granahorrar, con el fin de estudiar sus
          necesidades y perspectivas frente a un proceso de venta como ente en marcha. Las

                                                    - 67 -



              conclusionesde este estudio serviran de lineamientos para iniciar la ejecucion de la estrategia
              de ventadel Bancoen el primer semestre de 2005.


Fortalecimientode lasupervision bancaria

28.      En relacion con el enfoque de la supervisionfinanciera, la Superintendencia Bancariade Colombia
(en adelante SBC) continlja avanzando sobre la puesta en marcha de un sistema de administracion de
riesgos para el universo de entidades vigiladas, esto es, establecimientos de credito, entidades
administradorasde fondosde pensiones y cesantias,compaiiias de seguros, sociedades fiduciarias,casas de
cambio,etc.

29.      Los avances al respecto involucran tanto el mantenimientoy adecuacion de un marco normativoque,
teniendo en cuenta las particularidades del mercado colombiano y las tendencias internacionales,incorpora
10s parametrospertinentesde medicion, seguimientoy administracionde 10s principales riesgos del sector,
como la adecuacionpaulatinade las practicasde supervisioncorrespondientes.

30.      En el primer caso, el supervisor colombianocomparte las premisas basicas de Basilea II. La SBC
entiendeque la medicion de 10s riesgos incorporadosen 10s activos, pasivos y contingenciasde las entidades
financierasson una condicion necesariapara la administracionde tal negocio y que la constituciondel capital
economico, esto es, aquel consistente con dichos riesgos, representa una salvaguarda esencial frente a la
preservacion de la estabilidad sectorial. De igual manera, la autoridad de supervisioncuenta con un claro
discernimiento sobre las mayores exigencias tecnicas para la supervision y sobre el empoderamiento
institucionalnecesario para exigir de las entidadesvigiladas una correccionoportuna y suficientede aquellas
situacionesen las que el capitaleconomico tienda a ser deficitariofrente a las exposiciones asumidas por las
entidades vigiladas.

31,      Las particularidades del sistema financiero colombiano, las naturales consideraciones sobre las
condicionescompetitivas de 10s grupos financieroslocales, las caracteristicasdel marco normativovigenteen
materia de administracion del riesgo y el reconocimiento de deficiencias institucionales en relacion con
algunos de 10s principios basicos para una supervisionbancariaefEfectiva, imponen, como es apenas Iogico,
una evaluacion cuidadosa de dicha propuesta frente a las demas prioridades en materia de regulacion y
supervisionprudencialen el cas0colombiano.

32.      El principal desarrollo corriente de la regulacion prudencial domestica en la direccion de Basilea II
tiene que ver con la introduccion de criteriostecnicos en la medicion del riesgocrediticioy, con base en ello,
con el diseiio y puesta en marcha de un sistema de administracion del mismo por parte de las entidades
vigiladas. Sin embargo, no esta previsto,en el corto plazo, que movimientosen el valor de estos riesgos se
traduzcan directamente en movimientos, en igual sentido, del capital disponible (capital economico); 10s

de la relacion de solvencia .Las estimaciones preliminaresrealizadaspor la SBC indicanque la aplicaciondel
riesgos crediticiosseran cubiertos mediante la constitucionde provisiones, Io que se traduce en movimientos

Pilar 1 en el sistema financiero colombiano implicariauna multiplicacionde la relacionde solvenciaactual en
un rango que va de 1.3a 10.3 veces, dependiendo de la calificacionde la cartera ( AA, A, BB, B y C) y de 10s
nivelesde confianza empleadosen la estimacion.

33.      Por otra parte, las autoridades colombianashan decidido posponerlas medidas en materiade riesgo
operacionalhasta tanto no se avance mas en la instrumentacionde las nuevasdirectricespara la medicion y
administracion del riesgocrediticio.

                                                    - 68 -




34.      A pesar de su caracter parcial en relacion con el Pilar I de Basilea II, 10s cambios en el marco
normativo colombiano,apuntan en esa direccion.

35.      En relacion con el Pilar Ill,es importante mencionarque el sistema financiero colombiano produce y
difunde, a traves de diversos mediosque incluyenlas paginasweb del supervisory de 10sprincipalesgremios
del sector, informacion periodica 'y oportuna sobre 10s principales estados financieros e indicadores del
comportamiento de la industria. Esta previsto que la informacion adicional derivada del nuevo sistema de
administraciondel riesgo crediticio sea parte integralde ese conjunto de informes. Sin embargo, la revelacion
de informacionsuficiente y de calidad es condicion necesaria per0 no suficiente de la disciplina de mercado.
La capacidad de 10s agentes economicos-ahorradores y clientes del sector- para seleccionar a las entidades
en funcion de su calidad no se predica de la mayoriade 10s usuariosdel sistema financiero colombiano, entre
otras razones, porque a 10s pequefios ahorradores o usuariosdel sistema de pagos no se les puede exigir el
analisis y comportamientopropiosde un inversionistaprofesional.

36.      En este sentido, la responsabilidad del supervisor cobra una mayor importancia en terminos de la
proteccion de 10s clientes del sistema y, por supuesto, de la preservacion de la estabilidad sectorial. El
cumplimiento del Pilar 11, esto es, la adecuacion del supervisor para evaluar la idoneidad de las mediciones
del riesgo crediticio y su administracion por parte de las entidades financieras y para exigir una relacion
sincronizadaentre el riesgo asumido y el capital (en nuestro caso, las provisiones de cartera), representa un
reto de magnitudes importantes para el supervisor colombiano, dadas las limitaciones en la formacion del
personalsupervisor y sus restricciones administrativasy presupuestalespara la gestion del recurso humano.

37.      Con estas condiciones, la SBC continua en el esfuerzo de entrenar a sus funcionarios en aquellas
materias necesarias para el desarrollo de una supervision basada en riesgos. Adicionalmente, se encuentra
elaborando el manual de supervision SARC y la definicion del aplicativo para la evaluacion de 10s modelos de
prediccion de riesgo, herramientas que facilitaran el trabajo de supervision adelantado por la institucion.
Paralelamente,la SBC esta implementando una Guia sanctionatoriapara unificar la politica en esta materiaal
interiorde la SBC.

38.      Como es natural, la supervision de 10s riesgos financieros en economias con grupos economicos
implica el desarrollo de agendas de trabajo especificas para la supervision comprensiva y consolidada. Este
enfoque no solo involucra la construccion y ajuste de las mallas y matrices entre accionistas y entidades
relacionadas patrimonialmente, sin0 que requiere de la consolidacion de sus principales estados financieros,
de la construccion de indicadoresagregados para el analisis financiero y de la medicion y agregacion de 10s
diversos riesgos correspondientes (solvencia, riesgos de mercado, riesgos de liquidez, etc.). La SBC se ha
ocupado de la adecuacionde 10s parametrosnormativos paratales efectos y preve la conformacionde grupos
de supervisoresespecializadosen la materia, dependiendode sus disponibilidades de recursos.


Financiacionde vivienda.

39.      En el tema de vivienday su financiacion, se han disefiado nuevos mecanismos para contrarrestar10s
factores que afectan la demanda de credit0 y el riesgo en que incurren las entidades crediticias. Lo anterior,
en el marco de la Ley 546 de 1999 que introdujo ajustes que significaron una profunda modificacion a la
estructura de financiacion de vivienda e implicaronel reordenamientodel negocio y de su regulacion.

40.      Uno de estos esquemas es la cobertura contra la inflacion creado con la finalidad de implementar un
mecanismoque le permitaa 10s usuariosde vivienda asegurar 10s flujos futuros de sus creditos hipotecariosy
al sectorfinanciero'acelerarel procesode desembolsos de creditos para financiacion de vivienda dentro de un

                                                    - 69 -



marco de seguridady riesgo manejable. AI cierre de mayo de 2004, 10s deudores hipotecariosbeneficiados
con la coberturasumaron 14.058, de 10s 40.000 designadosparaeste programa,con creditosdesembolsados
que asciendena un monto de $351.485.6 millones

41.       Igualmente, se ha continuado revisando el esquema de operacion del Fondo de Reserva para la
Estabilizacion de la Cartera Hipotecaria - FRECH, mecanismo creado para cubrir el riesgo de 10s
establecimientosde credito hipotecario del diferencial entre la tasa de interes y la inflacion. En este contexto,
se adelanto un estudio para determinar la viabilidad del mecanismo a las necesidades de 10s agentes
involucrados, buscando garantizar la estabilidad del sector financiero hipotecario dada la volatilidadexistente
en sus fuentes de fondeo. Con base en este estudio, el Gobierno expidioun decreto reglamentando un nuevo
esquema que se basa en la utilizacionde contratos de opcion.

42.       Por otro lado, y con el fin de promoverel desarrollo regionaly urbano, el GobiernoNacional autorizo
a la Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial, FINDETER, celebrar operaciones de redescuento dirigidas a la
financiacionde operacionesde creditoo microcredito inmobiliariocuyo fin sea la construccion,remodelaciono
adquisicionde vivienda de interessocial. Uncomponente importantede esta modalidadde credito es que 10s
mismos puedenser sujetos de procesosfuturos de titularizacionde cartera, siempre que 10s mismos cumplan
con condicionesde homogeneidad. Complementandoestas iniciativas, la normativasobre titularizacionesse
ha actualizadocon la emision de nuevas normas en relacion con consumos de capital para 10s diferentes
tramos de valores en procesos de titularizacion, y normas de capital para posiciones propias de firmas
titularizadoras.

43.       Ademas, el Gobierno Nacional suscribio con el sector financiero un acuerdo mediante el cual 10s
establecimientosbancarios y las cooperativas financieras se comprometen a colocar un porcentaje de su
cartera bruta en nuevos creditosylo en adquisicionde viviendade interessocial. Igualmente,y con el fin de
cubrir 10s riesgos derivados de estas operaciones, el Gobierno Nacional otorga garantias a estos creditos a
traves del Fondo Nacional de Garantias,facilitandode esta forma el acceso a recursosdel sistemafinanciero
a segmentos de la poblacionde bajosingresos.


Desarrollo del sectoraseaurador

44.       En el sector asegurador y por iniciativadel Gobierno Nacional, la Ley 795 de 2003 previo una serie
de modificacionesa la estructura legal que gobierna la actividad aseguradora. Es asi que el regimen del
sector asegurador se ajustoen aspectos tales como la incorporacionde nuevasfacultadesde regulacionpara
el Gobierno Nacional en aspectos como-el patrimonio tecnico, el patrimonio adecuado, el regimen de
inversiones, el patrimonio requerido para la operacion de 10s diferentes ramos de seguro y 10s limites al
endeudamiento de las entidades aseguradoras y sociedades de capitalizacion. Ademas, se aclaro que el
margen de solvencia se determinara en funcion del importe de las primas o de la carga media de
siniestralidad, el que resulte mas elevado, quedando el Gobierno Nacional facultado para establecer la
periodicidad, forma, riesgos y elementos tecnicos de 10s factoresque determinandicho margende solvencia.

45.       Con base en estas facultades, se establecieron las tarifas maximas que pueden cobrarse por el
seguro obligatorio de daiios corporales causados a las personas en accidentes de transit0 y el valor de la
contribucion al Fondo de Solidaridady garantia, FOSYGA. Posteriormente,se expidio un decreto que obliga
a las compaiiias autorizadas para explorar este ram0 de seguro a expedir las polizas solicitadas y a
implementar un mecanismode compensacion que impidala seleccionadversapor categoriade vehiculos.

                                                     - 70 -



46.       Estas reformas contribuiran a contar con un sector mas solido y competitivo. Hacia el mediano
plazo, y posterior a un proceso de revision de 10s aspectos incorporados en un proyecto de decreto
relacionadocon la implementacionde normasde solvencia para el sector asegurador en 10s diferentesramos
de este sector, el Gobierno emitira normas relacionadas.El objetivo principalde estos ajustes normativoses
propenderpor la armonizacion de la regulacion y supervision de la actividad de las entidadesvigiladas por la
Superintendencia Bancaria, incluidas las del sector asegurador. En este contexto, tambien se han
implementadonormas requiriendo que las inversionesgestionadas por aseguradoras, AFPs, fideicomisosy
fondos mutuos, reporteny revelensus riesgos de mercado en sus pottafolios. Parael sector de pensiones, el
regimen de inversiones en titulos del exterior se ha ampliado para aumentar la diversificacion de 10s
portafoliosgestionadospor las AFPs.


Desarrollodel mercado de capitales

47.      Uno de 10s aspectos mas importantes dentro de este componente y en el cual el Gobierno Nacional
estacomprometido, dado el fenomeno de la globalizacionde 10s mercadosque exige que la regulacionde 10s
mismos se ajuste a las practicas y tendencias internacionalesy que la competencia y las nuevastecnologias
en informatica y comunicaciones han permitido un vertiginoso desarrollo de 10s mercados de valores
alrededordel mundo, es la necesidad de ajustar el esquema regulatorioa las nuevasformas de negocios y a
10s nuevos riesgosinvolucrados.

48.       Bajo la premisa anterior, el Gobierno retomo el analisis del anteproyecto de ley para regular las
actividades de manejo, aprovechamiento e inversion de recursos del publico que se efectuen mediante
valores. Del trabajo conjunto entre las distintasentidades involucradasen la revision proyecto, se obtuvo un
nuevo proyectoque propendepor dotar al mercadode valores colombiano de un marco regulatorioadecuado
y eficiente que permita mayores niveles de crecimiento, alternativas frente a las fuentes tradicionales de
financiacion empresarial y, principalmente, de un marco claro de actuacion para todos 10s participantesdel
mercado, con la seguridad juridica necesaria para que converjan inversionistasnacionales y extranjeros, y
con laflexibilidadnecesariaparafacilitarla adecuacionnormativaa las continuasinnovacionesdel mercado.

49.       El proyectoen mencion fue sometido a consideraciondel Honorable Congreso de la Republica a fin
de que surta el tramite legal previsto en las normas colombianas. El Gobierno brindara el apoyo que se
requierapara que el proyecto se conviertaen Ley de forma que el mercado de valores cuentecon un nuevo
marco institucionaleficiente, integro e idoneo.

50.       Por otro lado, y en el marco del Comite Asesor de Valoracion a Precios de Mercado, se continuo
revisando y ajustando la regulacionen esta materiacon el fin de obtener estandaresde buen gobiernoen la
unificacion de las metodologias de valoracion para titulos de deuda publica, deuda publica externa, otros
titulos publicosy valores de deuda privada.

51.      Las normas de capital paratodos 10s esquemasde inversioncolectivatambien se armonizaronpara
evitar el arbitraje regulatorio entre fondos gestionados por entidades bajo la supervision de la SBC o la SV.
Paraevitar arbitraje de precios en 10s fondos de valores, se implementonuevanormativapara que 10s precios
de 10s fondos se ajusten al valor en el dia de transaccion. Adicionalmente,se elaboro y se implementouna
ficha tecnica para la revelacion fiel, uniforme y comparable, de informacion y riesgos de 10s fondos y
esquemas de inversion colectiva gestionados igualmente por entidades supervisadas tanto por la SV como
por la SBC.

                                                   -71 -



Desarrollodel mercadode deuda

52        La politica del Gobierno Nacional encaminada a reducir el deficit fiscal tiene como proposito
igualmente hacer sostenible la deuda pliblica en el largo plazo. En este sentido, el Ministerio de Hacienda a
traves de la Direccion General de Credito Publico y Tesoro Nacional, ha diseiado una estrategia de
financiamientosoportada en el desarrollodel mercadode capitales interno y en una activa presencia tanto en
10s mercados de capitalesinternacionalescomo con la bancamultilateral.

53.       Durante 10s ultimos aRos las necesidades de financiamiento asociadas con un incremento en el
deficit fiscal consolidado representaron un importante crecimiento de la relacion deuda publica a PIB,
alcanzando niveles cercanos al 55% en 2002. Sin embargo, las politicas de ajuste fiscal detuvieron esta
tendenciaascendente, reduciendo este indicador a 52% en 2003. En este sentido, el marco fiscal de mediano
plazo establecido por el Gobierno pretende mantener esta tendencia y converger hacia una relacion deuda a
PIB inferioral 40% en 2015.

54.       La estrategia de endeudamiento se orienta hacia la diversificacibn de fuentes de financiamiento,
resaltando la importanciade contar con un mercado domestic0solido y profundo para evitar la vulnerabilidad
frente a choques externos. En este sentido, se mantienen 10s esfuerzos por consolidar el mercado de deuda
publica interna a traves del fortalecimiento del mercado de TES en el segment0 del corto plazo el cual ha
alcanzado niveles importantesde liquidezy profundidad.

55.       La Nacionmantendrasu presenciaen 10s mercadosde capitalesinternacionalesmediantela emision
de bonos y la realizacion de creditos sindicados. Igualmente, el objetivo es fortalecer las relaciones con la
bancamultilateralque representa hoy cerca del 20% de la deudatotal.

56.       Como resultadode esta politica, la composicion de la deuda internay externa que hoy representanel
52% y 48% respectivamente, se modificara gradualmente hasta alcanzar una participacion del componente
interno del 60% y extern0 del 40% para el 2010.

57        Finalmente, el Gobierno tiene previsto continuar con una activa politica de administracion de la
deuda, realizando operacionesde manejo de deuda que permitanmejorarel perfil de la misma. Para esto, se
establecio oficialmente un Comitede Deuda Publicacon responsabilidadesestrategicasdefinidas por decreto.


111.      CONCLUSIONES

58.       Muchas de la medidas y politicas descritas en este documento se han desarrollado en el marco del
Segundo Credito Programaticodel Programade Ajuste al Sector Financiero, a ser financiado con recursos del
Banco Mundial. Los avances alcanzados son satisfactorios y las condiciones economicas y sociales estan
dadas para continuar con las reformas que se requieran en la direccion de dotar al mercado de capitales
intermediadoy no intermediado de estabilidady claridad en las reglas que 10s regulan, en beneficio de todos
10s participantesdel mercado.

59.       Por Io anterior, el Gobierno esta comprometidocon el programa que se presenta en este documento
y ve con beneplacito el acompahamiento y el apoyo financiero del Banco Mundial a estos procesos. El
Gobierno agradece la pronta consideracion por parte del Directorio del Banco del nuevo credito programatico
de ajuste al Sector Financiero y esta a disposicion de 10s equipos tecnicos del Banco para definir
conjuntamente programas futuros de credito en la medida en que se consoliden 10s ajustes y se requieran
nuevasaccionesen el sectorfinanciero.

                             - 72 -

                                                       Annex 3




                   TIMETABLEOFKEYPROCESSINGEVENTS



Time taken to Prepare:
(Identification to Negotiations)      12months

Preparedby:                           GovernmentandWorld Bank Staff


Identification MissionDeparture:      August 11,2003


PreparationMissions                   December 8,2003
                                      February29,2004
                                      June 21,2004

Management ReviewMeeting              July 12,2004


Regional OperationsCommittee          August 2,2004


Appraisal:                            August 16,2004


Negotiations:                         August 20,2004


BoardPresentation:                    September23,2004


PlannedDateof Effectiveness:          September30,2004


Closing Date:                         March 31,2005

                                             - 73 -

                                                                                  Annex 4

                               FUNDRELATIONS NOTE



Press ReleaseNo. 041134                                       InternationalMonetary Fund

June 30,2004                                                  700 19th Street, NW
                                                              Washington, D.C. 20431USA


    IMFExecutive BoardCompletesThird Review Under Stand-By Arrangement for
                   Colombia and Approves US$284 Million Disbursement


        The Executive Boardof the International Monetary Fund(IMF) today completed
the third review of Colombia's performance under a two-year, SDR 1.5 billion (about
US$2.3 billion) Stand-By Arrangement approved on January 15,2003 (see Press Release
No. 03/04). Completion of the review enables the release of SDR 193.5 million (about
US$284 million), which would bringthe total amount available under the arrangementto
SDR 1.16billion (about US$1.70 billion).

        Incompleting the review, the Executive BoardapprovedColombia's requestfor a
waiver of non-observanceof aperformance criterion.

        Followingthe Executive Board's discussion of Colombia's economic
performance, AgustinCarstens, Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chair, said:
"Colombia's strong policy track record is bolstering confidence and contributing to the
economic recovery. In2004, real GDP growth i s projected to rise strongly, inflation to
continue to decline, and the external sector to remain strong. Colombia is well placedto
adjust to a gradual rise ininterest rates inthe UnitedStates, providedthat economic
policies continue to be strong. The main policy challenge for 2004 i s to take advantageof
the cyclical upturninactivity to press ahead with reforms that are crucial to sustainthe
economic recovery.

        "Demand policies are set to remain prudent.The authorities are strongly
committed to keepingfiscal policy on a path to reduce public debt over the mediumterm.
The combinedpublic sector deficit is targeted to decline in2004, with some roomto
accommodate additional investment financed by nondebt-creatingflows. The government
intendsto submit to Congressabudget for 2005 that provides for a combined public
sector deficit of 2.4 percent of GDP. Monetarypolicy will remain directed at reducing
inflation further, inthe context of the inflation-targeting framework and a flexible
exchangeratepolicy, while efforts will continue to strengthenthe financial system, and
improve supervision.

        "Structural reforms are also set to advance further. The government intendsto
secure congressionalapproval of the revised budget code during 2004, which would
allow the 2006 budget to be preparedunder the new code. Tax administration is to be
strengthenedfurther, and aconstitutional amendment on pensionreformis to be
submittedto CongressinJuly 2004. B y September 2004, the economic policy cabinet

                                           - 74 -

will develop a planto strengthen the current systemof fiscal decentralization. Colombia
has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, and the authorities planto phaseout the few
remainingexchangerestrictions inthe next few years.

"These reforms, together with prudentmacroeconomicpolicies, should lay a solid
foundation for sustainedgrowth and financial stability over the mediumterm, while also
reducing poverty and improving social indicators," Mr.Carstens said.




  July 2004                                                          International Monetary Fund
  IMFCountry Report No. 04/199                                       700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                    Washington, D.C. 20431 USA


Colombia: Third Review Under the Stand-By Arrangement and Request for Waiver
  of Nonobservanceof Performance Criterion-Staff Report; Press Release on the
Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the Executive Director for Colombia


       Inthe context of the thirdreview underthe Stand-By Arrangement andrequestfor
a waiver of nonobservanceof a performance criterionwith Colombia, the following
documents have been releasedand are included inthis package:

       The staff report for the thirdreview under the Stand-By Arrangement andrequest
       for waiver of nonobservanceof a performance criterion, prepared by a staff team
       of the IMF, following discussionsthat endedon April 25,2004, with the officials
       of Colombia on economic developmentsand policies. Based on information
       available at the time of these discussions, the staff report was completed on
       June 15,2004. The views expressedinthe staff report are those of the staff team
       and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Executive Boardof the IMF.

       A Press Release summarizing the views of the Executive Board as expressed
       during its June 30, 2004 discussion of the staff report that completed the review
       and request.

       A statementby the Executive Director for Colombia.

    The documents listed below have beenor will be separately released.

       Letter of Intentsent to the IMFby the authorities of Colombia
       Memorandum of Economic andFinancial Policies by the authorities of Colombia
       Technical Memorandum of Understanding

                                                 - 75 -                                       Annex 5




                              Colombia: IBRD/ IDA / Grants Portfolio
                                       As of August 10,2004



Active Projects (US$ Millions)
                                                       Original Amount

Project Name                                 FY      IBRD  IDA   GRANT Cancel.  Undisb.  Disbursed



COFIRSTAPL PEACEAND
DEVELOPMENT                                2004     30.0                         30.0         0.0
CO CARTAGENA WTR SUPPLY &
SEWERAGEENV.                               2000     85.0                         54.4       30.6
CO INTEGRATEDMASS TRANSIT                  2004    250.0                        250.0         0.0
CO JUDICIALRESOLUTION
IMPROVEMENT                                2002       5.0                1.1      2.4         2.6
CO PRODUCTIVEPARTNERSHIPS                  2002     32.0                10.0     16.7        15.3
CO PUBLICFINANC.MANAGEMENT
PROJECTI1                                  2001     35.5                         26.3         9.1
CO REGULATORY REFORMTA                     1997     12.5                          0.8        11.7
CO RURALEDUCATION                          2000     20.0                         12.1         7.9
CO SANTAFEI(WATERSUPPLY)                   1996    145.0                         23.7       121.3
CO SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT                                2000       5.0                         1.7         3.3
COWATER SECTOR REFFORM
PROJECT                                    2002     40.0                         34.0         6.0
CO- COMMUNITYWORKS (MANOS A
LA OBRA)                                   2000    100.0                67.0      6.0        94.0
CO- HUMANCAPITAL PROTECTION-
CASHTRANSFERS                              2001     150.0                        45.5       104.5
CO-HIGHEREDUCATION-
IMPROVINGACCESS                            2003    200.0                        179.4        20.6
CO: CUNDMARCA EDUCATION
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                        2004     15.0                         13.8          1.2
CO - BOGOTAURBANSERVICES
PROJECT                                    2003     100.0                        92.3         7.7
GEFCO - HIGHANDES                          2001                   15.0            9.7         5.3
MP/COODS PHASEOUT                          1999                    8.7            6.1         2.5

TOTAL                                             1225.0          23.7  78.1    804.8       443.8

                                                 - 76 -




                                           Colombia
                                       Statementof IFC's
                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        As of June 30,2004


                                         (US$ Millions)
                                                                             I
                                                Held                                    Disbursed

   FY Company                 Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic. Loan            Equity  Quasi   Partic
  2003 AAA                         18.24         0        0        a           16.54      0       0        0
  2002 BCSC                            0         7         0       a              0       7       0        0
  2002 Bavaria                       70          0        30    145              70       0      30       145
  2002 CF del Valle                    0     4.84          0                      0    4.84       0        0
  2001 CHMC                         9.62      8.85      3.42                   4.22    4.02     0.99       0
  2004 CartonesAmerica               22          0         0       aaa            19      0       0        0
  2001 Cementos Caribe              3.37     7.53          0   7.77            3.37    7.53       0      7.77
  1999 Cofiinsura                    25          0        25                      0       0       25       0
  2003 DAVIVIENDA                  15.25         0         0                   15.25      0        0       0
  2002 Inversura                      0         15         0                      0       15       0       0
  2002 Omimex Oil                    30          0         5                    10.7       0       5       0
  1987 PRODESAL                       0      0.59          0                      0    0.59        0        0
1977/96 Promigas                    2.5          0         0                    2.5        0       0        0
  1995 Promisan                       0       0.2          0                      0      0.2       0        0
  2002 Proteccion                     0         10         0                      0       10       0        0
  2002 SIC                           25          0     50.42                     25        0   50.42        0
  1999 Surenting                      0       5.1          0       aaaaaaaaaa     0      2.5       0        0
  2001 Tolcemento                  3.33          0         0   7.11               0        0       0        0

       Total Portfolio           224.31    59.11     113.84 159.881 166.58            51.68 111.41    152.77




                 Approvals Pending Commitment
                              Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.
  2004 Bancafe                        0    20.25           0       0
  2001 CHMC                           0     19.38          0       0
  2004 CHMC - NPL                     0         0          0       0
  2004 CaribbeanCoal                 25         0          0       0
  2004 Carvajal S.A.                 35         0         35       0
  2003 DAVIVIENDA                     0         0         10       0

Total Pending Commitment:            60    39.63         45        0

                                                             - 77 -                                                           Annex 6
                                      Colombia at a glance                                                                9/3/03


                                                                Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America  middle-
                                                    Colombia  & Carib. income       Developmentdiamond*
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                          43.7     527     2,411                   Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                      1,830    3,280    1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US5billions)                         60.1    1,727    3,352                          -
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                             1.8     1.5      1.o
Laborforce 1%)                                           2.6      2.2      1.2      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                     per                               primary
Most recentestimate(latestyear available, 1996-02)                                  capita                            nrollment
Poverty (?Aofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                     76      76        49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                            72      71        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 livebirfhs)                   19      27        30
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                      7       9       11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)        91       86       61
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 154                            8      11       13
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)       112      130      111         -Colombia
    Male                                                 113      131      111               Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                               112      128      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982     1992    2001     2002        Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                              39.0     49.2     82.4     82.2
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                   20.5     16.7     14.9
Exportsof goodsandservicedGDP                  10.9     17.7     19.4                                 Trade

Gross domesticsavingdGDP                       16.3     18.7     15.3                                   -
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                       13.6     18.4     14.3

Currentaccount balance/GDP                      -8.4      1.8    -2.2      -2.2
InterestpaymentdGDP                                                                  Domestic
                                                 1.8     2.6      3.0      2.4                                       Investment
Totaldebt/GDP                                  26.4     35.1     44.5                savings

Totaldebt service/exports                      27.8     36.8     36.1
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                         45.6




                                               19e2     I9g2    2001     2002        Growthof investmentand GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    19.3      15.8    13.0                20

Industry                                       31.8     35.0     29.9                 0
   Manufacturing                               21.8      19.8    16.3         ..    .zo
Services                                       48.9     49.3     57.1         "     -40
Privateconsumption                             72.8     71.6     63.6         ..    -60
Generalgovernmentconsumption                   10.9       9.5    21.1
Importsof goodsand services                    15.2     15.8     19.0                         -GDI           -GDP



                                           1982-92 1992-02      2o01     2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                               Growthof exports andimports(%)

Agriculture                                     3.5      -1.4     0.1               20

Industry                                        5.0      0.7     -0.1                10
   Manufacturing                                4.2      -2.1    -0.8                 0
Services                                        3.5      3.4      2.1         ....  -10                                      2

Privateconsumption                              2.9       1.5     1.9               -20
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    4.8      9.6      0.3         ..    -30
Gross domesticinvestment                        1.0      -2.9     9.6                       -Exports         -Imports
Importsof goodsandservices                      2.9      3.1     11.2

                                                             - 78 -

                                                                                                                         Co1ombia

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1982     1992        2001     2002                                                      I
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                                         1 225 -
                                                                                     -.
                                                                                      5                                               I
Consumer prices                                24.6    25.1          6.5      6.0    20

ImplicitGDP deflator                           24.8    23.6          7.6      7.0    15
                                                                                     10
Governmentfinance                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                      I
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                       0
Current revenue                                         13.7        13.3    13.6               97     98    99       00    01
Current budgetbalance                                    3.0        -5.0     -3.7              -GDP        deflator  -CPI
Overallsurplus/deficit                                  -1.9        -6.1     -4.6                                                   O2


                                                                                                                                      I
TRADE
                                              1982     1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                        Exportandimportlevels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                          3,264    7,263      12,309   11,903
 Coffee                                       1,562    1,259        764      991     20'ooo T
 Petroleum                                      215    1,396      3,083    3,037     15 WO
 Manufactures                                   837   2,272       5,606    6,156
Total imports (cif)                           5,478   6,627      12,834   13,026     10 000

 Food                                           303     450        1,578    1,161
 Fueland energy                                 659     344          189     233       5 . m
                                                                                                                                      I
 Capitalgoods                                2,048    2,255       4,468    4,528           0

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                       9       63        243                       96   97     98   99     00  01

Import price index (1995=100)                     8       69        209                            Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       115       91         116                                                         O Z


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1982     1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Current accountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and sewices                  4,785    9,257       14,932  14,439
Importsof goods and sewices                  7,052    8,262       15,840  16,077      ' T
Resourcebalance                              -2,267     994         -908   -1,639

Net income                                   -1,184  -1,852       -2,975   -2,525
Netcurrent transfers                            171    1,734      2,094    2,335

Current account balance                      -3,280     876       -1,789   -1,828

Financing items (net)                        2,930      450       2,956     1,323
Changes in net reserves                         350  -1,326       -1,166      505

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                             10,245  10,649
Conversion rate (DEC,/oca//US$)                64.1   681.O      2,299.8  2,504.2

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1982     1992        2001     2002
(US$millions)                                                                          Compositionof 2001 debt(US$mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        10,306   17,277      36,699
  IBRD                                        1,346   3,195       2,006                                     A: 2,006
  IDA                                            20       13           7                           G: 3,738         6:7

Total debt service                            1,491   4,008       6,297                                                    5,242
  IBRD                                          187     959         365
  IDA                                             1        1           1                                                   E 1337
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 12      89           86
  Officialcreditors                             403    -413        1,083
  Privatecreditors                              856      -12       1,312
  Foreigndirect investment                      366     729       2,328
  Pottfolioequity                                 0        0         -43                         F:24.369
World Bank program
  Commitments                                   738     466         636                A - IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                          -
  Disbursements                                 277     262         368                6 . IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                                    -                    F Private
  Principal repayments                          93      681         233                C IMF
                                                                                          -                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                          .-
  Netflows                                      185    -420          135
  Interestpayments                              95      278          133
  Nettransfers                                  90     -698            3


Note:Thistable was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.                                                     9/3/03


