Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21707-PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.7 MILLION(US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS IN THE PERUVIAN AMAZON (GEF)
PROJECT
January 19, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = New Soles
1 S/. = US$0.29
US$1 = S/.3.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAR            Agency for Atazoniaii Rural Developrent (Agencia  LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
para el Desarrollo Amaz6nico Rural)
AIDESEP         Interethnic Association for the Development of the  LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
Peruvian Rainforest
CBD             Convention on Biological Diversity               M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
CDC             Conservation Database Center                     MSP                    Medium-sized Project
CEPES           Peruvian Center for Social Studies               NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
Ci              Conservation International                       NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
COICAP          Peruvian Indigenous and Peasant Committee)       PDF                    Project Preparation and Development Facility
CONAM           National Environmental Council                   PMR                    Project Management Report
CONAP           National Amazon Confederation of Peru            PROFONANPE             Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas
COP             Conference of the Parties to the Biological Diversity   PRONAMACHCS     National Program  for River Basin Management and
Convention.                                                             Soil Conservation
CPT             Central Pmject Team                              PROMUDER               Ministry for Women and Human Development
DGANPFS         General Directorate of Natural Protected Areas   SC                     Steering Committee
and Wildlife Fauna
ENNIV           National Quality of Life Survey                  SETAI                  Technical Secretariat of Indigenous Affairs
FONCODES    National Fund for Social Compensation and            SINANPE                National Natural Protected Areas System of Perui
Development
FPT             Field Project Team                               SIU                    Special Implementation Unit
GIS             Geographic Information System                    SNV                    Netherlands Volunteer Service
GoP             Government of Peru                               SOE                    Statement of Expenditure
GTZ             German Cooperation                               TCCR                   Tamshiyacu-Tahuayo Communal Reserve
IDB             Inter American Development Bank                  UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
IIAP            Research Institute of the Peruvian Amazon        USAID                  United States Agency for International Development
INADE           National Development Institute                   WWF                    World Wildlife Fund
INRENA          National Natural Resources Institute             YCR                    Yanesha Conmrmunal Reserve
ITTO            International Tropical Timber Organization       ZCC                    Zonal Coordinating Committee
IUCN-Perua    Peruvian Comnittee of The World Conservation
Union
Vice President:         David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:              Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:             John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carlos Monge / Pierre Werbrouck



PERU
INDIGENOUS MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS IN THE PERUVIAN AMAZON
(GEF)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                         15
3. Technical                                                                         15
4. Institutional                                                                     15
5. Environmental                                                                     16
6. Social                                                                            17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   21



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    23
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                             23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        39
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                      40
Annex 5: Financial Assessment                                                           44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           58
Annex 11: Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation                                       60
Annex 12: Social Characteristics and Biodiversity Situation of Project Areas            62
Annex 13: Social Assessment and Public Participation Analysis                           65
Annex 14: Project Implementation Plan                                                   67
MAP(S)
31213 Indigenous Management of Natural Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon.



PERU
Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF) Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCCPE
Date: January 19, 2001                             Team Leader: Pierre Werbrouck
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero       Sector Manager/Director: Teresa Serra for John Redwood
Project ID: P065200                                Sector(s): MC - Community Action Program, VI -
Environmental Institutions, VM - Natural Resources
Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                       Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [ ] Credit    [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee     1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 7.7 MILLION (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        3.08            0.06          3.14
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               1.01            0.00          1.01
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IBRD FUND                       4.97            0.03          5.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     9.55            0.45         10.00
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                            3.59            0.02          3.60
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                         22.20            0.55         22.75
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Responsible agency: INRENA
INRENA
Address: Los Petirojos No 355, San Isidro, Lima, Peru
Contact Person: Ing. Mattias Prieto Celi
Tel: 224-3037                 Fax: 224-3218                 Email: Inrena-Dganpfs@Terra.Com.Pe
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY      ~~20011   2002  I   2003  1042005                      206
Anul                                   2001
Annual    0.80        2.40        3.20       2.30      0.80       0.50
Cumulative    0.80        3.20       6.40       8.70       9.50     10.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
O  PAD F- . P- WM 2=



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to increase the sustainability of biodiversity conservation through the
involvement of indigenous communities in the management of new and existing protected areas in the Peruvian
Amazon Region. This will be achieved by: (i) establishing, categorizing and promoting the participatory
management of five protected areas; (ii) promoting economically, socially and environmentally sustainable
investments by indigenous grassroots organizations; (iii) developing and implementing a participatory monitoring
and evaluation system for the project areas and the National Natural Protected Area System as a whole; and (iv)
strengthening the institutional and technical capacity of INRENA and indigenous organizations to sustainably
manage the protected areas and their natural resources.
The Amazon Region of Peru is one of the most important repositories of biological diversity on the planet. Given
its strategic location in the upper watershed of the basin, Peru's Amazon Region contains a very rich biodiversity
expressed in terms of its unique richness of species, high levels of endemism, and habitat diversity. Its conservation
is of outmost importance in the goal of preserving the world's biodiversity. The project emerges from a
commitment by the Govermnent of Peru (GoP) to expand effective forest conservation in the Amazon Region. In
parallel, the GoP is also promoting a greater involvement of local communities (particularly indigenous peoples) in
the direct management of protected areas to ensure equitable sharing of the benefits resulting from conservation.
The conservation and sustainable utilization of important forest ecosystems in the Peruvian Amazon Region
through the establishment of protected areas to be co-managed by indigenous people is a global objective supported
by the Global Environment Facility (GEF).
Therefore, the project combines national biodiversity conservation with long-term and sustained poverty alleviation
objectives aimed at Amazonian indigenous people. The project will also allow the GoP to implement communal
indigenous participation in protected area management as a tool to increase the social sustainability of its system of
protected areas through facilitating the generation of benefits emerging from protected areas to local communities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1. Indigenous people co-manage protected areas in the five target zones through their participation in the
corresponding Protected Areas Management Committees.
2. Biodiversity loss (as measured by monitoring indicators) is stopped in five target areas.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R97-161             Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/22/97
The Project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Peru and will contribute to support
its goal of attaining sustained and continuous reduction of poverty. A central assumption linking the project's
development objective to this goal is that the establishment of participatory mechanisms for protected areas
management supports sustainable poverty reduction through enhanced natural resources management in the
Amazon region of the country.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Peru ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on June 7, 1993. The proposed project is consistent
with the GEF Operational Strategy, supporting long-term protection of globally imnportant ecosystems. This project
supports Operational Programs 3 (Forests Ecosystems) and 2 (Freshwater Ecosystems).
-2 -



The project is fully consistent with Peru's first report to the Fourth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the
Biological Diversity Convention (COP IV). The project is also fully consistent with the principles of the CBD by
supporting all three levels of biodiversity (ecosystems, species, and genes) and supports COP Decisions 118, II/8,
IIV9, II19, 1IV10 and 111112, and Recommendation I/3 of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical, and
Technological Affairs (SBSTTA) of the CBD.
The GEF will finance the incremental costs of promoting local sustainable uses of natural resources in four
currently existing and one to be created protected areas, working towards the achievement of their long-term
biological and social sustainability by ensuring a meaningful level of participation by local indigenous
communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Amazonian indigenous population is among the poorest in Peru. This is a threat to biodiversity conservation
and sustainable natural resources management because poverty fuels short-tern extraction of natural resources.
Unsustainable extraction of natural resources and unplanned settlement in rural areas have caused heavy
environmental degradation, including a serious loss of biodiversity. The main sectors relevant to this project are
indigenous people, natural resources management, and biodiversity conservation through participatory protected
area management.
Biodiversitv Conservation. Natural Resources, and Protected Area Management. The establishment of protected
areas and their classification under various regimes of use is a central tool in increasing biodiversity conservation
and sustainability of natural resources management.
Impacts to date of conservation efforts in Peru are still limited due to weak local and national public awareness,
lack of sufficient public resources, and increasing but still inadequate coverage of protected areas in the Amazon
Region. In addition, the lack of indigenous participation in conservation and sustainable use threatens their rights
as peoples that have occupied the Amazonian area for at least the past millennium and limits opportunities to
benefit from their knowledge of natural resources sustainable use.
In recent years the Peruvian Government has increased efforts towards biodiversity conservation and sustainable
use, including important steps towards the consolidation of SINANPE (National System for State Protected Areas
-- Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas por el Estado) . Among the most important are the following:
a) Consolidation of a coherent policy framework for biodiversity conservation and protected area management.
Steps to date have included the approval of a Biodiversity Law, a Protected Areas Law, and the elaboration of
a strategy for SINANPE (Supreme Decree DS 010-99-AG), following a process of consultation and
participation, which incorporates the most up-to-date participatory concepts and proposals for the management
of protected areas. The resulting Master Plan (Plan Director) for SINANPE identifies new protected areas
that need to be established in order to achieve eco-regional representation and to protect the highest priority
areas.
b) SINANPE will eventually include approximately 65 protected areas of national importance covering
between 12 and 15 percent of the country's territory. The national system currently includes 52 protected areas,
17 of which are "Reserved Zones", awaiting permanent categorization. Three Reserved Zones (Santiago-
Comaina, Gueppi and Alto Purus) have been created in the context of project preparation.
c) A significant increase in the amount of National Treasury resources allocated to protected areas
management. Between 1991 and 1998, protected areas grew from 39 to 48; areas with a Protected Area
Director from 10 to 39 and total number of park rangers from 60 to 240. State budget allocations to the
SINANPE increased from US$163,400 to approx. US$1.5 million. In the last years 1NRENA as such has
administered annual budgets close to US$500,000. At the same time, the SINANPE has benefited from
allocations through the Peruvian National Trust Fund for Protected Areas (Fondo Nacional para Areas
- 3 -



Naturales Protegidas por el Estado) (PROFONANPE), that have grown from US$500,000 in 1996 to US$2.4
million in 1998. In the last two years, the GoP and the PROFONANPE have worked out two debt swaps for
nature, which in fact imply further transfers of public resources to the protected areas of the country. See
Annex 4)
d) The creation and successful operation of a national protected areas fund administered by PROFONANPE.
PROFONANPE's goal is to provide stable long-term financing for biodiversity conservation through the
administration and channeling of financial resources to the management of protected areas and buffer zones.
On the basis of a Trust Fund established with support of a GEF Grant, it has succeeded in channeling funds
from grants and debt-for-nature swaps from a variety of sources.
e) Formulation of master plans and management plans, utilizing participatory planning methodologies in
consultation with key stakeholders. Bilateral donors have contributed to the implementation of various
integrated conservation and development projects in areas such as Manu National Park, Pacaya-Samiria
National Reserve, the Tumbes Mangroves National Sanctuary, Ampay National Sanctuary,
Yanachaga-Chemillen National Park, Huascaran National Park, and Bahuaja-Sonene National Park.
Rural Poverty and Indigenous People. This project benefits from sector and preparation work already conducted
through the Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Development Project, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).
Amazonian indigenous people face irnportant development challenges related to: (i) an inconsistent legal and
institutional framework towards indigenous people that guarantees them neither secure access to their land nor the
control over natural resources use; and (ii) existing disparities between urban/rural and indigenous/non-indigenous
poverty.
Although there has been some reduction in rural poverty in recent years, prior to the current recession, most
economic gains have occurred in urban areas. This has led to a higher concentration of poverty in rural compared
to urban areas. Almost 50 percent of the poor and 60 percent of the extreme poor in Peru lived in rural areas in
1997, whereas more than two-thirds of the total population lives in urban areas. In addition, the indigenous
population is falling further behind the non-indigenous population. Indigenous peoples were 40 percent more likely
to be poor than the non-indigenous population in 1994, and 49 percent more like to be poor in 1997 (see Poverty
and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997).
The GoP has implemented a poverty reduction strategy that has combined the promotion of market oriented
reforms to increase the poor's opportunities, with special resource transfer and capacity building programs. Since
the early 90s, the GoP has deregulated markets, stimulated entrepreneurial organization and provided technical
assistance to the rural poor to increment their opportunities in the national and international market environment.
At the same time, through a number of poverty alleviation programs such as the National Social Compensation and
Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo - FONCODES) and the National Program for
River Basin Management and Soil Conservation (Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrograficas y
Conservaci6n de Suelos - PRONAMACHCS), the GoP has transferred resources and capacities to local populations
in rural areas of extreme poverty to address short-term needs and set the foundations for sustainable development.
FONCODES has prioritized the generation of short-term employment and incomes, funding productive and social
infrastructure initiatives. PRONAMACHCS, operating only in the Andean Region, promotes soil conservation,
forestation and small scale irrigation.
In all cases, these projects are demand driven, with local grassroots organizations prioritizing their initiatives and
in charge of sub project implementation. At the same time, sustainability of these activities is not assured as
emphasis has not been placed on establishing mechanisms and fostering local institutional capacities to manage the
resulting infrastructure in a sustainable way. Strengthening of local capacities and institutional mechanisms to
insure sustainability of implemented activities is still a challenge in the fight against poverty.
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Biodiversitv Conservation. Peruvian protected areas legislation recognizes a large number of management
categories for protected areas, including communal reserves, national reserves, national parks, and others. The
project takes advantage of this diversity of options for protected areas and proposes the establishment of the most
appropriate categories for biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use in the areas concemed. The main
strategy to be pursued by this project derives from the need for direct participation of indigenous communities in
the management of conservation areas. Lessons learned in Peru and elsewhere have demonstrated that the
sustainability of protected areas is reinforced when the local population benefits directly from their establishment
and participate in the decision-making processes. There are currently more than 50 ethnic groups in Peru, and
their organizations have expressed a special interest in maintaining the biological integrity of the areas where they
live through conservation and the promotion of development options which maintain the greatest possible degree of
forest cover. In the case of this project, the indigenous participatory strategy will be implemented through the
communal management of areas in the case of the communal reserves, through co-management mechanisms in the
case of indirect use areas within the SINANPE, and through management plans designed for titled communal land.
Therefore, the project supports the strengthening of the National Institute for Natural Resources (INRENA)
capacity to execute policy commitments related to increased participation of local communities in the management
of protected areas.
Rural Poverty and Indigenous People. Extreme poverty and market integration has led indigenous populations to
abandon traditional sustainable uses of natural resources embarking on unsustainable extractive activities. In many
cases, measures to mitigate negative impacts were taken without the consultation and participation of local
communities. The project will address the issue of indigenous people's poverty by developing a number of technical
instruments that establish the possible uses of natural resources in and around protected areas (master plans, public
use plans, resources use plans, zoning plans) and funding indigenous initiatives for the sustainable use of such
resources, including basic economic studies, pre-investment studies, investments, and technical assistance for
project implementation.
Colono, mestizo and riberefio (riverain) populations are part of the rural poor in the Peruvian Amazon. Specially
new migrants constitute a mayor threat to biodiversity and also to indigenous rights as they encroach upon land
and resources. The project -even when centered in the indigenous populations- will have a positive impact on
these sectors as participants of the Protected Areas Management Committees (PAMCs). Though such participation,
the colono, mestizo and riberefno leadership will raise its consciousness on the strategic importance of conservation
and sustainable use of natural resources and of adequate protected area management.
In general terms, the GEF Project Preparation and Development Facility (PDF) Block B grant activities have been
instrumental in refining the project strategic choices, outlined during the preparation of the Project Concept
Document (PCD). Issues for which PDF Block B has been crucial are:
3.1 Selection of project target zones areas and protected area's creation and categorization.
The initial selection of target areas for project implementation was the result of a consultative and participatory
process which included representatives from  INRENA; the Ministry for Women and Human Development (
PROMUDEH); indigenous groups, including their two confederations (the Inter Ethnic Association for the
Development of the Peruvian Rainforest --AIDESEP and the National Amazon Confederation of Peru --CONAP);
and national and local NGOs. It took into account proposals made by local indigenous organizations and social
and technical criteria identified during the design phase of the project, sharing the view that new protected areas
needed to be created. At that point, the decision was to work in Pacaya Samiria National Reserve and in four still
to be established protected areas: Santiago-Comaina, Purus, Gueppi and El Sira. Along the process of project
preparation, three new protected areas have been established as Reserved Zones, but not yet classified
(Santiago-Comaina, Gueppi and Alto Purus). Only El Sira remains now to be established as a protected area. It is
important to note here that, according to the Peruvian legislation, protected areas can be established initially as
Reserved Zones, to be later "categorized', that is assigned pernanently one of the 9 categories contemplated in the
Law of National Protected Areas. These are National Parks, National Sanctuaries, Historical Sanctuaries, Scenery
- 5 -



Reserves, Wildlige Refuges, National Reserves, Communal Reserves, Protection Forests, and Hunting Areas.
In relation to the protected areas to be created and/or permanently categorized, the PDF Block B technical studies
and consultation process have ratified the choice of areas in terms of their importance for biodiversity conservation,
and at the same time have helped gain more precision concerning protected area coverage, creation timing, and
local actors and interests concerning final categorization.
a) In Santiago-Comaina, PDF Block B activities allowed for a better knowledge of local actors and interests in a
complex scenario in which indigenous titled lands, Communal Reserves, Protection Forests and National Parks
need to be seen as components of one single conservation and sustainable use strategy. In this Reserved Zone, on
the basis of a consensus emerging out of Block B consultations, the GoP has recently extended the Reserved Zone.
b) In Gueppi, project preparatory workshops identified the need for further technical studies and consensus
building among local indigenous groups and the National Development Institute (INADE) regarding the exact
dimensions of a National Reserve and a Communal Reserve to be permanently categorized from the currently
existing Reserved Zone.
c) Project preparation in Alto Purus substantiated the GoPs recent decision to create this area as a Reserved Zone
of over 5 million hectares (the largest protected area in the country).
d) INRENA and indigenous communities have ratified their willingness to create and manage a Communal
Reserve in El Sira. The technical documentation sustaining the creation of a Communal Reserve was presented
years ago and only needs some minor updating to be processed.
e) Finally, in the Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve, project preparatory activities supported the drafting of the
Reserve's Master Plan. Further information on the biological and socioeconomic characteristics of the project's
target zones can be found in Annex 12.
Two of the project protected areas are located in the Peruvian-Ecuadorian border region, high priority area under
the Peru-Ecuador Broad Agreement for Border Integration, Development and Neighborhood, dated October 26,
1998.
3.2 Institutional and implementation arrangements.
Project preparation also helped to clarify issues related to project institutional and implementation arrangements.
Regarding institutional arrangements, project preparation has demonstrated:
i) The importance of a Project Steering Committee (SC) where all stakeholders can participate;
ii) The importance of having a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) within INRENA that can simultaneously
guarantee efficiency in execution and adequate INRENA leadership;
iii) The importance of reinforcing INRENA's local teams for project implementation, with the sufficient operating
autonomy and with involvement of local indigenous leaders.
iv) The'importance of establishing participatory mechanisms, such as the Zonal Coordinating Committees, for
indigenous participation in project implementation.
3.3 Sustainability of participatory strategies.
Project participatory strategies will be further sustained by collaborating with the activities foreseen in the Bank
financed Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Development Project to be implemented by the Secretaria Tecnica de
Asuntos Indigenas (SETAI) of PROMUDEH. This project includes the drafting of an indigenous law (Ley de
Desarrollo Indigena); awareness programs for public sector officials on indigenous peoples issues; and providing
technical assistance and institutional strengthening of local indigenous organizations in the Alto Purus and
Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zones.
- 6-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will finance the implementation of four components:
Participatory Biodiversity Conservation. The project will finance: (i) preparation of planning documents and the
consultative process for creation of one new protected area and the permanent categorization of three existing
Reserved Zones; (ii) establishment of Protected Area Management Committees (PAMC) in the five target areas;
(iii) creation of a commnunity based and managed Protected Area Surveillance System; (iv) training in participatory
methods for indigenous community leaders; (v) implementation of a public awareness program; (vi) the
construction and refurbishment of facilities (park management facilities, interpretation centers, and other minor
infrastructure) in the project areas; (vii) local staff and specialists on indigenous affairs and monitoring evaluation
to be part of the Project Field Teams, and (viii) office, transportation and communications equipment.
Sustainable Use of Biodiversity. The project will finance: (i) preparation of management plans for titled
indigenous land; (ii) technical studies for awarding community natural resource use contracts; (iii) demand and
market studies; and (iv) biodiversity investment sub-grants. These sub-grants will include funding for
pre-investnents, investrnents and technical assistance. Investments will require 50% co-funding by beneficiaries.
Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E). Support will be provided to 1NRENA to establish a M&E Unit at the
central level and zonal levels and to contract: (i) an analysis of the conservation and socioeconomic status of
project areas and baseline information; (ii) development of biological and socio-economic databases and
Geographical Information System; and (iii) preparation and initial implementation of biological and
socio-economic monitoring plans as well as a matrix for measuring the effectiveness of the management of the
protected areas included under this project; (iv) INRENA staff and local indigenous promoter's training. Staff,
equipment and operational costs for the central and zonal units will be covered under this component.
Project Implementation. The project will strengthen the capacity of INRENA to manage the areas of SINANPE
included under this project. The project will finance: (i) central staff and field staff, equipment and operational
costs jointly with INRENA; (ii) consultant services for legal, social and gender issues; and (iii) the project
coordinating mechanisms.
Indicative             Bank      % of     GEF  -     o.
Component                Sector         Costs      % of    financing. Bank   financing    ;EF
WUSSM)    Total      (USW14)  financing  (US$M)  financig
A. Participatory Biodiversity   Natural Resources  9.24        40.6    2.29       45.8     4.31    43.1
Conservation                Management
B. Sustainable Use of       Natural Resources      7.75        34.1    2.53       50.6     3.11    31.1
Biodiversity                Management
C. Monitoring and Evaluation  Natural Resources    2.00         8.8    0.00        0.0     1.28    12.8
Management
D. Project Management       Environmental          3.76        16.5    0.18        3.6     1.30    13.0
Institutions
Total Project Costs                     22.75       100.0    5.00       100.0    10.00   100.0
Total Financing Required                      22.75       100.0    5.00      100.0    10.00   100.0
-7-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will reinforce key policies aimed at conserving biodiversity and furthering institutional reforms
underway.
*      Long term vision for biodiversity conservation. With assistance for the creation of a new protected area
and the categorization of three Reserved Zones, the project will strengthen SINANPE as a system that conserves a
representative sample of the country's critical ecosystems.
*      Participatory management. The project will support participatory management policies as outlined in
the SINANPE Master Plan and the Biodiversity Conservation Law by contributing towards the establishment and
operations of PAMCs and creating community surveillance systems in areas of project intervention.
*      Indigenous dimension.  The project supports policies which recognize and protect the collective
knowledge of indigenous peoples, assisting them in making sustainable use of existing resources in an
economically, socially and environmentally sound manner and active participants in protected area management
mechanisms. Indigenous communities will also participate in project management through the ZCCs.
*      Decentralization. Strengthening management and administration of protect areas and involving local
governments in decision making processes related to protected areas furthers decentralization policies
*      Generation of accurate information for decision making. Developing monitoring and evaluation
systems for biodiversity conservation will contribute to a more rational use of natural resources, contributing to the
well-being of indigenous communities within the protected area system.
3. Benefits and target population:
The expected benefits from the project include
*      Incorporation of approximrtely 650 000 new hectares to SINANPE.
*      Definite categorization of approximately 6.5 million hectares now under a transitional category.
*      Use of natural resources in project areas by over 300 indigenous communities for their own benefit.
*      Added surveillance of five protected areas by communities themselves.
*      Trained indigenous leaders in participatory mechanisms.
*      Increased income of 100 indigenous groups through natural resource biodiversity investments.
*      Participatory management mechanisms in five protected areas.
*      Monitoring and evaluation tools for biodiversity conservation for SINANPE as a whole.
*      Institutional capacity for management of SINANPE.
The project's target population includes indigenous communities within the five protected areas under this project.
The target population includes 16 ethnic groups: Aguaruna, Huambisa, Cocama, Qicha, Hitoto, Secoya, Ashanika,
Yanesha, Shipibo, Cashinahua, Sharanahua, Amahuaca, Culina, and Mastahuana, Mashco-Piro and Muruhuana. It
is estimated that over 300 communities will benefit representing a total of 90,000 beneficiaries or 18,000 families.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Institutional Arrangements
Implementing Agencies: INRENA is the project's implementing agency.
Project Management: The project will finance the establishment of a Special Implementation Unit (SIU)
within INRENA. SIU will have legal, administrative and financial autonomy. The establishment of SRI, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, will be a condition for grant effectiveness. SIU will be composed of a Central Project
Team (CPT) and five Field Project Teams (FPT).
The CPT, to be established at INRENA headquarters in Lima, will be staffed by: (i) a Project Coordinator; (ii)
an administrator; (iii) an accountant; (iv) a treasurer; (v) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; and (vi)
- 8-



support staff. Its main task will be to: (i) administer and manage the project; (ii) ensure coordination of project
activities with INRENA projects and programs and government institutions involved in indigenous people
issues; (iii) procure goods and services; (iv) establish, administer and supervise the work of FPTs; (v) monitor
and evaluate project progress, (vi) contract annual external auditing of project accounts and (vii) represent the
project before the project Steering Committee.
The FPTs consist of the existing or to be established local INRENA teams in each of the five target areas. FPTs
will operate in the cities of Santa Maria de Nieva (Santiago-Comaina); Santa Teresa (Gueppi); Nauta
(Pacaya-Samiria); Esperanza (Alto Purus); Puerto Bermuidez (El Sira). ZPTs will be staffed by: (i) a Local
Project Coordinator (LPC, a responsibility to be assumed by the Protected Area Chief); (ii) an administrator;
(iii) an indigenous people specialist; (iv) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; and (v) support staff. The
ZPTs will undertake field implementation and coordination of project activities with public and private
institutions operating in the project area. They will be responsible for: (i) supervising the work of outside
contractors responsible for the preparation of master, public use and management plans; (ii) assisting local
communities in the preparation of funding proposals; (iii) supervising the execution of sub projects by
beneficiary communities; (iv) preparing annual operating plans; and (v) supporting the work of the ZCCs. Core
staff will be appointed to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Project Coordination: Guidance in project implementation will be provided at the national level by a Steering
Comnmnittee (SC). The SC will be composed of representatives of the govemment, the indigenous people and
environmental NGOs. The Director of DGANPFS of INRENA who will preside the Steering Committee. The
Govemment representation may include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Foreign Relations,
Presidency of the Council of Ministers (SECTI), PROMUDEH (in particular SETAI), and other sectoral
ministries. The representatives of indigenous people organizations will be appointed by the Interethnic
Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rain Forest (AIDESEP) and the Peruvian Confederation of
Amazonian Nationalities (CONAP). The representatives of the environmental NGOs will come from the
National Environmental Society, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or other NGOs.
An IBRD official may participate in SC meetings as an observer. The SC will: (i) provide policy guidelines for
project implementation; (ii) approve core staff appointments; (iii) approve annual operating plans and budgets
(AOPB); iv) review annual project implementation reports; (v) consider project implementation monitoring
reports; and (vi) review annual auditing reports prepared by external auditors.
Guidance at the local level will be provided by Zonal Coordinating Committees (ZCCs), to be established in the
five project implementation areas. These committees will be integrated by the LPC and representatives of the
local indigenous communities. These committees will: (i) review annual operating plans; (ii) consider and
approve sub grant proposals for sustainable productive investments submitted by local organizations; (iii)
review reports on sub-projects implementation; and (iv) ensure coordination of project activities with overall
participatory mechanisms within the area PAMCs.
Relations between Zonal Coordinating Committees and Protected Areas Management Committees:
PAMCs are mandated by law as the local institutional frarneworks where local stakeholders can oversee
protected areas management. The regulations of the N-atural Protected Areas Law will define the specifics of
representation to the PAMCS by the different stakeholders, including the local indigenous populations and
their organizations. Regarding the relations between the project's ZCCs and the PAMCs: (i) The LPC in charge
of the ZCC is at the same time the head of the PAMC; (ii) the establishment of the ZCCs, which depends on a
project's decision, will be immediate; (iii) selection of indigenous representatives to the ZCCs will be
immediate, and based on the agreement that representatives to the ZCC will be the same representing the
digenous                  \1MIC                               '- establishment of the PAMCs are
to be spelled out m the Regulations of the Protected Areas Law and will require a technical and legal procedure
through INRENA; (v) ZCCs working plan will include an specific training component for indigenous leaders
on PAMCs and their participants' rights and obligations; (vi) ZCCs will have a say on project implementation
while PAMCs will have a say on protected area management, including those project activities that have a
direct relation to protected area management.
-9-



4.2 Implementation arrangements
Operations Manual (OM):
A draft Operations Manual (OM) was revised during appraisal and agreed during negotiations. The OM will
contain: (i) mechanisms and procedures for project coordination and implementation including Terms of
Reference for the SC ; (ii) disbursement, procurement, accounts, auditing and reporting procedures including
Terms of Reference (TOR) for external auditors; (iii) description of training programs and methodologies; (iv)
project monitoring and evaluation plan; (v) an environmental framework for mitigating and remediating
negative impacts of civil works. Adoption by INRENA of the Operations Manual is a condition for Grant
effectiveness.
Sub-Projects Operations Manual:
Key beneficiary and subproject elegibility criteria as well as subproject processing procedures are already
present in the OM to be agreed at negotiations. Preparation and approval by the World Bank of a Sub Projects
Operations Manual to be edited and translated for beneficiaries' use will be a condition for disbursement of
funds for Proiect Component 2 Sustainable Use of Biodiversity.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
The monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be the responsibility of the INRENA M&E Unit to be
established under the project. Monitoring will be carried out in accordance with an agreed upon Monitoring
Plan to be included in the project's Operation Manual. Progress will be measured against the project's Logical
Framework Matrix and performance indicators by component and activity. Baseline activities, establishment of
data bases and training of INRENA M&E staff, will be subcontracted to consultants.
Operating Plans and Budgets:
An Annual Operational Plan and Budget (AOPB) for project year I has been prepared during appraisal .
Subsequently the SIU will prepare yearly AOPBs no later than 15 December of each project year.
Procurement arrangements: (see Annex 6)
The CPT will be responsible for all project procurement in accordance with standard Bank procedures. Annual
procurement plans will be included in the AOPBs and submitted for consideration by the Bank. Procurement
will include: civil works, consultant services, goods and equipment, and training.
Accounting, auditing and reporting (see Annex 6)
The financial administration of the project will be the responsibility of the CPT, which will employ a qualified
financial manager and additional staff as required by Peruvian legislation for establishing SIUs in government
departments. An adequate financial management system at the SIU including staff, accounting system, internal
control and audit will be maintained throughout the project implementation period. The CPT will open a
Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. External audits will carry out annual
audits. They will be engaged at the beginning of the project with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
The auditors will be contracted for multiple years with the selection of auditors being a condition of
effectiveness. The opinion and related statements will be presented to the Bank within four months of the fiscal
year end. The CPT will prepare mid-year and annual reports for consideration by the SC and submission to the
Bank. Upon project completion INRENA will prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
- 10 -



Project Supervision
The project will be supervised by the Bank's Peru office. An project launching mission composed of the Task
Manager, a Procurement Officer and an Indigenous People specialist will assist INRENA during project
start-up, once effectiveness has been declared. The Bank's Task Manager, accompanied by skilled professionals
from headquarters, will supervise the project twice a year. Supervision reports will take the form of an Aide
Memoire to be signed by the Task Manager and the Director of INRENA.
Relation of project with other Bank funded projects in Peru:
The project will interface with two Bank funded projects: (i) the Indigenous People and Afro-Peruvian
Development Learning and Innovation Loan and (ii) the Participatory Management of Protected Areas, second
GEF Grant to PROFONANPE.
(i) Indigenous People and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development LIL This US$ 5 million LIL to be
implemented by the Secretariat of Indigenous Affairs (SETAI) of the Ministry of Women and Human
Development (PROMUDEH) will strengthen the organizational capacity of indigenous communities involved
in two intervention zones: the Alto Purus Reserved Zone and the Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone. It will
establish a Geographic Information System (GIS) at SETAI, provide training in management of entrepreneurial
and income-generating activities and fund pre-feasibility and pre-investment studies. In order to ensure
compatibility among the two projects a representative of SETAI will integrate the SC.
(ii) Participatory Management of Protected Areas Grant. This new GEF project -currently preparing
its Project Concept Document for Bank and GEF consideration- will focus on the consolidation of 10 to 13
protected areas, promoting the involvement of the private sector and civil society in the management of
protected areas. There will no area overlap between these projects, because the areas selected for the
PROFONANPE proposal are different from the ones considered in this one. The areas considered under the
proposed project are areas where civil society and the private sector are not yet interested for reasons of security
and isolation. The PROFONANPE proposal will focus on areas where private sector and civil society can be
easily mobilized and will include private sector, civil society and local stakeholders. It will promote
descentralization of conservation and protected area management, including the possibility of turning park
administration over to the private sector and making the system more financially sustainable. Both projects will
interface when it comes to lNRENA's institutional strengthening forM&E developed by the proposed project.
PROFONANPE will implement the designed M&E system in 10 to 13 additional areas. The PROFONANPE
proposal also considers strengthening 1NRENA's capacities regarding internal SINANPE communications and
extemal oriented aware ess and dissemination.
D. Project Ration e
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons fbr rejection:
The following were options considered but rejected:
a) Focus on non-protected areas.
This option was rejected because of its inherent weaknesses related to the lack of clear land-use rules and tenure
and lack of institutional enforcement capacities concerning natural resources management outside of protected
areas and because the project aims at strengthening the sustainability of conservation through indigenous
rarticipation in protected area management.
b) Establishing protected areas only under the strictest management regimes.
This alternative -which excluded the communal reserves- was rejected because, at present, communal reserves are
under-represented in the system, and respond to strong social demand. Establishing only protected areas with the
strictest management regimes, in most cases, would not be socially sustainable, would be more expensive to
execute, may involve displacement and resettlement, and would not directly support the objectives of increasing
- 1 1 -



the participation of local people as beneficiaries of biodiversity conservation.
c) A series of GEF mid-size grants to support activities within each conservation area.
This option was rejected bearing in mind the existence of economies of scale durng project implementation at
INRENA's level and the convenience of strengthening INRENA as a national institution in its capacity to develop
a national policy on participatory management on the basis of the experiences promoted by the project.
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).Includes GEF financed projects along with Bank ones.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project            im    (PSRe  Ratings:
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Indigenous People                 Indigenous and Afro-peruvian        S            S
Peoples Development Project
Natural Resources Management       Sierra-Natural Resources           S            S
Management and Poverty
Alleviation -PRONAMACHCS
Agriculture                        Agricultureal Research and         S            S
Extension project
Natural Resources Management       Collaborative Management for       S            S
the Conservation and
Sustainable Development of the
Northwest Biosphere Reserve
(MSP/GEF)
Natural Resources Management       Participatory Conservation and     S            S
Sustainable Development
Program with Indigenous
Communities in Vilcabamba
(MSP/GEF)
Other development agencies
Natural Resources Management       Netherlands: Forest
Conservation in the Central
Amazon of Peru
Natural Resources Management       Netherlands: Support to
National Strategy for Forestry
Development
Natural Resources Management       Netherlands: Reforestation and
Demonstrative Management of
Secondary Forests in the
Peruvian Amazon
Protected Area Management          European Union: Use and
Sustainable Management in the
Manu Biosphere Reserve and
National Park
- 12 -



Protected Area Management             German Cooperation Agency
(GTZ): Natural Areas
Protection Program
Protected Area Management             GTZ: Recurrent costs funding
in nine protected areas
Natural Resources Management          USAID: Sustainable
Environment and Natural
Resources Management
Biodiversity Management               USAID: Biodiversity and
Fragile Ecosystems
Conservation and Management
Biodiversity Management               UNDP: Conservation and
Sustainable Use of the
Biodiversity of the Amarakaeri
Indigenous Lands
Protected Area Management             WWF: Conservation and
Ecologically Sustainable
Development in the Manu
Biosphere Reserve
Protected Area Management             Finland: Machu Picchu Project,
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in Peru and elsewhere shows that: (i) the sustainability of protected areas is greatly enhanced when
local populations participate and benefit directly from their establishment; (ii) financial sustainability of managing
the protected areas by the government has to be ensured by continual funding of recurrent costs; (iii) local
organizational capacities needs to be strengthened; (iv) environmentally sustainable activities that also provide
economic benefits need to be offered as an alternative to practices that encourage indiscriminate use of natural
resources.
3.1  The Peruvian Amazon Region contains numerous indigenous groups who have expressed their desire to
ensure the maintenance of forest integrity through conservation and the promotion of development options that
maintain forest cover to the greatest possible extent.' Therefore, directly incorporating indigenous groups in the
management of these protected areas builds upon the synergistic potential brought about by two complementary
objectives: biodiversity conservation and indigenous people's right to self-determination. Peruvian legislation
recognizes this approach through several management categories of protected areas, including communal reserves,
national reserves, and the clustering of various categories within a biosphere reserve model.
3.2 Progress towards achieving the sustainability of the present system has been adequate, with increased budget
allocations by the central government and the growing role of PROFONANPE in transferring funds to finance
recurrent costs. The system now has a total of 52 areas, most of which have permanent presence and enjoy some
form of management (the Alto Purus Reserved Zone, is of very recent creation and still lacks any state presence);
39 of these areas have a Protected Area Director on the ground. It is widely recognized, however, that additional
efforts are required to achieve effective management for the entire system, including further state funding and
creative altematives of resource self generation and private investmnent in conservation and sustainable
management of protected areas and natural resources. This project's design includes INRENA's commitment to
- 13-



fund 50% of personnel and operational costs during the life of the project, and to assign enough budget allocations
as to absorve key personnel and activities at the end of the project.
3.3 The project includes strategies and activities designed to strengthen local indigenous capacities to participate
in protected area management and surveillance and to implement natural resources sustainable use initiatives.
3.4  Economic activities from sustainable natural resource use in protected areas have helped to strengthen
conservation efforts by: (i) providing funds for recurrent costs; and (ii) providing economic benefits and incentives
to those living within the confines of protected areas to participate in conservation. The Manu National Park has
reached a level of funding of recurrent costs and substantial progress towards social sustainability through direct
community involvement in management. The Machiguenga within Manu have created a lodge, where tourists can
come and visit the park. This lodge is one example of how eco-tourism and other sustainable activities can benefit
local populations involved in conservation. From the perspective of biodiversity conservation, however, the system
is incomplete and additional protected areas need to be created in accordance with the Master Plan of the Protected
Areas System.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
During project reparation, the GoP has given clear indications of its commitment through the creation and later
expansion of the Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone, the creation of the Gueppi and Alto Puras Reserved Zones,
and the drafting of the Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve Master Plan. Similarly, the GoP and INRENA have stated
their will to commit the resources necessary for this project to be properly implemented. Also, INRENA, the
executing agency, has been leading the process of protected area expansion and consolidation and has also
promoted a participatory process to draft the regulations of the Protected Areas Law. In this process, INRENA has
benefited from the technical and financial assistance of donor agencies.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
World Bank support is warranted for several reasons: (i) The Bank has a good understanding of the sector in Peru,
through the execution of successful conservation and natural resources management projects including the initial
PROFONANPE GEF Grant; the Natural Resources Management and Poverty Alleviation in the Peruvian Sierra
Project, executed through PRONAMACHCS; and NGO projects supported by GEF mid-size grants; (ii) The Bank
has conducted sector work related to indigenous peoples needs and rights, that resulted in the recently approved
LIL; (iii) The Bank has conducted extensive participatory exercises with indigenous peoples as part of its sector
work; (iv) The Bank has technical capacity for project preparation and supervision and has also developed linkages
with SETAI, INRENA, PROFONANPE, and the Consejo Nacional del Ambiente (CONAM) as well as with
national and international NGOs such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and indigenous organizations and
communities.
GEF support is warranted because of the global significance of the Peruvian Amazon Region as a site of high
biodiversity.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
The project's activities are expected to generate the following benefits: (a) biodiversity conservation and its
sustainable use; (b) stronger govermnental and community institutional capacity to formulate and implement
indigenous managed biodiversity conservation; (c) income for indigenous communities from intellectual property
remittances related to genetic resources and indigenous knowledge; (d) increased income from sustainable
- 14 -



harvesting of non-timber products, eco-tourism, and other sustainable activities related to biodiversity. The
incremental costs of generating the global benefits from conservation of globally significant biodiversity is
estimated at US$ 10 million. Details of the incremental cost analysis are provided in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N/A
Fiscal Impact:
The net fiscal impact over the project period is estimated at US$1,400,000. The net incremental costs of INRENA
over the project period will be about US$3.14 million, of which a large part will have to be financed in the last two
years. This amount is compensated by the estimated US$1.74 million of value added and income taxes the grant
expenditures should generate. In the years after the project, recurrent management costs of the five areas are
estimated at about US$850,000 per year. This assumes that the communities will have become aware of the need
for better conservation and carry out most of the protection in the conservation areas. This assumption is based on
existing cultural traditions through which community members volunteer work on a regular basis towards
achieving community goals. The conservation areas may also generate some taxes on tourism revenue. Another
possible source of financing of recurrent conservation expenditures is PROFONANPE, which has several trust
funds to finance conservation management costs.
3. Technical:
The project design is technically sound and has taken into consideration experiences from other countries along
with lessons learned from Bank and other intemationally funded projects. The design is built on: (i) collaborative
mechanisms; and (ii) beneficiary participation co-financing and ownership. There will be collaboration with the
Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian People Development project, which will operate training programs addressed to
public officials at the national level, will promote an overall review of Peruvian legislation to ensure that
indigenous rights are properly addressed, and will implement field activities in Alto Purus and Santiago-Comaina
protected areas. Experience gained in Peru and elsewhere corroborates that sub-projects identified and managed by
indigenous communities themselves have a greater chance to succeed than those imposed from outside. The design
of the Sustainable Use of Biodiversity component has taken into account lessons leamed in similar projects by
incorporating participatory mechanisms in sub-project identification, management and administration. A number
of feasible investments were identified during project preparation and small-scale indigenous projects assessed.
The design of the Monitoring and Evaluation component -which was drafted by WWF during project preparation-
reflects the considerable experience gained by WWF in designing and implementing similar systems in other
locations.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project implementation arrangements will require the establishment within INRENA of a Special Implementation
Unit (SIU) in order to provide the project with legal, administrative and technical autonomy in accordance with
Peruvian legislation, and to ensure project management effectiveness. INRENA is a normative institution of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Its management procedures are in many instances cumbersome, legalistic and
non-operational especially at the field level, but in recent years, with intemational donor support and contributions
made by PROFONANPE, implementation capacity has improved and a drive towards intemal decentralization has
been launched. The establishment of the SIU is part of such process and greatly reduces the risk of management
inefficiencies as the Central and Field project teams will have sufficient authority to operate in an autonomous
manner. The establishment of the SIU and the selection of key personnel is a condition of vroiect effectiveness.
The indigenous communities have actively participated in the consultation process during project preparation.
- 15 -



Some indigenous organizations are institutionally weak and lack experience in participatory management of
protected area and in implementing biodiversity use related economic activities. Organizations will require
strengthening and technical assistance from the project. The project will provide training in participatory
management and the provision of technical assistance has been included under the Sustainable Use of Biodiversity
component. Indigenous umbrella organizations and NGOs will provide additional support. Given the innovative
nature of these activities and the challenges implied in fostering a new relation between conservationism and
indigenous participation, some substantial impact might be appreciated only after project implemetation is over.
4.2 Project management:
The Steering Committee and Zonal Coordination Committees will have major responsibilities for project
management. At the SC level, national indigenous leaders and representatives of public and private environmental
organizations who will be part of these policy coordination bodies do guarantee stakeholder involvement. At the
local level, grassroots indigenous representatives will form the ZCC. During appraisal INRENA suggested that the
role of Local Project Coordinator be assumed by the INRENA appointed Protected Area Chief in each of the areas
of project intervention. This proposal ensures that there will be no conflicting views between two authorities
operating under the same institution and in similar geographic areas. INRENA will partially and increasingly
assume the cost of the project's staff.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues relate to: (i) the absence of past experience of the SIU as an implementing agency for Bank
supported projects; and (ii) the difficulties to be faced at the zonal level to implement competitive procedures for
the procurement of goods and services.
The establishment of the SRI is a condition for effectiveness. Most goods and services will be procured at the
central level; locally, prudent shopping procurement will be followed, under close supervision of the CPT.
4.4 Financial management issues:
INRENA's financial management systems have been succesfully assessed by a Bank financial management
specialist. Disbursement procedures to sub grant beneficiaries, to take place only in the second year of project
implementation, will be spelled out in the Sub Grants Operational Manual which is a condition for disbursement
of this category.
5. Environmental:                    Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project has been designed to have a positive impact on the environment. Activities, which are not explicitly
allowed in Area Management Plans and in the specific zoning regulations established for each protected area, will
not be funded. Biodiversity subprojects will have to meet specific environmental criteria to filter out any potential
damaging activities. Sub-grant proposals will be appraised based on the selection criteria to be detennined in the
Sub Project Operations'Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
- 16 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
6.1 Key social issues and social development objectives
a) Social issues were addressed during project preparation: (i) participation; (ii) ownership and (iii) gender.
(i)    Participation. Experience in Peru and elsewhere has demonstrated that rural and natural resource
development projects have a greater potential for success when they are participatory in nature from the
identification and design stage through to execution and ex-post evaluation. This project has benefited from the
extensive social assessment and legal analysis sector work done during preparation of the Indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development project (LIL). During Block B preparation a highly decentralized and
participatory consultation process was undertaken. Indigenous communities were consulted in regards to their
present needs and their vision of the future. Concrete suggestions were made which have been taken into account
in the final design of the project.
(ii)    Ownership. As with participation, ownership of project initiatives is essential for achieving success in the
implementation of project activities. The mechanisms envisaged for implementing biodiversity use investments
ensures that beneficiary groups will have ownership of their initiatives as they will identify, with project support,
feasible economic activities and carry them out with technical assistance to be provided by the project. The project
will assist beneficiary organizations in identifying technical assistance sources and guide them contracting the
services they require and supervising the provision of assistance services.
(iii)    Gender. Distinguishing the different roles and responsibilities of men and women in natural resource
management especially among indigenous groups is also essential. Indigenous women were included during the
consultative process for this project and during preparation of the Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples
Development Project. A targeted consultation was undertaken during which gender-specific issues were raised and
distinct recommendations made. Main recommendations relate to (i) guaranteeing the presence of indigenous
women representatives in project management bodies (ii) inclusion of indigenous women in training programs;
(iii) provision of sub-grants to indigenous women groups for them to carry out natural resource use activities in
which women have a predominant role such as cultivating and marketing medicinal plants and handicrafts.
b) Collaboration with NGOs and other civil society organizations
During Block B preparation local and international NGOs were fully involved and will continue to actively
participate in project implementation. Representatives of indigenous umbrella organizations and environmental
organizations such as National Environmental Society (SNA) and the local chapter of the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) will be represented in the Project's Steering Committee.
c) Institutional arrangements to ensure social development objectives
Institutional arrangements ensure that the social development objectives of the project will be achieved. The
essential participatory mechanisms envisaged guarantees that indigenous representatives are involved in project
planning, implementation and monitoring. Sub-grants to beneficiary organizations to undertake biodiversity use
initiatives including pre-investment and provision of technical assistance will have an impact on living conditions
and income-generation leading to better living conditions for beneficiary groups.
- 17 -



d) Performance monitoring of social development outcomes
The proposed M&E system for this project includes establishing socio-economic indicators, creating a baseline
database and a socio-economic monitoring plan which will measure impact on the social and economic conditions
of the indigenous beneficiary communities in the project areas. Income and nutritional values will be ascertained.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a) Primary beneficiaries:
During project preparation, indigenous conmmunities were consulted through participatory workshops, and
commnunity assemblies. A total of 29 participatory workshops were convened involving nearly 500 indigenous
community leaders. Conmmunity assembles were held in 40 communities during which participants responded to
survey questionnaires and prepared situational maps using Participatory Rapid Appraisal techniques. Additionally,
10 indigenous leaders and technicians joined the project preparation teams in their respective areas. Consultations
were carried out using indigenous languages. The consultative process confirmed the general approach of the
project specifically in terms of the need to advance in the categorization of protected areas, establishment of
communal reserves and natural resource use contracts and concessions. Possible investments were identified and
monitoring issues discussed. The indigenous federations AIDESEP and CONAP were part of the Block B Board.
During project implementation indigenous people representatives will be included in the SC and ZCCs.
Beneficiaries will identify investment opportunities, manage investment sub-grants and participate in project
monitoring and evaluation.
b) Other key stakeholders:
Municipal governments, local NGOs, universities and other representatives of civil society as well as private sector
enterprises were also consulted. These stakeholders are important, as they are members by law of the PAMCs that
will be established with project support. Environrmental public sector institutions and NGOs were part of a Block B
specially established Board and will continue to be represented in the SC.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During Block B preparation local and intemational NGOs were fully involved and will continue to actively
participate in project implementation. Representatives of indigenous umbrella organizations and environmental
organizations such as National Environmental Society (SNA) and the local chapter of the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) will be represented in the Project's Steering Committee.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements ensure that the social development objectives of the project will be achieved. The
essential participatoTy mechanisms envisaged guarantees that indigenous representatives are involved in project
planning, implementation and monitoring. Sub-grants to beneficiary organizations to undertake biodiversity use
initiatives including pre-investment and provision of technical assistance will have an impact on living conditions
and income-generation leading to better living conditions of beneficiary groups.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The proposed M&E system for this project includes establishing socio-economic indicators, creating a baseline
database and a socio-economic monitoring plan which will measure impact on the social and economic conditions
of the indigenous beneficiary communities in the project areas. Income values will be ascertained.
- 18 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                        Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                  0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                          0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                           * Yes O  No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                         * Yes O  No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          * Yes O  No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                    0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                     0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project is consistent with national land use and environmental planning initiatives, conservation strategies and
legislation. It will assist in preserving and managing intact forest areas by providing effective management and
enforcement in new and existing protected areas.
The project faces no resettlement issues either from a physical nor income displacement point of view. No
population will be displaced in the process of establishing a new protected area and the populations' incomes will
not be affected by conservation activities.
In El Sira, 93 out of the existing 100 native communities are properly titled. The 7 that remain to be titled do not
have standing nor potential conflicts with the proposed communal reserve in terms of land rights; and the proposed
categorization of the area as a communal reserve assures them exclusive access and the continuity of their
traditional sustainable extractive practices, avoiding the emergence of resettlement issues.
In Gueppi, the 6 native communities are properly titled. There are 3 other settlements (a mixture of colonists and
voluntarily reallocated indigenous families) which do not have traditional lands nor have initiated legal procedures
to denounce and title new ones. The categorization of the current Reserved Zone will respect the titled lands along
the river basin, create a communal reserve west of the tiled lands (where traditional sustainable indigenous
practices will be allowed and protected from other users) and create a national reserve further inland. Again, no
resettlement issue will arise because the communal reserve (where indigenous communities will maintain
traditional uses of natural resources) will behave as a buffer between the titled lands and the stricter conservation
area.
In Santiago-Comaina all native communities are titled and have agreed with LNRENA not to establish protected
areas of any nature which may include such titled lands, avoiding the risk of an overlap of property rights. In
Purus, all 25 native communities are titled. The creation of a communal reserve is considered, where these
communities will have exclusive access.
Regarding the Mascho Piro populations, in the southern area of the Purus Reserved Zone, the project will respect
their choice to establish no contacts with non indigenous peoples, and will not contact them for education, health,
titling or any other matter.
In Pacaya-Samiria, there are around 300 communities, with lands inside and outside of the national reserve
boundaries (defined by the Pacaya and Samiria rivers), all lacking titles. The agreement here is to provide these
communities with natural resources use contracts to assure and formalize their access to resources inside the
reserve and to title their lands north of the Samiria and south of the Pacaya, that is north and south of the Reserve.
- 19 -



It has been agreed during negotiations that the Govermment before establishing the proposed El Sira Protected Area
or recategorizing any other Project Protected Area will review, in consultation with the appropriate agencies, any
land claims of the respective indigenous communities under Peruvian laws and determine any measures necessary
or advisable to regularize their legal status, and to finalize the land titling process. It will also take the
measures determined above to regularize the legal status of the indigenous commnunities, and to finalize the
land titling process and provide adequate compensation to the affected indigenous communities for any
restriction on the use of land, or access to natural resources, arising from the establishment of the proposed
El Sira Protected Area or the recategorization of any other protected area. Such compensation will be
made through access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning opportunities.
The Government will set the boundaries of the project protected areas so established or recategorized
outside the boundaries of any lands titled to, or claimed by, indigenous communities.
The Government will prior to carrying out any of the activities above furnish to the Bank an action plan for
its review and approval; and thereafter, carry out the action plan approved by the Bank.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long term sustainability of project outcomes is highly probable due to an enabling policy environment which
encourages the use of participatory planning in project implementation. Important responsibilities for protected
area management and co-management will rest with indigenous communities, who will use traditional community
structures of participation by members of the community for surveillance, enforcement and management. This
assumption is sustainable as long as: (i) the project responds to the desires of indigenous peoples in the Peruvian
Amazon Region; (ii) the legal framework for protected areas restricts non-sustainable use, and; (iii) recurrent costs
are manageable within Government's fiscal capabilities. Also, the GoP has expressed strong commitment to
provision the basic resources needed to cover the recurrent costs of protected areas as well as to channel to these
same areas additional foreign aid resources.
The recurrent management costs of the five protected areas is estimated at US$850,000 per year. Pacaya-Samiria's
recurrent costs are already covered with fiscal resources and donor's support, and INRENA has also allocated
resources to meet basic requirements of control and supervision in Gueppi (where a Reserved Zone administration
is already in place) and Santiago-Comaina. Similarly, INRENA has expressed it's commitmnent to allocate
resources to initiate activities in the recently established Alto Purus Reserved Zone. There is strong confidence that
funds to cover these costs will be maintained, and that additional funds for the protected areas to be created will be
forthcoming. There is commitment on the part of the Government to support the recurrent project costs, expressed
in its agreement to assume 50% or personnel and operating costs in he life of the project, and 100% of it after
project implementation. The promotion of partnerships between local government agencies and indigenous
organizations within the framework of common zonal operation plans will free up some funds for management of
the conservation areas.
Also, income will be generated from the successful development and implementation of sub-projects. And the
cumulative effect of local participatory processes and dialog with government will increase the likelihood of
continued support for community based natural resources management and biodiversity conservation. Finally,
sustainability is also assured by the increasing amount of funds that PROFONANPE is channeling to SINANPE
through a variety of projects and financial mechanisms.
The project contributes to both long term socio-cultural and socio-economic development of indigenous
communities by strengthening local capacity to manage natural resources which are abundant but still threatened.
The project attempts to encourage stakeholder involvement and ownership through the use of existing local
institutional structures and new consultative/decision maling bodies (Steering Committee and the Zonal
Coordinating Committees) created during project implementation.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of continued political will to create,  N      During project preparation, GoP has
categorize and manage protected areas in            demonstrated willingness to expand the system
targeted zones.                                     by establishing three new Reserved Zones.
PAMCs receiving insufficient powers to    M         Decentralization of some central powers to
influence PA management in a sustainable            municipalities will increase the likelyhood that
manner                                              PAMC will receive power; adequate training of
PAMC members will sustain the powers
Communities insufficiently aware of need  M         Project provides for substantial awareness
for surveillance or not capable of                  training and management training
implementing the surveillance system
Communities not willing to adhere to      M         Awareness training and participatory
management plans and zoning                         management will increase willingness to adhere
arrangements                                        to the agreed plans and zoning arrangements
Adequate consulting and technical          S        Continuity of project and other operations will
assistance services not readily available           attract capable consultants to remain in isolated
areas.
Not many biodiversity subprojects to be   M         Beneficiary and subproject eligibility criteria
implemented by indigenous people are                will be carefully designed and tested to ensure
feasible on technical, economic and social          technical, economic and social feasibility
grounds.
Few biological and socio-economic         M         Existing indicators will be tested and piloted to
indicators available for participatory              evaluate in how far they are suitable for
monitoring purposes                                 participatory use; experienced consultants will
be recruited to assist with the design and testing
Steering Committee becomes politicized    N         Appropriate balance between government,
indigenous representatives and civil society in
Steering Committee
Lack of counterpart funds                  S        INRENA commitment to gradually and
incrementally assume recurrent costs. Other
institutions (PROFONANPE) are in the process
of obtaining funds for protected areas
management
- 21 -



From Components to Outputs
Government does not remain committed to    N         Democratic processes ensure continuity in
biodiversity conservation and protected              policies and support to protection of valuable
area management                                      biodiversity and protected area management
Indigenous people's are not capable of     M         Training and technical assistance will be
implementing biodiversity investment                 provided to indigenous leaders who will
projects                                             participate in ZCCs.
Bidding process does not end up with a     S         Quality based bidding process to be
highly qualified firm/institution to                implemented/ terms of reference to be very
implement monitoring and evaluation                  specific and international consultants to be
system                                               contracted to help write the bidding documents
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversy may result from disagreements among indigenous peoples regarding the appropriate balance between
conservation and sustainable biodiversity use. The project will work closely with indigenous groups and their
representatives to ensure a high level of participation and consensus as management plans are developed and
approved.
A second possible controversial issue arises from the different interpretations and long term views that government
officials and indigenous leaders may derive from the notions of land and territory. Some public officials may
maintain a traditional view of land as basically and only an economic asset in the market, with no social or cultural
implications for the long term sustainability of indigenous communities. While some indigenous sectors may
understand communal reserves as the basis of indigenous territories, despite them being public properties. The
project will promote in depth discussion on these issues in order to reach long term consensus that can incorporate
the issues of indigenous lands and identities into the country's multicultural nature.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Project Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank has been adopted by INRENA.
2. Special Implementation Unit in INRENA has been established with adequate financial maangement systernx
including the selection of auditors.
3. A Project Coordinator and core staff acceptable to the Bank, have been selected.
4. Regulations to the Law of Protected Areas have been issued and are conducive to the participation of local
communities in protected areas and natural resources management, in line with the project's participatory
approach.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. The approval by the Bank of a Biodiversity Sub Project Operations Manual and adequate financial management
by Field project teams, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition for disbursement of funds under Category 4. Sub
grants.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
g 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Sub Projects Operations Manual
- 23 -



1, Compliance with Bank Policies
2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
alU other applicable Bank policies.
erbrou ck                  Teresa Senra for John Redwood      Isabel M. G0 ro
wram  Leader                 Sector Manager                    _     m       r
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustained ccntinuous       Improvement in indicators of  1. Poverty Assessment   Macro-economic stability
reduction of poverty by    poverty and extreme poverty.  2. Encuesta Nacional de
maintaining economic                                  Niveles Vida (ENNIV)
stability and improving access                        Statistics
to basic services
GEF Operational Program:
Operational Program 2      Population of native species   Annual Biological and  Resources and activities
Freshwater Ecosystems      loss is stopped.           Socio-economic Monitoring   correspond to stated goals
Reports                    Absorptive capacity of NGOs
and indigenous communities
Operation Program 3 Forest  Deforestation is stopped.  Annual Biological and     Resources and activities
Ecosystems                                            Socio-economic Monitoring   correspond to stated goals
Reports                    Absorptive capacity of NGOs
and indigenous communities
Global Objective:          Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE
To improve the conservation  1. Indigenous people     Annual scorecards measuring Competent protected area
and sustainable utilization of  co-manage protected areas in  management effectiveness of  management staff, availability
forest ecosystems in the   the five target zones through  protected areas        of funds to cover recurrent
Peruvian Amazon through the their participation in the                           costs
involvement of indigenous    corresponding Protected
communities in the         Areas Management
management of Project      Committees.
Protected Areas.
2. Biodiversity loss,as   Annual Biological Monitoring Conservation and
measured by monitoring    and Evaluation Reports      participatory mechanisms
indicators, is stopped in five                        adopted by local inhabitants
target areas.                                         and beneficiary communities
- 25 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy  of Objective s        Indicators          Monltoln.h    E     tion |Crtica lAssumptions|
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1                                          Project Implementation     Continued political will to
Participatory Biodiversity                           Reports                    create, categorize and
Conservation                                         Project Monitoring and     adequately manage protected
Expansion, legal                                     Evaluation reports and     areas in targeted zones.
categorization and                                   Bank Supervision reports
participatory management of                          Mid-term Evaluation
SINANPE areas; area
facilities built and upgraded
and area stakeholders
participatory capacities
strengthened.
1.1 Creation and Perrnanent  15 planning documents
Categorization of Protected   (Master Plans, Public Use
Areas                      Plans and Management Plans)
for one new protected area (El
a) Preparation of planning    Sira); three Reserved Zones
documents.                 Santiago -Comaina Gueppi
and Purus) and one National
Reserve (Pacaya- Samiria)
b) Legal establishment of  One new protected area
protected areas.           established (El Sira) in PYI;
Three Reserved Zones
categorized in PY2 (Santiago
-Comaina Gueppi and Purus)
1.2. Strengthening
Participatory Mechanisms    Three PAMCs established by
PY2, Five PAMCs by PY4;                              PAMCs receiving sufficient
a) Establishment of PAMCs.  representatives of 200                              powers to influence PA
indigenous communities                               management in a sustainable
trained for participation in:                        manner
PAMCs.
- 26 -



b) Establishment of
Community Based protected
areas surveillance system.
Two protected areas
surveillance contracts signed                         Communities sufficiently
and system operating by PY3.                          aware of need for surveillance
c) Public Awareness and    Five Indigenous Community                              and capable of implementing
Environmental Education    Centers built and equipped.                            the surveillance system
Five public awareness
d) Analysis of Best Practices  campaigns implemented by
and Lessons Learned        PY5
Four regional workshops held
by PY5
1.3 Indigenous People
Training in Participatory  126 scholarships for
Mechanisms                 indigenous leaders
implemented by PY5.
126 intermships implemented
by PY5
1.4 Provision of Local
Infraestructure            5 Park Management
Facilities; 6 Interpretation
Centers; 13 Park Control
Posts; minor infrastructure
built or refurnished. 5
indigenous community centers
built; trails maintained;
equipment purchased.
1.5 Strengthening of Field
Project Teams and Zonal    Local INRENA teams
Coordinating Committees    strengthened to implement
project activities and local
participatory mechanisms in
place with permanent
indigenous participation.
- 27 -



Component 2
Sustainable Uses of
Biodiversity
Economically, socially and
environmentally sound use of
natural resources in and
around protected areas.
2.1 Management Plans for    15 plans prepared; 10    Implementation Progress    Indigenous communities
Titled Indigenous Land    implemented by PY4.        Reports                    willing to adhere to
management plans and
2.2 Community Natural      60 contracts awarded by PY5. Bank Supervision Reports    zoning agreements
Resource Use Contracts
Mid- term Evaluation Report
2.3 Demand and Market      S0 market and demand studies
Studies                    carried out by PY5.
2.4 Biodiversity Investment
Sub-grants
a) Pre-investment studies  220 pre-investment studies    Monitoring reports     Adequate consulting services
implemented between PY2                              are available to assist
and PY4.                                             communities in subproject
preparation
b) Investment Sub-grants   123 sub-grants awarded by    Contract documents between  Biodiversity subprojects are
PY4; 50% successfully     FPT s and communities      feasible on technical,
implemented by PY5.                                  economic and social grounds
c) Technical Assistance    100 technical assistance                             Appropriate technical
contracts implemented by                             assistance sources are
PY5.                                                 available
d) Analysis of Best Practices
and Lessons Learned        Four regional workshops
implemented by PY5
- 28 -



Component 3
Monitoring and Evaluation
System
Participatory monitoring and                                                    Biological and
evaluation system based on                                                      socio-economic indicators
quantitative and qualitative                                                    suitable for participatory
indicators established and                                                      monitoring purposes
operating adequately.
3.1 Analysis of Biodiversity   Compendium of secondary    Monitoring and evaluation
Conservation and           information for five areas in  reports
Socio-economic Conditions   PYI and biological and
socio-economic indicators.    Project Reports
3.2 Biological and         Evaluation protocols and  Bank Supervision Reports
Socio-economic Databases   standards and analytical tools
in PYI .                  Mid- term Review Report
GIS data layer formats and
fauna and flora maps in PYl.
Baseline studies prepared in
PYI.
I web site developed and
maintained in PYl.
3.3 Monitoring of Biological  Five annual status reports of
and Socio-economic         acceptable quality prepared
Indicators
3.4 Monitoring of Area     Five annual status reports of
Management Effectiveness   acceptable quality prepared
3.5 Training and Technical  Workshops and person
Assistance                 months of technical assistance
Component 4
Project Implementation
INRENA management          Steering Committee has    Project reports            Availability of counterpart
capacity increased.        provided leadership to project Bank Supervision Reports   funds
implementation.           Mid- term Evaluation Report
4.1 Project national                                 Financial Audit reports
coordination mechanisms.                             GEF external evaluations
SIUJ established at the                              Steering Committee does not
DGANPFS level, staffed with                          become politicized
highly qualified people and
4.2 Project Special        operating adequately
Implementation Unit        DGANPFS has enhanced
capacity to address legal,
social/indigenous and gender                         Continuity in the management
4.3 Technical Assistance   issues related to protected area                     and staffing of INRENA and
management and enhanced                              the SIU
M&E capacities.
- 29 -



Hierarchy of ObjecEtis                                                 u- Mn   & E  v i  Critical A ssumptio
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget.for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
ProjectComponents/
Sub-components
1. Participatory Biodiversity Participatory Biodiversity
Conservation (US$9.24 M)  Project implementation     Government remains
Conservation                                         reports                    committed to biodiversity
Supervision Mission Reports  conservation and protected
Creation and Permanent     1. Works                  Disbursement Reports       area management
Categorization of Protected   2. Goods               Project Management rReports
Areas                      3. Consultant services    Mid Term Evaluation
4. Training
Strengthening Participatory  54 O      costs
Mechanism
Indigenous People Training in
Participatory Mechanisms
Provision of Local
Infraestructure
Strengthening of Field
Project Teams and Zonal
Coordinating Committees
2. Sustainable Uses of
Biodiversity               Sustainable Uses of
Biodiversity (US$7.75 M)
Management Plans for Titled
Indigenous Land            1 Sub grants                                         Indigenous peoples
2. Consultant Services    Project implementation     organizations able to
Community Natural Resource                           reports                    implement biodiversity
Use Contracts                                        Supervision Mission Reports  investnent projects
Disbursement Reports
Demand and Market Studies                            Mid Term Evaluation
Biodiversity Investment
Sub-grants
- 30-



3. Monitoring and         Monitoring and Evaluation  Annual biological and     Bidding process selects high
Evaluation System         (USS 2.0 M)               socio-economic monitoring  level consulting
1. Goods                 reports                    firms/institutions capable of
Biological and  2. Consultant services              designing and implementing
Biological and                                                                 participatory M&E system
Socio-econornic databases                                                      and training INRENA field
Analysis of Biodiversity                                                       staff.
Conservation Status
Monitoring of Biological and
Socio-economic indicators
Monitoring of Protected Area
Management Effectiveness
Project Imnplementation
4. Project Implementation   Project Implementation  Reports
(US$3.76 M)               Supervision Mission Reports  Availability of counterpart
Project coordination      1. Works                  Disbursement Reports       funds
2. Goods                  Mid Term Evaluation
Project implementation    3 Consultant services
4. Operating costs
Technical assistance
-31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.24 million
1. Participatory Biodiversity Conservation
The project will finance: (i) preparation of planning documents and the consultative process for creation of a new
protected area and the permanent categorization of three existing Reserved Zones as part of the National System of
Protected Areas (SINANPE); (ii) establishment of Protected Area Management Committees (PAMC) in the five
target areas; (iii) creation of a community based and managed Protected Area Surveillance System (PASS); (iv)
training in participatory methods for indigenous community leaders; (v) implementation of a public awareness
program; (vi) the construction and refurbishment of facilities (Park Management Facilities, Interpretation Centers,
and other minor infrastructure) in the project areas; (vii) specialists on indigenous affairs and monitoring
evaluation to be part of the protected areas administration and the provision to staff to be deployed to those areas of
the necessary office, transportation and communications equipment.
1.1 Creation and Categorization of Protected Areas
During project preparation the social consultation process and technical analyses underlined the merits of
incorporating a new Reserved Zone to SINANPE and assigning a definite category to three already established
Reserved Zones, bearing in mind that Reserved Zones are a transitional category within SINANPE.
The protected area to be created is that of El Sira, which includes areas of three departments of the Peruvian
Amazon region (Pasco, Huanuco and Ucayali) and covers an area of 613,813 has. It is representative of primary
forests in pristine conditions. The future Reserved Zone is threatened by gold exploration, overfishing and road
construction. Shipibo Conbibo, Ashanika and Yanesha indigenous people inhabit the area.
A permanent category will be assigned to: (i) the Alto Purus Reserved Zone, (ii) Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone
and Gueppi Reserved Zone, all established in the process of project preparation. A description of these areas is
provided in Annex 12. As a result of technical analysis and the consultation processes it has been initially
estimated that on the basis of the currently existing reserved status, different categories of protected areas would be
established. Within the Alto Purus Reserved Zone, options are to create a National Reserve and a Communal
Reserve. The Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone would become a National Park, a Protected Forest and a
Communal Reserve. In the Gueppi Reserved Zone a National Reserve and a Communal Reserve would be
established. In all cases, these initial technical recommendations and social agreements need to be further
developed during project implementation.
In order to complete this process, the project will finance: (i) preparing planning documents as required by
Peruvian legislation, (ii) implementing participatory consultative processes, and (ii) drafting administrative
resolutions and legislative decrees.
a) Preparation of planning documents. Four types of planning documents are required: (i) Master Plans,
(ii) Public Use Plans, (iii) Management Plans and, (iv) Resources Use Zoning Plans. All plans require
approval by INRENA after being drafted in consultation with local stakeholders. Master Plans include
zoning arrangements and information on coordination and participation mechanisms for the area. They
provide information on area potential for use of existing resources and possible economic activities, with
details on the manner in which the area will be organized and managed. Master Plans must be updated
every five years. Public Use Plans. These plans are an integral part of the area Master Plan. They provide
information on possible public use for recreational, scientific, educational and or tourism development of
the area. Site specific information, especially referred to construction of infrastructure, such as
- 32-



measures based on baseline information for monitoring and continuos recording of plant and animal
populations. Management Plans contain information on issues such as culling of native species,
eradicating exotic species, and restocking and or reintroduction of species as well as habitat restoration
measures. Preparation of these plans entails identifying the most significant biological resources in the
area, determining objectives and management strategies and outlining a biodiversity conservation plan as
well as the community consultative process for adoption of the plan. These plans detail information on: (i)
zoning proposals, (ii) existing natural resources in the area, (iii) potential risks to ecosystems, (iv) cultural
and economic impacts, and options for use of renewable natural resources by local inhabitants, (v)
potential benefits, including potential markets for existing renewable natural resources and, (vi) natural
resource management issues for the areas. Resources Use Zoning Plans These plans provide the technical
support for use authorizations to be given to indigenous peoples to pursue sustainable practices currently
under implementation.
b) Implementation of the consultative process. The preparation of plans will be participatory in nature.
Stakeholders will be consulted during the initial stages of the process. Their opinions and suggestions
recorded and taken into account in the drafting of final documents. Plans' drafts will be distributed to all
participants in a series of workshops to be organized to present findings and conclusions. The proposals
for the establishment of Conmmunal Reserves will be discussed with the participation of representatives of
already established communal reserves in Yanesha and Tamshiyacu-Tahuayo. Experience gained by
indigenous communities in these areas will be useful in advancing on the definition of the new Communal
Reserves to be created within the project area.
c) Drafting administrative resolutions and legislative decrees. Creation of new areas and their
categorization implies drafting numerous administrative resolutions and resolving legal questions.
Furthermore, Peruvian legislation also requires that proposals for new areas and categorization must be
consulted with sectoral ministries such as agriculture, energy, tourismn among others. The project will
finance the services of a legal counsel at INRENA to support this process.
1.2 Strengthening Participatory Mechanisms
Indigenous participation in management of selected protected areas will be ensured by: (i) establishing PAMCs;
and (ii) instituting community based and managed Protected Areas Surveillance Systems (PASS).
(a) Establishment of Protected Areas Management Committees (PAMC). The project will assist INRENA
in establishing these comnmittees which are required by the National Biodiversity Conservation Law and
the SINANPE Plan Director, and to ensure indigenous participation such committees. PAMCs include
representatives of all stakeholders present in the area including private and public institutions and grass
root organizations. Committees provide guidance in the management of the area proposing measures that
harmonize the use of natural resources with conservation objectives. Bylaws outlining PAMC mandates,
responsibilities and operational parameters . are presently being discussed. The project will provide
assistance to indigenous commnunity organizations to ensure their involvement. Subsistence allowance and
travel costs will be covered. Training in management aspects will be provided.
(b) Creation of Community Based and Management Protected Areas Surveillance System PASS). In order
to insure basic protection against illegal use of natural resources within the protected areas, the project
will provide funding to the area administrations for them to contract with local indigenous communities
the implementation of a surveillance system. Contracts will cover provision of equipment and subsistence
costs.
(c) Implementation of a Public Awareness and Environmental Education Program. In order to further
understanding of the importance of biodiversity conservation in the target areas, the project will finance
implementation of a public awareness program aimed at local authorities and the population at large. The
program will use mass media outlets in the project area and face to face communication methods. The
production of audiovisual and printed matter will be undertaken.
- 33-



production of audiovisual and printed matter will be undertaken.
(d) Analysis of Best Practices and Lessons Learned. In order to benefit from the experience of project
implementation, the project will finance four regional workshops (Santiago-Comaina, Gueppi and
Pacaya-Samiria, Alto Purus, and Sira) where the experience of project implementation at the target area
level, and recommendations for future action, will be presented and debated.
1.3 Indigenous People Training in Participatory Mechanisms and Methods for Protected Areas Management
The project will finance training of indigenous leaders in participatory approaches for area management. In order
to raise the level of awareness among indigenous leaders of project area communities, field visits to other Amazon
region communities where participatory approaches are being implemented will be organized. Young indigenous
leaders will be trained during the life of the project in short technical careers in fields related to biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. . It is estimated that 5 study tours will be organized and 125
scholarships awarded.
1.4 Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment to Protected Areas
The establishment, categorization and management of areas will require the construction of new facilities and or
improvement of already existing structures as well as the provision of the required equipment for area management
and communications. New operation centers will be built in Santa Maria de Nieva (Santiago-Comaina), Puerto
Bermudez (El Sira) and Esperanza (Alto Purus); improvements will be made to existing INRENA facilities in
Nauta (Pacaya-Samiria) and Santa Teresa (Gueppi). Five indigenous community centers will be built in the project
area. Funding will also be provided for the maintenance of existing trails in the selected areas. Boats, vehicles,
office furniture and equipment will be purchased. Minor field infrastructure will also be implemented in the five
target areas, exact locations will be determined by FPTs.
1.5 Strengthening of Field Project Teams and Zonal Coordinating Committees
The project will finance five Field Project Teams (FPT) to be established in the cities of Esperanza, Gueppi,
Santa Maria de Nieva, Puerto Bermudez and Santa Teresa. Each FPT will be staffed by: (i) a Field Coordinator
(the Park Chief); (ii) an administrator; and (iii) support staff. The PFTs will be responsible for field
implementation and coordination of project activities with public and private institutions operating in the
project area. They will be responsible for: (i) supervising the work of outside contractors responsible for the
preparation of master, public use and management plans; (ii) assisting local communities in the preparation of
funding proposals; (iii) supervising the execution of sub projects by beneficiary communities; (iv) preparing
annual operating plans; (v) supporting the work of each area's Zonal Coordinating Committees ZCC Core staff
will be appointed to the satisfaction of the Bank. The project will also fund the services of an indigenous
specialist for each Field Project Team.
The project will also fund the activities of Zonal Coordinating Committees (ZCCs), which will be established in
the five project implementation areas. These committees will be composed of: (i) the Field Coordinator; and ii)
representatives of the indigenous communities in the area. One of the representatives of the local indigenous
communities will act as Indigenous People Coordinator (IPC) being responsible for permanent liaison with
local groups. These committees will: (i) review annual operating plans; (ii) evaluate sub grant proposals for
sustainable productive investmnents submitted by local organizations; (iii) assess implementation of contracts
awarded for implementation of project activities; and (iv) ensure coordination of project activities with overall
participatory mechanisms within the area PAMCs.
- 34 -



Project Component 2 - US$7.75 million
2.     Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity
The project will finance: (i) preparation of management plans for titled indigenous lands; (ii) communal natural
resource use contracts; (ii) demand and market studies; and (iii) biodiversity investment sub-grants including pre
investment in natural resource use projects and technical assistance.
2.1 Management Plans for Titled Indigenous Lands
Peruvian legislation recognizes "native communities" as a form of organization of indigenous communities. These
comrnmunities have in most cases registered land titles. It is estimated that in the project area there are around 300
indigenous communities governed by legally recognized and traditional authorities. Currently, community
structures are weak and have limited capacities to exercise adequate control and assure sustainable management of
the natural resources in areas under their jurisdiction. The project will assist three organizations in each of the five
selected project areas by providing technical assistance and training in land use planning and zoning procedures,
design of community management plans for specific natural resources, and use of traditional knowledge for
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of the resources for community well-being.
2.2 Communal Natural Resource Use Contracts
The project will fund the technical analysis needed to grant use concession contracts to indigenous groups within
National Reserves. Peruvian legislation allows for use of natural resources within this protected area category. The
use of these resources needs to be established in the areas' Master Plans, approved by INRENA. Resource use
contracts will be considered by the Zonal Coordinating Committee (ZCC) in each area, based on a submission
made by local organizations. These requests will need prior approval of the area head and consideration of the area
PAMC based on the area Master Plan. Proposals will be identified by local communities who will submit a written
proposal including: (i) a detailed description of the economic activities to be pursued; (ii) an assessment of the
present situation of the resource to be put to economic use, (iii) a detailed budget calculation and economic impact
based on a cost benefit analysis; and (iv) the narnes of those responsible for implementation of the contract and the
legal status of the organization. Once the proposal has been considered by the ZCC, organizations will sign a
contract with the head of the protected area. The project will assist organizations in the preparation of proposals
and provide supervision during contract execution. During the preparatory process for this project local
communities identified economic activities related to the production of medicinal plants, traditional crop systems,
forest management, breeding and marketing of wildlife species and eco- tourism development. It is estimated that
30 contracts will be awarded during the life of the project. An average of US$20,000 for each contract has been
established. The first natural resource use contract is expected by August 31, 2001.
2.3 Studies
During Block B preparation a number of economic activities were identified and discussed with local inhabitants.
Notwithstanding, it is necessary to carry out further research on the economic potential of initiatives such as
captive breeding of wild fauna, forestry products, eco tourism, among others. There fore the project qill carry out
demand and market studies on the economic potential of proposals of indigenous communities for biodiversity
subprojects as well as studies on protection of property rights on biodiversity materials. The studies could include:
(i) legal protection of the Peruvian Native crops; (ii) sui-generis regime for the protection of the property of
intellectual rights of the indigenous communties' collective knowledge; and (iii) agreements regarding access to
genetic resources.
- 35 -



2.4 Biodiversity Investments.
The project will finance local investments which adhere to the Master Plan of the specific area and are socially,
environmentally and financially sustainable. The types of subprojects have been identified during project
preparation, and include inter alia: (i) captive breeding of wild fauna; (ii) non timber forest products; (iii)
traditional indigenous handcrafts using native materials; (iv) procesing of native medicinal plants using traditional
knowledge; (v) processing of food products; (vi) eco-tourism; and (vii) sustainable farming of native fish species.
The sub-project cycle -to be further detailed in an specific Subprojects Operations Manual which is a condition for
disbursement- consists basically of:
(a) Pre-investment This activity entails the provision of financial resources to local groups for the
identification and preparation of project proposals for funding by the project. Interested organizations will
submit a request for assistance to be appraised by the PFT and forwarded to the area ZCC for approval.
An average of US$5,000 has been determined for each pre investment study. Project proponents should
contribute 10% of total costs. It is estimated that 220 pre-investment projects will be financed during the
life of the project.
(b) Investment The project will provide the requesting organization the investment resources for those sub
projects that have been technically identified as environmentally, socially and economically sustainable as
a result of pre-investment activities. The project will fund 123 sub grant investments, at the estimated
average cost of US$20,000 each. Beneficiaries will be requested to commit 50% of the total investment
cost, for which they may seek co-financing from government and or private development agencies. This
co financing mechanism is a prerequisite for project funding.
(c) Technical Assistance The project will also provide funding for contracting technical assistance
services. Communities will include within the budget for investment the required technical assistance to
carry out the proposed investment. The project will fund 100% of technical assistance, with an average of
US$5,000 assigned per project.
(d) Analysis of Best Practices and Lessons Learned In order to benefit from the experience gained in
preparing, implementing and providing technical assistance to sub projects developed by the local
indigenous organizations, the project will finance four regional workshops (Santiago-Comaina, Gueppi
and Pacaya-Samiria, Alto Purus, and Sira) where the experience of sub project implementation at the
target area level, and recommendations for future action, will be presented and debated.
All along the sub project investment cycle, financial management will be the responsibility of the beneficiary
organizations. They will open an account and handle the resources, contracting out the pre-investment studies, the
acquisition of goods and services required for project implementation, and the technical assistance, providing the
FPT with narrative and financial reports as required in the corresponding contracts. The FPT will establish for
each target area a roster of qualified consultants and consulting firms from which beneficiaries will be able to
recruit the services needed for pre investment and technical assistance services.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.00 million
3.      Monitoring and Evaluation
The project will finance the design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for INRENA. The
system is based on participatory mechanisms and will be initially tested within the context of the project and
project areas of intervention. It can be later expanded to all SINANPE areas. The design of this component was
undertaken by the World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) during Block B, and has been refined during appraisal,
mainly in order to build INRENA's capacity to use the system for SINANPE as a whole. The proposed system is
multi-dimensional, addressing impact on biologc&al aned socio-ecoreneic rrocesses as well as institutional
a-: ._. ti) de>;eiop:ir.ent of a v  cai a 0ci SOc.O-eCkO)OrC  aas,imes aaiu datacases; iTi) design
and inpLemnencation of participatory biological and socio economic monitoring instrunents; and (iii) design and
- 36 -



implementation of instruments for measuring the management efficiency of protected areas.
3.1 Biological and Socio Economic Baselines and Data Bases
(i) Constructing biological and socio-economnic baselines. The baselines will be determined by following
evaluation protocols and standards established for implementation of the system. A preliminary biological
and socio-economic database structure has been developed during Block B preparation. Data will be stored
using a Geographic Information System (GIS) to be located at INRENA.
(ii) Collecting and organizing biological and socio-economic information. Biological information will be
organized taxonomically and according to single ecological processes. Threatened or rare flora and fauna
species and taxa of a high hierarchical level will receive special attention. Socio economic information
will include distribution of economic activities in community territories, occurrence of productive
activities over time and data related to community organizational structure as it refers to natural resource
use.
(iii) Designing habitat conservation monitoring plans. Threats to habitat integrity will be determined
including ecological processes.
(iv) Developing and maintaining georeferenced biological and socio-economic databases.
3.2 Biological and Socio Economic Monitoring
Biological monitoring is necessary to ensure that the conservation goals of the project are being met and that
community conservation plans and other activities are having a positive impact on the stability, size and biological
richness of priority habitats and species. Biological monitoring allows detection of changes in habitat stability and
species abundance. A key element to monitor habitat stability is through vegetation cover and land use analysis.
The other central component of biological monitoring is indicator species. Flora and fauna indicator species will
be selected for each project area based on representation and persistence analysis. Reproductive information on
these species will also be collected and analyzed
Socio-economic monitoring includes indicators to determine impact on the income and quality of life of local
communities the use of biodiversity resources on household income. Information will be collected by using a
structured survey administered to a statistically representative household sample.
3.3 Area Management Monitoring
In order to determine if effective management and co-management of areas is being provided an area management
monitoring system will be put in place. This will allow to measure strengths and weaknesses in protected area
management practices and determine improvements over time. A management score card will be used to measure
progress. The score card will provide informnation on: (i) legal status of the protected area, (ii) grassroots
participation, (iii) community leadership and governance, (iv) gender issues, (v) participatory organization and
planning, (vi) financial sustainability, (vii) management programs, (viii) environmental education and
interpretation programs, (ix) technical assistance, (x) information availability, (xi) biological and socio-economic
monitoring programs, (xii) formal and informal natural resource use, (xiii) infrastructure and, (xiv) biodiversity
threats and conflicts. The scorecard has been developed during Block B preparation by the Conservation Data
Center (CDC).
3.4 Training, technical assistance and operational support.
The project will finance technical assistance for developing and implementing the system and provide training to
INRENA personnel, project staff and community leaders in the use of monitoring tools.
- 37 -



Project Component 4 - US$3.76 million
4. Project Implementation
The project will strengthen the capacity of INRENA to manage SINANPE. It will finance: (i) the operation of
a coordinating body to provide guidance to project implementation; (ii) the staff and operating costs of a special
implementing unit, in charge of project implementation; (iii) additional staff costs of specialists on legal issues,
social/indigenous affairs, gender and monitoring and evaluation at the central level;
4.1 Project national coordination mechanisms.
Guidance in project implementation will be provided by a Project Steering Committee (SC). The SC will be
composed of representatives of the government, the indigenous people and environmental NGOs. The Director
of DGANPFS of INRENA who will preside the Steering Committee. The Government representation may
include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Foreign Relations, Presidency of the Council of
Ministers (SECTI), PROMUDEH (in particular SETAI), and other sectoral ministries. The representatives of
indigenous people organizations will be appointed by the Interethnic Association for the Development of the
Peruvian Rain Forest (AIDESEP) and the Peruvian Confederation of Amazonian Nationalities (CONAP). the
representatives of the environmental NGOs will come from the National Environmental Society, the
International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or other NGOs. An IBRD official may participate in
SC meetings as an observer. The SC will: (i) provide policy guidelines for project implementation; (ii) approve
core staff appointments; (iii) approve annual operating plans and budgets (AOPB); (iv) review annual project
implementation reports; (v) consider project implementation monitoring reports; and (vi) review annual
auditing reports prepared by external auditors.
4.2 Project Special Implementation Unit
The project will finance the establishment of a Special Implementation Unit (SIU) within INRENA. The SIU
will have legal, administrative and financial autonomy. The establishment of the SIU, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, will be a condition for grant effectiveness. The SIU will be composed of a Central Project Team (CPT)
and five Field Project Teams (FPT). At both the central and field levels, guidance to project implementation
will be provided by a SC and ZCCs.
The Central Project Team (CPT), will be staffed by: (i) a Project Coordinator, (ii) an administrative manager,
(iii) an accountant, (iv) a treasurer; (v) and support staff. Its main task will be to: (i) administer and manage
the project; (ii) ensure coordination of project activities with INRENA projects and programs and government
institutions involved in indigenous people issues; (iii) call for public tenders for implementation of project
activities in accordance with agreed upon procurement guidelines; (iv) establish, administer and supervise the
work of FPTs; (v) monitor and evaluate project progress; (vi) contract annual external auditing of project
accounts and represent the project before a Project Steering Committee (SC).
4.3 Technical Assistance
The project will finance the services of an legal, a social/indigenous affairs and a gender specialist, attached to the
DGANPFS at INRENA, to enhance its capacity to address a number of new issues arising of the process of
bringing in indigenous participation into protected area and natural resources management.
4.4 Project Monitoring
The project will finance a mid-term evaluation and an End-of-Project evaluation. These evaluations will be
out-sourced. Monitoring during project implementation will be carried out by the CPT and ZPTs based on
indicators included in the logical framework matrix in Annex 1.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Locall       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $millfion    US $million   US $million
Participatory Biodiversity Conservation                      8.39          0.46          8.85
Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity                             7.47          0.00          7.47
Monitoring and Evaluation System                              1.87         0.01          1.88
Project Management                                           3.57          0.08          3.65
Total Baseline Cost                                         21.30          0.55         21.85
Physical Contingencies                                      0.41          0.00          0.41
Price Contingencies                                         0.49          0.00          0.49
Total Project Costs               22.20          0.55        22.75
Total Financing Required               22.20           0.55        22.75
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $milfion    US $million   US $million
Works                                                          1.00           0.00          1.00
Goods                                                          0.67           0.38          1.05
Consulting Services                                            9.38           0.06         9.44
Grants for Sub Projects                                        5.57           0.00         5.57
Personnel and operation costs                                  4.68           0.11         4.79
Unallocated                                                    0.90           0.00         0.90
Total Project Costs      22.20           0.55        22.75
Total Financing Required      22.20           0.55         22.75
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 22.75 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 43.96% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Incremental Cost Analysis
Overview
The general objective of the GEF alternative is to support biodiversity conservation and its sustainable use in the
Amazon through the creation of new protected areas under communal management by indigenous peoples. The
GEF alternative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of approximately US$ 10.24 million.
Context and Broad Development Goals
The project will support sound and participatory protected area and natural resource indigenous management in
the Peruvian Amazon, as a strategy to alleviate rural poverty. The GoP commitment to this goal is expressed the
recent establishment of Reserved Zones in three of the five target areas of the project; preparation of the bylaws for
Law of Natural Protected Areas, and by the approval of the Master Plan for the SINANPE. In parallel to this
commitment, the GoP is also promoting a greater involvement of local communities, particularly indigenous
peoples in the direct management of protected areas to ensure equitable benefits resulting from the establishment of
communal reserves as part of an overall strategy for niral poverty alleviation.
Currently, the System of National Protected Areas (SINANPE) covers around 6.5 % of the Peruvian Amazon. An
expansion of the protected area coverage is required to maximize the chances for achieving long-term biodiversity
conservation from a landscape approach. In 1994, and with the support of GTZ and the NGO community, the
Government of Peru produced a Master Plan for the National System of Protected Areas. The Plan identifies new
protected areas that need to be established in order to achieve ecoregional representation and to protect the highest
priorities from a biological perspective. This "ideal" representative system would eventually include approximately
65 areas of national importance covering between 12 and 15 percent of the territory. The national system currently
includes 52 protected areas. Adding new areas to the system, however, must be done with caution, carefully
weighing the positive incentives of new political opportunities and commitment against the realities of institutional
management capacities that need to be strengthened over the long term.
Baseline
The expansion of the system of protected areas in Peru to achieve the long-term targets identified in the Master
Plan is limited by the lack of financial resources. Progress towards achieving the sustainability of the present
system has been good, with increased budget allocations by the central govemment and a growing role of
PROFONANPE in transferring funds to finance recurrent costs (Table below). The system now has a total of 52
areas, most of which have permanent presence and enjoy some form of management; 39 of these areas have a Park
Director on the ground. It is widely recognized, however, that additional efforts are required to achieve a level of
adequate management for the entire system, even though many areas are receiving adequate support from the
central government, PROFONANPE, international bilateral agencies, and NGOs. A few of them, such as the Manu
National Park, have reached a level of funding of recurrent costs and substantial progress towards social
sustainability through direct conununity involvement in their management affairs. From the perspective of
biodiversity conservation, however, the system is incomplete and additional protected areas need to be created in
accordance with the Master Plan of the Protected Areas System.
- 40 -



Year   Number of    Number of       Total Park    State    Allocation through    Allocation
Protected    Areas with a    Guards      Budget    INRENA (US$)          through
Areas     Park Director               Allocation                      PROFONA
(US$)*                           NPE
1991      39             10            60        163,400      Not available  _
1992      39             10            35        190,000      Not available
1993      39             10            70        264,500      Not available
1994      40             15           100        331,900      Not available
1995      41            22            120        634,891      Not available
1996      44            32            190        459,850      Not available      500,000
1997      45            35            220       1,399,627       430,000          1,700,000
1998      48            39            240       4,593,708*      410,000          2,400,000
* Includes resources from agencies other than INRENA that directly support park management activities
** Includes a large one-time buffer-zone project in the Tumbes Mangroves (Manglares de Tumbes)
The baseline situation, however, does not allow an expansion of the system with a concomitant achievement of
long-term sustainability from financial and social perspectives. The creation of new areas in this vacuum could
result in creating new paper parks without sufficient consultation and support from local communities.
Global Environmental Objectives
The Amazon of Peru is a part of the largest continuous forest on the planet, which includes 40 percent of all
remaining tropical forests of the world. The fact that it is the most important repository of biological diversity on
earth is undisputed. Given its strategic location in the upper watershed of the basin, Peru's Amazon contains a very
rich biodiversity expressed in termns of unique species richness, high levels of endemism, and habitat diversity.
Even though the region needs to be studied in greater detail, many areas in the Peruvian Amazon already hold
world records in terms of biodiversity richness.
The project will support conservation in least 9 million ha. of mostly recently created protected areas in the
Peruvian Amazon, while supporting greater management participation by indigenous communities as a strategy to
ensure social sustainability.
GEF Alternative
Under GEF support, the Government of Peru will be able to, in addition to implement the baseline activities: (i)
designate new areas for conservation and categorize recently created ones, incorporating indigenous communities
into the conservation effort through communal reserves, Protected Area Management Committees, or other similar
means; (ii) develop management plans and management agreements to transfer responsibility to indigenous
communities with assistance from INRENA; (iii) strengthen institutional and organizational capacity of indigenous
peoples to assist them in conservation and management of the communal reserves; (iv) develop pilot projects on
sustainable use of biodiversity to provide economic incentives for conservation; and (v) establish biodiversity,
socio-econoic and protected area management monitoring through a project M&E system. The total cost of the
GEF alternative is $19.17M.
Incremental Costs
The GEF is therefore requested to finance the incremental costs of creating and/or categorizing new areas and for
ensuring a meaningful level of participation in the management by local indigenous commrnunities in order to work
-41 -



towards the achievement of their long-term biological and social sustainability. The agreed incremental costs for
which GEF support is requested in order to achieve the global environmental benefits of the GEF alternative are
estimated at US$ 10.24 million.
Incremental Cost Matrix for GEF Funding
Component         Cost Category    Cost US$         Domestic Benefit          Global Benefit
Million*
1. Participatory      Baseline        $4.93      Incipient use of resources  Maintenance of forest
Biodiversity                                    by indigenous communities   cover and habitats in the
Conservation                                                                    short-term
GEF           $9.24         Empowering of local       Conservation and
Alternative                indigenous communities to  sustainable use of at least 6
use natural resources  million ha. of Amazonian
sustainably and to support     rainforest
their goals of
self-deternination
Incremental      $4.31
2. Sustainable Uses of   Baseline        $4.64          Incipient level of       Some biodiversity
Biodiversity                                       indigenous people's      conservation due to
organization at community  traditional use systems by
and national levels      indigenous people
GEF           $7.75         Greater capacity by     Greater opportunities to
Alternative                    indigenous people to     empower indigenous
manage and benefit from    communities to conserve
sustainable use projects      biodiversity
Incremental      $3.11
3. Monitoring and      Baseline        $0.71          Use of resources by      Some biodiversity is
Evaluation                                      indigenous people in the   conserved in the short-term
Amazon may not be      due to complementarities
sustainable          between indigenous
traditions and biodiversity
conservation
GEF           $1.99        Increase likelihood of     Sustainable use of
Alternative                 achieving sustainable use  biodiversity in the Peruvian
of natural resources         Amazon
Incremental      $1.28
4. Proiect Management    Baseline        $2.46                None                     None
$3.76          Opportunities for    Accurate understanding of
GEF                       promotion of successful    status and impact of
Alternative                 experiences of sustainable   management regimes upon
management of natural        biodiversity
resources
$1.30
Incremental
- 42 -



TOTALS              Baseline       $12.75      Use of natural resources by  Ecosystems and
indigenous people in the   biodiversity are conserved
Amazon allows for       to some extent due to
insufficient income    compatibilities between
generation and may not be   indigenous traditions of
sustainable in the       resource use and
long-term         biodiversity conservation
objectives.
GEF          $22.75       Greater opportunities for    Sustainability of
Alternative                  sound natural resources    conserving at least 6
management and poverty      million ha. in new
alleviation of indigenous  protected areas in the
communities          Amazon managed by
indigenous people.
Incremental     $10.00
-43-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
The project will become effective on April 2001.
Peru
Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon
Components by Funding
(US$ '000)
,___________________ _ |GEF  INRE*      | WB         Other      |Benef    | Total I      Dut &
I  $     %      $    %      $    %      $    %    $    %       $     %   Taxes
A. Participatory Conservation        4,308  46.6 1,571 17.0 2,287 24.7  1,076 11.6               9,242  40.6   799
1. Creat & Categor Prot Areas          598  73.9  141 17.4       -          70  8.6     - =        809          137
2. Strength Participat Mech          1,253  51.0  220  9.0  928 37.8    57  2.3          .    .  2,457          172
3. Indig Train Participat Mech         266  23.6   24  2.1  836 74.2          -    -       =    1,127            24
4. Prov Infraest Protec Areas        1,290  79.4  296 18.2       -          38  2.4        _    1,624           258
5. Zonal Project Team                  901  27.9  890 27.6  523 16.2   911 28.3            _    3,225           208
B. Sustainable Use Blodiversity      3,112  40.2   272  3.5 2,531 32.7   823 10.6 1,011 13.0  7,749  34.1   272
1. Community NRM Studies              490  50.91  110 11.4  230 23.9   123 12.8   11  1.1   963                  14
2. Demand and Market Studies           280  38.5   89 12.3  295 40.6    62  8.5  =            -   726            24
3. Managent Plans Indigenous Lands     240  47.4   66 13.0  145 28.6    46  9.0   10  2.0   506                  12
4. Pre Investment Studies              750  38.4           -  980 50.2   221 11.3             -  1,951           65
5. Investment Sub Grants               990  43.      1     -           -   287 12.7  990 43.7  2,267            114
6. Technical Assistance                362  27.1     8  0.61  881 66.0    85  6.4   =         -  1,336           43
C. Monit & Evaluat System            1,283  64.2  443 22.2       -         271 13.6      .    .  1,997   8.8   237
1. Monitoring & Evaluat System        953  66.7   205 14.3       -         271 19.0  =    =    1,429            205
2. M&E System Operat Support           330  58.1  238 41.9       -        -     -                  568           32
D. Project Implementation            1,297  34.5  849 22.6  183  4.9  1,432 38.1           _    3,760  16.5   432
1. Steering & Zonal Committees        229  54.4   192 45.6            .       .    . _        .   421            53
2. Central Project Team                636  63.0  373  7.0       -    -       -    -             1,009           95
3. DGANPFS Tech Assist                 432  18.5  284 12.2  183  7.9  1,432 61.5  -    =    2,331  -            284
|Total                           10,000  44.0 3,135 13.8 5,000 22.0  3,603 15.8 1,011  4.4 22,749   100  1,741
* includes INRENA's direct contributions + duties and taxes
-44 -



Peru
Indigenous Management of Protected Areas In the Peruvian Amazon
LocallForeignlTaxes by Financiers
(US$ '000)
INRENA         GEF            WB           Others   _     enefici.       Total
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
Foreign          55     .    447  81.6       30   5.6       16   3.0        -    -      548   2.9
Local (Exc    1,339 1        9,553  58.0   4,970   6.8   3,587  21.2   1,011   6.0  20,460  88.1
Taxes          1,741 100.0       . -.                 l                                1,741   9.1
TOTAL          3,135   9.1  10,000  53.5   5,000   6.1   3,603  18.8   1,011   5.3  22,749 100.0
-45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
The Special lnplementation Unit (SIU) to be established within INRENA will be responsible for carrying out
procurement under the Project.
1) Procurement methods: The methods described below and their estimated amounts are sununarized in Table
A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are established in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Contracts for civil works are minor and would be awarded through shopping procedures; an aggregate amount is
set at $1.20m. Individual contracts would range between $7,000 and $60,000. These include construction of new
facilities and/or renovation works at eight Park Management Facilities, seven Interpretation Centers and twelve
Indigenous Community Centers in the project areas. There would also be some maintenance works of existing
trails in the selected areas. Comparison of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers would be
required per contract.
Procurement of Goods
Goods include 4 vehicles, 18 computers, 28 motorboats, minor office equipment (radio, telephone, etc.) and
funiture. Contracts for vehicles and motorboats estimated to cost over $50,000 would be awarded through
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures; standard NCB documents acceptable to the Bank would be used.
Contracts valued at less than $50,000, up to an aggregate amount of $650,000, would be procured using shopping
procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank. No ICB operations are expected.
Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include monitoring & evaluation, technical assistance, studies, promotional services and
provision of training. Contracts for Monitoring and Evaluation activities estimated at over $200,000 would be
awarded through international competition using QCBS (Quality & Cost) procedures. Studies and technical
assistance for preparation of management of protected areas, design of master plans, assistance to the
community-executed investments and training services would include participation of private firms, NGOs,
universities and scientific institutions. Contracts valued at over $100,000, up to an aggregate of $600,000 would
be awarded on the basis of quality using Fixed Budget procedures. Contracts estimated at $100,000 or less would
be awarded, in cases of studies/technical assistance, through Consultants' Qualifications procedures and through
Least Cost Selection method, in cases of services of a straightforward nature that can be clearly defined. The
combined aggregate amount is set at $2,000,000.
Training services would include financing of training fees, rents, materials, meals and travel expenses for
participants.
-46 -



Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Investment Subhrants
The Project includes a US$1.7 million fund to finance initiatives proposed by communities. The amount of
individual initiatives would average US$30,000 and will not exceed US$60,000. Each individual subproject
budget includes 1/6th for feasibility studies and 1/6th for technical assistance. A subproject operations manual
indicating requirements and procedures applicable to the subprojects will be prepared and its submission is a
condition of disbursements for this specific disbursement category.  The manual will stipulate, in addition to
eligibility, selection criteria and conditions, the requirement that procurement would be done through comparison
of three price quotations to the extent that it is possible. The subprojects are to be community-executed; the
communities will be required to provide matching funds at a ratio of 1:1 for the investment components of the
subprojects.
The SIU would have responsibility to see that the agreed procedures for the investment subprojects are being
followed.
Operating Costs
The Project would finance Operating Costs that include salaries for core staff of the Central and Regional Project
Teams. It would also finance sundry items such as office rental, utilities, office supplies, fuel, communications,
transportation and other expenses related to the daily operation of the project. These items would be procured
according to shopping procedures to the extent that it is practical.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of
individual procurement actions, an Annual Operating Plan and budget for the Project will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank each year. Terms of Reference of all consultant assigninents not included in the annual
operating Rlan will have to be reviewed by the Bank prior to their contracting.
B) Assessment of the aeency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the capacity of a prospective SIU that would implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on March 8, 2000. This assessment
reviewed the organizational structure of the SIU to be formed, and included meetings with the INRENA's Project
preparation team, and its Administrative and Legal Departments. Recommendations on actions to be taken by the
Client include: (i) selection of qualified SIU core staff, with particular attention to the identification of an
administrative manager with experience in contracting; (ii) preparation of the Project Operations Manual; (iv)
preparation of standard documents for National Bidding; and (iii) presentation of the Procurement Plan for the first
year of implementation. The rating of risk assessment below may be revised upon satisfactory compliance of these
recommendations.
The overall project risk for procurement is High
Procurement activities would be carried out by a SIUT central team, which would have a high degree of autonomy
within INRENA. At the time of assessment the SIU central core staff had not been identified; however, its
composition, as discussed with INRENA, seems adequate to carry out the procurement/contracting activities
specific to this Project. The core team would consist of a Project Coordinator, an administrative manager who
would have procurement/contracting responsibilities, an accountant, a treasurer, and an assistant.
The SIU central team would manage and monitor procurement activities under the Project. As field teams become
operational in the Project areas, they would be delegated to carry out smaller acquisitions under guidance of the
-47-



central team.
Risks identified in the assessment relate mostly to the absence of past experience, since the SRU is to be created.
Considering that organization, functioning and procedure of procurement aspects will be contained in the
Operational Manual, its clarity and timely preparation, in addition to the qualifications of the administrator, is of
utmost importance. The Operations Manual has been presented to the Bank and appropriate staffing of the SIU is
condition of Grant Effectiveness.
To ensure SIU's adherence to the processes established for the Project, the Grant Agreement states that Bank
Guidelines only will be followed. In addition, standard provisions on discrepancies between National Law and
Bank guidelines have been included.
C) Procurement Plan
An indicative plaii for the 5-year period of project implementation has been prepared which provides the basis for
the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). A prelimninary Procurement Plan has been
prepared for the first year of project implementation; an updated Plan will be presented to the Bank by Grant
Effectiveness. Subsequent plans will be submitted yearly.
D) Freiuency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review it is recommended that one full supervision mission visit the field to carry out post
review of procurement actions every 6 months after project initiation. Such post-review field analysis should cover
a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed. This recommendation may be revised according to risk
assessment, as already indicated.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
__ _Ex_end_tui_ _i_     _E                           NCB.           O th er        N.B.F.      TotCo
1. Works                             0.00            0.00            1.20           0.00           1.20
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.99)         (0.00)         (0.99)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.40            0.65           0.20           1.25
(0.00)         (0.35)          (0.57)         (0.00)         (0.92)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00            4.80           5.20          10.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (4.43)         (0.00)         (4.43)
4. -,,ub Grants                      0.00            0.00            1.75           3.82           5.57
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.75)         (0.00)         (1.75)
5. Incremental Operating             0.00            0.00            4.51           0.47          4.98
Costs                               (0.00)          (0.00)          (1.91)         (0.00)         (1.9 1)
Total                             0.00            0.40           12.91           9.69          23.00
(0.0r'         (0.35)          (9.65)         (0.00)        (10.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
-48 -



v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Personnel refers to CTP and FPT staff in charge of project implementation; operating costs refers to office
rental, utilities, office supplies, fuel, communications, transportation and other expenses related to the daily
operation of the project.
- 49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value~ Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procuement              Prior ReVi
ExpenditureCategory        (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millons)
1. Works                        <100                   Shopping             First contract only
0.05
2. Goods                         >50                     NCB                First contract only
0.10
<50                   Shopping
3. Services: Firms              >200                    QCBS                  All contracts
0.80
>100                 Fixed Budget            All contracts
0.60
<100            Consultant Qualifications   First contract under each
&                     method
Least Cost Selection          0.15
4. Individual Consultant         >50           Per Section V of Consultants  Two contracts
Guidelines                0.15
>20           Per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines          Terms of Reference
only
5. Biodiversity Sub                                                        First Sub Grant only
grants
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$2.4 m.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be made over a five-year period. Effectiveness expected in April 2001 and a grant Closing
Date of December 31, 2006. An amount of US$250,000 of eligible expenditures made after October 15, 2000 may
be financed retroactively from the grant account.
A Subproiect Operations Manual and adeguate FPT financial management capacitv are conditions for
Disbursement for Expenditure Catezorv 4 (Sub Grants for Biodiversity Investments).
When Project Management Reports (PMRs) start to be produced, semi-annual projections will be the mechanism
for making disbursement estimates and measuring disbursement performance. The allocation of loan proceeds is
indicated in Table C of this annex.
Initially INRENA will follow the disbursement mechanism based on expenditures. It intends to move onto PMR
based disbursement by January 31, 2002. An action plan has been agreed upon with INRENA to this end.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$million            Financing Percentage
1. Works                                       0.79                            85%
2. Goods                                       0.73                            85%
3. Consulting Services, Training and           4.12               100% excluding identifiable taxes
Auditors Fees                       l
4. Sub Grants                                  1.75                  100% of disbursed amounts
5. Operating Costs                             1.71                    85% up to 12/31/2002
65% up to 12/31/2004
40% up to end
Unallocated                                    0.90
Total Project Costs                            o10.00
Total                               lo10.00              =
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Most grant funds are expected to be disbursed through Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) fonns. For all other
expenditures, e.g., contracts for (i) civil works valued at more than $60,000; (ii) goods valued at more than
$50,000; (iii) individual consultant contracts valued at more than $50,000; and (iv) contracts with consulting firms
valued at more than $100,000, full supporting documentation will be required until such time that INRENA
chooses to use the PMR based disbursement
Special account:
A Special Account in US Dollars will be established in a Commercial Bank, acceptable to the Bank. Until
aggregated disbursement amount to US$1'000,000, the Special Account will have an authorized allocation of
US$250,000. After such treshehold is met, the authorized allocation will be of US$700,000. The Special Account
will be maintained by the depositary bank in a way that satisfies the requirements listed in Annex A of OP 12.2.
Bank statements will show all transactions in and out of the account, including amounts advanced and reimbursed
by the World Bank, and balance at the end of each month. Under PMR-based disbursement, the maximum amount
in the Special Account shall not exceed US$1.5 million.
- 51 -



Accounting, fimancial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The SIU will employ qualified staff to keep
adequate records specific to the project and prepare the financial statements, and auxiliary staff to execute financial
operations and provide control over project assets. This system will have a double entry automated accounting
system comprising a general ledger and supporting subsidiary records (check register, joumal ledger). The account
structure used to record expenditures will comprise 3 classifications: the government budget classifications, the
component and sub-component of the project document, and sources of funds.
INRENA through SIU will develop and document the detailed procedures of all financial operations of the project:
cash receipts, disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and controls,
and reporting requirements and include these in the Operations Manual.
For the purposes of carrying out the project, deposits into the Special Account and their replenishments will be
made on the basis of cash withdrawals statements based initially on Statements of Expenditure and documentation;
later with the conversion to PMR, disbursement will be based on cash forecasts. Each of these reports would
show: (i) actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period, and
projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately
expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be
financed during the following six-month period; (iii) describe physical progress in project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under
contracts financed from the credit, for the period covered.
In order to begin disbursements, INRENA will have in place by effectiveness both the staff and financial
management systems satisfactory to the Bank, which will have undergone an assessment by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist. The capacity to produce quarterly PMiRs will be established by January 31, 2002.
External audits in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be selected before
effectiveness and contracted for a period of three years (extendable) including a non-performance clause. The
auditors will not only review the financial accounts but also the whole management structure and operation. And
they will audit the project during the whole year. The auditor's reports and opinions to the related statements will
be presented to the Bank within six months of the fiscal year end. In addition to the financial year end audit, four
quarterly concurrent audits will be conducted yearly to ensure acceptability of project financial management. All
supporting records will be maintained at the project site for at least one year after the end of the year in which the
last disbursement will take place.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       11                           26
First Bank mission (identification)              11/01/98                     11/01/98
Appraisal mission departure                      08/01/99                     03/29/2000
Negotiations                                     10/01/99                     01/09/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/2000                   04/01/2001
Prepared by:
INRENA
Luis Alfaro, Director DGANPFS
Jorge Alarcon, Consultant
Roberto Espinoza, Consultant
Preparation assistance:
WWF, Research Institute of the Peruvian Amazon (IIAP)-Iquitos, SETAI, AIDESEP, CONAP,
IUCN-Peru
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Carlos Monge                      Task Team Leader up to negotiations
Gonzalo Castro                    Biodiversity Specialist
Juan Martinez                     Social Development Specialist
Vivian Weiner                     Consultant
Pierre Werbrouck                  Sector Leader and task manager during and after negotiations
Carmen Palaco-Nielsen             Procurement Specialist
Paul Sisk                         Financial Management Specialist
David Varela                      Legal Counsel
Issarn Abousleiman                Disbursement Officer
Hugo Wiener                       Financial Analist
Santiago Sandoval                 Language Team Assistant
Gary Costello                     Project Design Consultant
Dario Pulgar                      Consultant
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Procurement Plan Year 1
2. Project and Sub-Projects Operation Manuals (under preparation)
3. Institutional Directory (Draft)
4. Reports:
Project Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation Plan (Proposed) *
Plan Maestro de la Reserva Nacional Pacaya Samiria (Versi6n Preliminar)
Informes Tecnicos Indigenas sobre el Alto Purus y la Reserva del Sira
Informe Final del Area Reservada Alto Purus y El Sira
Georeferenciaci6n de las Area Naturales Protegidas Santiago Comaina, Alto Purds, Pacaya Samiria, El
Sira, y Gueppi
Informe Final Componente Bioinversi6n Comunitaria
Aproximaci6n Biol6gica a la Zona Reservada de Gueppi, Santiago Comaina y a la Reserva Nacional
Pacaya Samiria
Diagn6stico y Propuesta Preliminar para las Areas Reservadas El Sira, Alto Purds, Gileppi, Santiago
Comaina y Pacaya Samiria
Informe Tecnico Final del Estudio Biol6gico de la Zona Reservada del Alto Purus y El Sira
Justificaci6n para la Ampliaci6n de la Zona Reservada Santiago Comaina hacia la Cordillera del
Campanquis y Margen Derecha del rio Morona
Aproximacion Social a la Zona Reservada Santiag6 Comaina, Giueppi y a la Reserva Nacional Pacaya
Samiria
Propuesta de Evaluacion y Seguimniento de la Conversi6n de la Cobertura en Tres Areas Naturales
Protegidas del Proyecto
Asesoria Forestal en Campo en la Zona Reservada de Santiago Comaina, Giueppi y Pacaya Samiria
Consultoria de Cooperaci6n Institucional y Financiera pam el Proyecto
5. Aide Memoires:
Taller Final de Planificaci6n Participativa para la Zona Reservada de Giueppi
Taller sobre Visi6n de Futuro de la Reserva Nacional Pacaya-Samiria
- 54 -



B. Bank Staff Assessments
Incremental Cost Analysis
Project Cost Analysis
Financial Management Analysis and Report
C. Other
1. Reports:
Estudio Justificatorio para el Establecimiento de una Zona Reservada en la Cordillera del Colin,
Departamento de Amazonas, Peru
Delirnitaci6n y Categorizaci6n Definitiva de la Zona Reservada de Giueppi
Informe Taller de Planeacion Estrategica con Enfoque y Cosmovisi6n Shipiba
Informe de Avance: Elaboraci6n del Plan Maestro de la Reserva Nacional de Gileppi
Informe Tecnico Final Sobre Diagn6stico Participativo de la Reserva El Sira
Estudio de Diagn6stico de los Recursos Naturales del ANPE Santiago Comaina y Mapa Base y
Fisiogrufico del ANPE Giueppi
Expediente Tecnico Zona Reservada de la Cuenca del Rio Alto Purds (INRENA)
Plan Maestro RNPS: Material Procesado de los Talleres Zonales en Huarnim Isla, Sapuena, Nueva
Esperanza y Esperanza; y de los Talleres Zonales en Montebello, Victoria y Manco Capac
2. Map: Capacidad de Uso Mayor de las Tierras de la Amazonia
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                                disbursements
Project 10     FY   Purpose                                         IBRO          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Revkd
P047690        2000 RES. & EXTENSION                                     9.60       0.00                             0.00       9.60       0.00      0.00
P060499        2000 Indigenous Peoples Oevelopment                       5.00       0.00                             0.00       5.00      0.00       0.00
P062932        2000 PE-HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM                            80.00       0.00                             0.00      80.00      0.00       0.00
P039086        1999 PE URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                             38.00       0.00                             0.00      23.27      10.54      0.00
P054667        1998 EL NINO EMERGENCY LN                               150.00       0.00                            81.00       4.37     85.37      85.37
P008037        1997 IRRIG. REHAB                                        85.00       0.00                             0.00      44.70      36.50     20.20
P042442        1997 SIERRA NATURAL RES.                                 51.00       0.00                             0.00      13.21       0.71      0.00
P037047        1996 RURAL ROS. REHAB & M                                90.00       0.00                             0.00       4.21       4.21      0.00
P008051        1995 LIMA vWATER Rehabilitation & Mgt. Proj.            150.00       0.00                             0.00      30.54      30.54      0.00
P008055        1995 PE-PRIMEDUC                                        146.40       0.00                            20.71      12.10      32.81      2.86
P008048        1994 PE-BASIC HLTHWNUTRITION                             34.00       0.00                             0.00       0.91       0.91      0.91
Total:      839.00        0.00                           101.71     227.91     201.59     109.34
- 56 -



PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000               Agrokasa                      6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Alicorp                      20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00   20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00
1979/83/90/93      Buenaventura                  0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
1997               Interbank-Peru               20.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   20.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
2000               Laredo                       15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Latino Leasing               10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00   10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1999               Milkito                       3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00
1984               Minera Regina                 1.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               PPF Cayman                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Paramonga                    22.00    0.00    0.00   23.00   14.18    0.00    0.00   14.82
1994               Peru Prvtzn Fund              0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00
1993/96/00         Quellaveco                    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00
1999               RANSA                        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               UPC                           7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1982/92/95         Wiese Leasing                 5.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94/99         Yanacocha                    20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               agroguayabito                 7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      147.32    18.37   23.50   223.00  112.50   18.33   23.50  134.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Peru OEH                     10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998              Wong                         25000.00   5000.00      0.00  60000.00
2001              Agroguayabito II              2000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               CAMSA                        2000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   39000.00   5000.00      0.00  60000.00
- 57-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PERU: Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon (GEF)
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Peru   & Carlb.   Income       Development diamond'
1998
Populatlon, mid-vear (millions)                        24.8       502       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    2,460     3,940      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       61.1     1,978      1,557
Averaae annual growth, 1992-98
Population M%)                                          1.7        1.6       1.1      GNP
Labor force (%)                                         2.7        2.3       1.5      GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                 per    r                     'enprimary
Povertv (% of Dopulation below national poverty line)   49
Urban Population (% of totel population)                 72        75        58
Life expectancy at birth /vears)                        69         70         68
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                40         32        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                8         8                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (X of populatlion)                  86        75        75
Illiteracy (% of oopulation ace 15+)                     11        13         14          -
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    123       113        103
Male                                                 125          ..      105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               121          ..      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997       1998
GDP IUSS billions)                            14.2     23.9      63.8       62.9
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 19.2     21.5      24.6       24.6
Exports of .oods and servicesiGDP             15.9     11.0       12.8      12.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    12.4     19.7      20.8       19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..       19.4      18.6
Current account balance/GOP                   -6.5     -8.3       -5.3      -6.0
Interest PavmentslGDP                          2.9      0.8        1.6       1.8      Domestic                    Investment
Total debtlGDP                                64.4     73.1       47.8      51.5      Savings
Total debt servicelexDorts                    53.0     13.3       31.1      27.3
Present value of debtUGDP                       ..       ..       43.6
Present value of debtexoorts                    ..       ..    294.9
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual orowth)
GDP                                   1.7      3.9      7.2        0.7       5.7                Peru
GNP oer capita                       -0.8      2.6      5.4       -3.0       3.7                Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of aoods and services         0.5      7.0     13.0        2.4       7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (V.)
1% of GDP)                                                                           40
Aqriculture                                   15.7     10.3        6.9       7.1      3
Industrv                                      34.6     33.4       36.4      36.7     30
Manufacturing                               20.8     23.4       22.9      22.0      20
Services                                      49.7     56.3       56.7      56.3    to
0            .
Private consumotion                           73.5     70.3      67.5       68.1    .10      93   94   95   n    97   as
General government consumption                14.1     10.0       11.7      12.1               -     GD1       0  GDP
Imports of aoods and services                 22.7     12.7       16.6      16.7     .
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    1.9      3.5        3.7       3.6    30-
IndustrV                                       1.9      4.4        9.0       1.5        
Manufacturing                                1.2      3.1        6.0      -3.0
Services                                       1.4      3.5        6.6      -0.9    la
Private consumption                            1.7      2.6       4.1       -0.2      o
General government consumDtion                 1.6      2.6        4.6       2.4       .          9    9    9e           O
Gross domestic investment                      0.8      8.3       12.7      -0.1    'o
ImDorts of goods and services                 -0.7     10.0       11.3      -0.1              -     Exportns    : Imports
Gross national Droduct                         1.6      4.4        7.3      -1.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 58 -



Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic odca                             11977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      80
Consumer prices                            31.2    85.8        6.5      7.0    60
Implicit GOP deflator                      35.7    83.9        8.4      5.4    40
Government finance                                                              20
(% of GOP, indudes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..    9.2       14.1     13.8             93   94   9s   96   97    9
Current budget balance                        ..    -4.7       2.2      2.9             -G OP deflator -       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..   -7.9        -0.7     -0.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  2,715      6,813    5,723    9,000
Copper                                      ..    562       1,096     391
Fishmeal                                    ..    223      1,031      777    6000 .
Manufactures                                ..    726      2,121     2,032
Total imports (cif)                          ..  3,215       8,552    8,199
Food                                        ..    438      1,302    1,315    3.000
Fuel and energy                             ..    237        780      579
Capital goods                               ..    987      3,011     2,760       0
92  93  94  95  96  97  9S
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      76        101       86
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      72        101       98              U Exports    Ulmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    105        100        B
BALANCEofPAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                            1977    1987      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services             2,131    3,508     8,354    7,531     0
Imports of goods and services             2,687   4,379    10,840    10,530
Resource balance                           -556    -871    -2,486   -2,999    -2
Net income                                  423   -1,221    -1,407   -1,454
Net current transfers                        ..  ..  485  665  -4 III" " '
Current account balance                    -926   -1,974    -3,408    -3,788     -.
Financing items (net)                       971     826      4,401    2,785
Changes In net reserves                     -46    1,148      -993    1,003    4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milons)        398    1,159    11,254    9,971
Conversion rate (DEC. locaeUSS)          8.38E-8  3.OOE-5      2.7       2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      9,171   17,485    30,496   32,419
IBRD                                      171    1,214     1,920    2,128                        A: 2,128
IDA                                         0       0         0         0           G: 7,4so  _: 0os
Total debt service                        1,136     481      2,936    2,452                                 D:2,520
IBRD                                       22      50       182       184
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            19      94       222
Official creditors                        586     292       963   -1,323
Private creditors                          17      79       373    1,772                                  E:11,486i
Foreign direct investment                  54      32      2,005    1,968         F: 7,930
Portfolio equity                            0       0       348      -369
Worid Bank program                                                              A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Commitments                                60       0       507        38     B - DIA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                              33      63       490       271     C - IMF                     G - Short-terml
Principal repayments                       10      31        65        64
Net flows                                  23      32       425       207
Interest payments                         13       19       117       120
Net transfers                              10      13       308        87
Development Economics                                                                                            918199
_ 59 -



Additional
Annex 11
Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES)
Background
A preliminary design for the project's Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES) component was prepared by the
World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in collaboration with INRENA, the Peruvian Center for Social Studies (CEPES), the
Center for Conservation Data (CCD) and indigenous peoples organizations represented by the Peruvian Indigenous
and Peasant Coordinating Committee (COICAP), the Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian
Rain Forest (AIDESEP) and the Confederaci6n de Nacionalidades Amaz6nicas del Peru. (CONAP). This
component was to be implemented by WWF within the framework of the WWF- IBRD Alliance. WWF was to
contribute approximately US$ 800 000 towards the implementation of the system. During appraisal the Regional
Procurement Advisor (RPA) questioned the convenience of a single source contract for US$ 1.2 to be the project's
contribution towards achieving component objectives and recommended that the Task Team revise the MES
component during appraisal. A number of options were suggested. During appraisal the Task Team discussed
component implementation issues with the Director of INRENA, concluding that the main elements of the
proposed design for the system should be maintained but they should be broken down so as to allow for
procurement of distinct elements over time. It was further agreed that the proposed system should serve as the basis
for use by SINANPE as a whole after a two-year implementation period. The project will strengthen the capacity of
INRENA to implement the system and establish a MES Unit at the central level.
Component Design and Activities.
During preparation, a number of preliminary M&E instrurnents were developed including drafts of: (i) biological,
quality of life and institutional strengthening indicators; (ii) biological and socio-economic database frameworks;
(iii) Geographic Information System (GIS) formats and (iv) a scorecard to monitor effective management of
protected areas. These documents are available in the project file and will serve as the basis for preparation of
Requests for Proposals (RFP) and tendering documents for the contracts to be awarded based on the decisions made
during appraisal.
Implementation of this component includes execution of four sub-components:
(i)    Analysis of biodiversity conservation status
(ii)    Preparation of biological and socio-economic databases
(iii)    Monitoring of biological and socio-economic indicators
(iv)    Monitoring of area management effectiveness.
(i) Preparation of biological and socio- economic databases. Existing information will be collected and
organized for each of the five project areas. Analytical tools will be developed and information will be stored in a
Geographic Information System (GIS) in digital data formats and maps. Training will be provided to field staff and
indigenous promoters.
(ii) Analysis of biodiversity conservation status. This sub-component will be carried out with the
participation of the local population in all project areas. Through field observation, relationships between resources
and local inhabitants will be determined including the economic processes resulting from these relationships. A
cause-threat-effect relationship will be determined. Analysis of habitat representation and persistence of indicator
species and analysis of key economic processes will be undertaken with local communities and mitigation measures
proposed. Proposals will be made to modify existing policies and plans if needed.
(iii) Monitoring of biological and socio economic indicators. Activities include (i) design of monitoring
plans. Two main indicators for biological monitoring will be established (a) vegetation cover and land use analyses,
and (b) flora and fauna indicator species. (ii) develop monitoring plans, (iii) train project field teams and
- 60 -



indigenous promoters in carrying out annual monitoring (iv) implement the monitoring exercise and (v) report
findings.
(iv) Monitoring of protected area management effectiveness. Management effectiveness will be measured
by using a score card and a community evaluation worksheet, Training will be provided to field staff and
indigenous promoters.
Implementation Arrangements
The preparation of databases and monitoring plans; two years of monitoring and evaluation activities; and
permanent training of INRENA staff and indigenous promoters at the local and central level, will be contracted out
in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Supervision will be the responsibility of the Director of the MES
Unit to be established at INRENA. Contractors will prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for the duration
of their contracts. Contracts will be subject to prior review and awarded on a Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) basis.
Table 1: Activity Responsibility Framework
Sub Component                Activities                    Outputs            Responsibility
(contracts)
Biological and      - Compile existing information   - Compendium of existing  - INRENA MES
Socio-economic      - Organize biological information    information          Unit
databases          taxonomically                     -Evaluation protocols,   Contractors
- Organize information on        standards and analytical    - Indigenous
socio-economic activities       tools                     promoters
determined by area, time and     - GIS data layer formats
community use patterns.          - Fauna, flora maps
- WWW site
- Technical assistance and
___ ___ ___ __  ___ _ __ __   training
Biodiversity        -Implement Field surveys         Status report and        - INRENA MES
conservation status   Prepare Status report          indicators               Unit
Determine Baseline situation and                          - Contractors
indicators                                                - Indigenous
promoters
Biological and      - Measure vegetation cover and land   Monitoring plan     - INRENA MES
Socio-economic      use patterns                     Training and technical   Unit
Monitoring          - Monitor flora and fauna indicator   assistance          - Contractors
species                                                   - Indigenous
promoters
Area Management   -Test, adjust scorecard and        - Score cards and        - INRENA M&E
Monitoring          community evaluation worksheets    worksheets tested and  Unit
already developed               implemented in five       - Contractors
- Provide training in use of the  project areas annually.  - Field Teams
scorecard and worksheet                                   - Indigenous
- Apply methodology on an annual                          promoters
basis
- 61 -



Additional
Annex 12
Social Characteristics and Biodiversity Situation of Project Areas
This document presents social and biological information on the proposed El Sira Reserved Zone and the
Gueppi, Purus and Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zones and the Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve. It also
includes information on biodiversity threats in each area.
El Sira (Drogosed Reserved Zone)
The proposed El Sira Reserved Zone is located within three departments of the Amazon region of Peru (Pasco,
Huanuco and Ucayali). The proposed reserve would cover an area of 600,000 hectares. Since 1975 indigenous
communities have suggested the creation of a Communal Reserve in the area. Technical studies, which have
been prepared, need to be updated and brought to INRENA attention. The proposed Reserved Zone can be
reached from PucaUpa by following the Ucayaly River reaching the provincial capital of Atalaya.
Social Characteristics There are two distinct types of area inhabitants with particular differences in
terms of use of natural resources. Indigenous hunter gatherer groups (Shipibo-Conbibo, Ashanika and
Yanesha) established in 128 communities along the Ucayali, Unini, Pichis and Pachitea rivers who maintain
traditional cultural values and colonizers involved in agricultural production, forestry and fishing activities.
The population has been estimated to include 22,202 inhabitants of which 82 percent are considered
indigenous. Economic activities are more intense in areas close to urban centers such as Pucallpa while fishing
is the main activity in the Ucayaly River. In the Pichis and Pachitea areas, forest extraction is predominant.
Biodiversity characteristics. Pristine forests characterize the area. There are several tree species of
biodiversity importance, orchids and medicinal plants, There are 299 bird species, 124 mammals, 140 reptiles
and 109 fish species. Gold exploration in the Lupapichis and Negro rivers threaten the proposed area. Intensive
fishing and the use of toxins in the Pachitea river and the construction of a road through the San Matias-San
Carlos Protected Forest are also considered threats to the biodiversity of the area.
Guenni Reserved Zone
The Gueppi Reserved Zone was established in March 1997 and covers an area of 625,971 hectares. It is situated
in Santa Clotilde district of Maynas province in the departnent of Loreto. This reserve borders protected areas
in Ecuador (Cuyabeno) and Colombia (La Paya). Access to the area is difficult. It can be reached by boat using
the Putumayo River from Puerto Asis and Puerto Leguizamo. Road infrastructure is limited to trails linling
river margin communities. Air transportation is restricted to one flight a week from Iquitos to El Estrecho. The
Peruvian Arny is presently constructing a new airport in Gueppi.
Social Characteristics. Quichua, Huitoto and Secoya indigenous groups inhabit the area. There are 22
rural human settlements with an estimated population of 2,250 inhabitants. Settlements are situated in the right
margin of the Puturayo river and its three tributaries: Peneya, Yaricaya and Angustilla rivers. There are also
four military posts in the Lagartococha and Aguarico rivers. It is estimated that there are 677 Quichua
individuals while the Huitototo and Secoya groups represent 100 and 425 individuals respectively. The Quicha
are established in the Puerto Lupita, Miraflores, Puerto Velez, Puerto Argelia, Ipiranga and Angustilla
settlements. Huitotos are settled in the Santa Teresita del Rio Penaya hamlet and the Secoya in Zambelin de
Yaricaya and Mashunta on the Angusilla river.
- 62 -



Biodiversity chacteristics. There are 50 flora species of economic importance mainly along river
margins. There is a record number of fish species (112 species) in the lower basin of the Napo River. There are
also 17 primate species and 560 bird species. The following tree species are considered threatened: cedro
(Cedrela odorata), caoba, (Swietenia macrophylla,) lupuna (Chorisia insignis) and tornilllo (Cedrelinga
cateniformis). Existing fauna is also threatened among them the black lizard (Caiman niger) and boa (Boa
constrictor). Biodiversity in the area is threatened by selective extraction of tree species, indiscriminate hunting
and overfishing.
Purus Reserved Zone
The Purus Reserved Zone was established in July 2000.It is located in Purus province of the department of
Ucayali and parts of the Madre de Dios province. It covers an area of 5 101 945 hectares. The Reserved Zone
can be reached by air once a week. The most important airstrip is located in Puerto Esperanza.
Social Characteristics. The population of the area is estimated to be 3,600 inhabitants of which 75
percent are indigenous. An estimated 40 indigenous communities of Cashinaguas, Sharanahuas, Culinas,
Mastanahuas, Amahuacas, Ashanikas and Chaninahuas are settled along the Purus and Curanja rivers. There is
also evidence of a non-contacted groups identified as Mashcos inhabiting an area of approximately 769 000
hectares. A group of approximately 130 colonizer families are settled in the Mi Peru and Palestina hamlets and
the provincial capital of Puerto Esperanza.
Biodiversity Characteristics. Identified species include 132 mammnals, Threatened species include 5
bird species 22 mammals and seven reptiles. Biodiversity is being threatened by the use of toxins for fishing
and indiscriminate forestry extraction.
Santiaeo-Comaina Reserved Zone
The Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone was established in January 1999 with an area of 863,277 hectares It is
located in the province of Condorcanqui, Inaza district of Bagua province of the department of Arnazonas and
Morona district Alto Maranon province of the department of Loreto. The Reserved Zone can be reached by boat
using the Maraflon, Santiago and Cenepa Rivers, by air using the Ciro Alegria and Puerto Galilea airports. The
road network includes a road following the northern Peruvian oil pipeline and the Olmos-Corral
Quemado-Mesones road
Social characteristics .Aguaruna and Huambisa indigenous communities inhabit areas along the
Comaina, Cenepa, Santiago and Maranion rivers in the Cenepa and Rio Santiago districts of Condorcanqui
province of the Amazon department. The population of Condorcanqui province is estimated in 30 520
inhabitants
Biodiversity charactersitics. The following flora species are considered vulnerable: huasai, (Euterpe
precatoria) ungurahui, (Oenocarpus botaua), yarina, Phytelephas macrocarpa) shiringa, (Hevea spp) una de
gato (Uncaria spp) shimbillo (Inga sp).
Pacava-Samiria National Reserve
The Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve was established in 1982. It is located in the department of Loreto and
cover an area of 2'080,000 hectares.
- 63 -



Social characteristics. indigenous comnmunities of the Cocama-Cocamilla group inhabit the Reserve.
The other indigenous group is composed of Shipibo-Combo. There are 203 human settlements within de
borders of the Reserve with an estimated population of 92 000 inhabitants. There are 24 indigenous
communities. A considerable number of migrants from Yurimaguas and Pucallpa have also settled in the area.
Biodiversity Characteristics. The Reserve is characterized by its rich biodiversity. There are 330 bird
species, 79 mammals, 40 reptiles and 55 fish species. The area of the Reserve has been subject to direct use
including rubber production, livestock breeding and forestry activities. According to the CDC there are 8
species in critical situation and 5 considered threatened. Among the fauna species: the black lizard ( Caiman
niger), manati, (Trichechus inunguis) red guacamayo (Ara macao). The threatened flora species include oje
(Ficus insipida) cedro (Cedrela odorata), tomillo (Cedrelinga catenaeformis). The main threat to the Reserve
is intense population pressure on existing resources and oil exploration.
-64 -



Additional
Annex 13
Social Assessment and Public Participation Analysis
Objectives and methodology
The main objective of the social assessment and public participation analysis was to determine the social conditions
of indigenous communities in the selected project areas and to establish institutional, economic and area
management perceptions as well as the possible economic use of natural resources in selected areas. The
consultation process was carried out using several methodologies including: (i) field surveys; (ii) workshops and
(iii) field reconnaissance. Table 1 below provides information on the areas in which the workshops and assessments
were carried out.
Table 1 Consultation Activities
Methods                       Area                       Communities/Areas
Field Surveys                El Sira                       50 communities
Gueppi                       22 communities
Purus                         42 communities
Santiago-Comaina              56 conmmunities
Workshops                    El Sira                       3 workshops (Nueva Italia, Puerto
Bermudez and Pucallpa)
Gueppi                        2 workshops (Soplin Vargas and Nueva
Angusilla)
Purus                         2 workshops in Puerto Esperanza
4 workshops Marafion, Cenepa,
Santiago-Comaina             Santiago and Morona
Field reconnaissance         El Sira                       Putumayo River basin
Gueppi                        Penaya River basin
Purus                         Purus River basin
Santiago-Comaina             Tuntanai and Campanquiz mountain
ranges
Key Findings and Recommendations
There are a number of findings, which are common to all project areas. A Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities
and Threats (SWOT) analysis was carried out during the social assessment process. The analysis indicated that
communities have the following strengths:
(i)     They are organized and maintain their cultural values and identities. Although many communities are
under severe outside pressures, they have umbrella organizations such as the Interethnic Association for the
Peruvian Rain Forest (AIDESEP) and the National Confederation of Amazonian Nations of Peru (CONAP) who
adequately represent them;
(ii)    They have an understanding of the potential use of natural resources and possess traditional knowledge of
the uses of flora and fauna resources;
(iii)    Existence of abundant resources mainly in aquatic ecosystems;
(iv)    There is an understanding of indigenous people's rights although, this knowledge is presently held by
- 65 -



traditional leaders;
Participants in social assessment workshops identified the following weaknesses;
(i)    Weak organizational structures at the community level requiring training in participatory methodologies
and democratic processes
(ii)    Poor health conditions with high levels of morbidity
(iii)    Limited availability of energy sources and poor transportation networks
(iv)    Lack of management plans to allow for economic development activities
(v)    Insufficient knowledge and understanding of market development and conditions for economic
development
Participants concluded that there are several opportunities for their development. They concluded that there is a
growing demand for natural products and a favorable international and legal framework, which would allow
indigenous groups to further their economic development. Economic development projects could run into
difficulties because of limited volumes for demanding markets. It was stated that in order to succeed project
interventions should be highly participatory and be based on traditional knowledge and customs. The presence of
colonists and drug traffickers is important in Gueppi and Santiago Comaina and pose a threat to the sustainable use
of biodiversity natural resources.
Table 2 below summarizes main findings related to the potential economic activities which could be undertaken in
given areas as well as the recommendations made concerning the status of project areas.
Table 2 Specific Findings and Recommendations by Area
Area                        Findings                     Recommendations
El Sira                    Economic development potential    Limit threats caused by gold mining
in eco tourism, medicinal plants  and building of the Tahuania road
and management and breeding of
wild fauna.
Gueppi                     Economic development potential    Establish a definite protection
in the production of camu camu  category to the present Reserved
(Myrciaria dubia)               Zone
Expand the present Reserved Zone to
include areas of the Siona-Secoya
indigenous communities
Purus                      Economic development potential    Take into account rights of the
of handicrafts, medicinal plants,  Mascho-Piro non-contacted
captive breeding of wild fauna  indigenous groups incorporating new
areas.
Santiago Comaina           Economic development potential    Further the establishment of a
in reforestation, medicinal plants,   Biosphere Reserve and duplicate the
handicrafts, captive breeding of  present Reserved Zone Area
sajino, venado and Sachavaca
(xx)
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 14
Project Implementation Plan
Project Duration (in months): 60          6      12   18    24    30    36    42    48   54    60
Project Components & Subcomponents         Year I      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
1. Participatory Biodiversity Conservation
1.1 Creation and Categorization of Protected
Areas
a) Preparation of planning documents and   x   x     x      x     x      x
implementation of the consultative process
b) Drafting of administrative resolutions      x     x     x      x     x      x    x
and legislative decrees
1.2 Strengthening Participatory Mechanisms        _    __
a) Establishment and Strengthening of    x     x     x     x      x     x      x    x    x       x
Protected Areas Management Committees
(PAMC)
b) Creation of Community Based and       x     x     x     x      x     x      x    x    x       x
Management Protected Areas Surveillance
System (PASS)                                     _          .              ___
1.3 Indigenous Training in Participatory    x     x     x      x     x      x
Mechanisms
1.4 Public Awareness Program                      x      x     x     x      x     x    x    x       x
1.5. Provide Infrastructure Protected Areas  x    x     =      ==                 =     =
1.6 Field Project Team                      x     x     x      x     x      x     x    x      x     x
2. Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity
2.1 Management Plans for Titled Indigenous
Lands            _                                                  _  =__
2.2 Communal Natural Resource Concession                 x     x      x     x
Contracts
2.3 Demand and Market Studies               x     x   _
2.4 Biodiversity Sub grant Investments
(a) Pre-investment                                  x      x
(b) Investment                                      x      x     x      x     x    x
(c) Technical Assistance                            x      x     x      x     x    x      x     x
3. Monitoring and Evaluation           ____
3.1 Biological and Socio Economic Baselines  x    x      x     x
and Data Bases                                        I
3.2 Biological and Socio Economic Monitoring             x     x     x      x     x    x      x      x
3.3 Area Management Monitoring                    x      x     x     x      x     x    x      x      x
3.4 Training, Technical Assistance and            x      x     x     x      x     x    x      x      x
Operational Support
4. Project Implementation                              _
4.1 Project Coordinating Committee          x     x      x     x      x     x     x    x      x      x
4.2 Central Project Team                    x     x      x     x     x      x     x    x    x       x
4.3 Technical Assistance                    x     x      x     x     x      x     x    x      x      x
- 67 -






MAP SECTION






r  7S- 72 FSbnDlpF72 J9H Dnn -10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t), \ E2 , ! 470; IBRD 31213~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR 321
GUEPPI TARGET AREA                                                                  9  ToaE v,                                        CCOSTA Rij     ,             R DD
> ,:9 < ' pg CQboBB  EL SIRA                                                                                 PERU
.re<pi                                                                                          ck..A  A                            COLOMBIA                     INDIGENOUS MANAGEMENT OF
P, o'  'F Inca' IpOric     ChocrEoT                     v&J /           _4.  >                  NATURAL  PROTECTED  AREAS
B _     LJCAYAU -Xa            ,TEASOR                          0         IN THE PERUVIAN AMAZON
-10-                                        l? o--   w     A WoANs   Co p                 BRAZIL                       PROJECT TARGET AREAS
CFTSchBU) <urEr1B  VX PASC IA  R,                                                          ;              Q7kNATIONAL CAPITAL
V.110                        C'r PASCO ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE~                             \0 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
B~erto Bermsule.                                           LEL-~-  RIVERS
% XS             .                    < % XerfoBerfnurkz l t : ZELTOPLR' S       - - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
K   SESUADOR   T    Sabalcy.cu <+f  g           <       t                        <             \C,                                                 )                                  --     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Al\<                                                 >'\ '; < ,, \.  B Termspilsr,e :; , , $F EOLIVIA
C<C.6. P-tj.J N-TI b    7d.-,R -,,I dTI W_ .......
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                                                                        AY dI   _6 p-1 .1iry             T6d'"  W-R^J^d 8=w'Sw -k -,-'
0             250IL5BESKILOMETERS                                                                                             CH E
75~I                                                 75                                                                               ARGENTINA
7-                            77             76'                       7                         74'                                                                     71                         70'                9
SANTIAGO COMAINA TARGET AREA        -4- PACAYA-SAMIRIA TARGET AREAC                                                                               4Sa/                                                      TARGET AREA 
0     25    50    75    100              ,           '                                                                                                                                  A        PURUS
KILOMETERS              4-'6 -                                                                                                                                                                 1S5 25 5  71   100
2'A                    .    U      <    LOrFFO                            M    Q      *                 w7at;   s  +   E           N      W|LORETO
7    SBIKBiBBIB  CoRIpo              0     25  LOM0ER    75  102 f                                                                                                           I  E
ECUADOR                                                                                              Z                                                                                           B TA --  ZIL                           q. ir- .iAc,,
(  \                ~~~~~~~~~~LORETO                                                                                                                                    L---- !
5'                                                                                 So
AMAZONAS                    PeT  OBO                        Aouee 
. ) / , t 77'Y;> ChOiJeO, 76 Tierra  Bl9ncoF7st 74 - r  '000
4       /
CvobI.m            eBBEPAli. .                                                                                                                                                          AJR   ei~~-
B  7~~~~~~~~~~                                        I7
ONOVOPPO -'                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 2000



