Report No. PID8359
Project Name                     Peru-Indigenous Management
of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environmental Institutions
Project ID                       PEPE65200
Borrower(s)                      INRENA/PROMUDEH
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 4, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 30, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The primary sector issues affecting protected areas and indigenous peoples'
participation in conservation efforts may be summarized as follows; (i) the
current System of National Protected Areas (SINANPE) under represents the
Peruvian Amazon; currently, only 6.7w of this rich biome is protected; (ii)
an expansion of the protected area coverage is required to maximize chances
for achieving long-term biodiversity conservation from a landscape approach;
(iii) expansion of areas under conservation should include the participation
of the indigenous peoples of the Amazon, due to the fact that they have lived
in these areas for at least the past millennium; (iv) at present the
government has few funds to cover recurrent costs. In order for the project
to achieve financial sustainability, recurrent costs need to be assured for
establishment and running of communal reserves; (v) legal issues such as
communal land tenure in the areas of conservation needs to be verified and
secured such as the law for Native Communities (ley de Comunidades Nativas)
and other relevant sectoral laws and regulations governing resource use in
the reserves buffer zones such as prohibiting large-scale extractive
activities (oil, mining, forestry); (vi) existing conservation and management
efforts have not incorporated and reinforced traditional indigenous knowledge
and land conservation strategies, doing so would promote conservation and
strengthen indigenous cultural practices, and; (vii) poverty rates for
indigenous populations are higher than in the rest of the population;
therefore, conservation efforts must also address means to fight poverty.
Government Strategy: In 1994, with the support of GTZ and the NGO community,
the Government of Peru produced a " Master Plan for the National System of
Protected Areas." The Plan identifies new protected areas that need to be
established in order to achieve eco-regional representation and to protect
the highest priorities from a biological perspective. This "ideal"
representative system would eventually include approximately 65 areas of
national importance covering between 12 and 15 percent of the territory. The
national system currently includes 48 protected areas. Adding new areas to
the system, however, must be done with caution, carefully weighing the
positive incentives of new political support and commitment against the
realities of institutional management capacities that need to be strengthened
over the long term.



As a complement to these efforts, in 1995 the Bank approved a GEF-funded
project to support the establishment of a National Trust for Protected Areas
(PROFONANPE). The goal of this project was to build Peru's capacity to
finance the recurrent costs of protected area management by complementing
scarce government funds. A mid-term evaluation of PROFONANPE recently
concluded that despite the initial challenges inherent with an effort of this
magnitude, PROFONANPE has succeeded in raising additional funds and is
becoming an important source of recurrent cost financing. Supporting the
expansion of the protected area system in response to Peru's commitment is
therefore warranted. The protected areas currently receiving recurrent cost
support from PROFONANPE are presented in Annex 12.
A Multi-Sectoral Commission for Protected Areas will be created during
project design. The purpose of the commission will be to promote a unified
and clear development model that adequately takes into account the cultural
dimension of indigenous peoples as well as conservation and management in the
reserves. The Commission will be made up of relevant governmental agencies,
non-governmental agencies (NGOs) and indigenous organizations working with
conservation and/or indigenous peoples. The role of the Commission will be to
act as a coordinating, decision-making and advisory body to the project.
2. Objectives
1. Development Objective: The development objective of the project is to
increase indigenous peoples participation in benefits from biodiversity
conservation in the Peruvian Amazon through communal management of protected
areas by indigenous groups. This will be achieved by: (a) establishing areas
for communal reserves using participatory methods; (b) developing management
plans and management agreements with the indigenous communities and
federations managing the communal reserves; (c) building and strengthening
institutional organizational and technical capacity to sustainably manage
reserves (to be co-financed by Peru LIL); and (d) investing in pilot
community development projects for sustainable use of biodiversity.
2. Global Environmental Objectives: The global environmental objective is to
conserve and sustainably use important forest ecosystems in the Peruvian
Amazon through the establishment of protected areas to be co-managed by
indigenous people. The Amazon of Peru is a part of the largest continuous
forest on the planet, which includes 40 percent of all remaining tropical
forests of the world. The area under consideration is an important repository
of biological diversity on earth. Given its strategic location in the upper
watershed of the basin, Peru's Amazon contains a very rich biodiversity
expressed in terms of unique species richness, high levels of endemism, and
habitat diversity. Even though the region needs to be studied in greater
detail, many areas in the Peruvian Amazon already hold world records in terms
of biodiversity richness. Given these facts, conservation of these areas is
of utmost importance in the goal of conserving the world's biodiversity. The
new areas will be chosen based on scientific priority-setting exercises
already conducted, identifying the highest priorities for biodiversity
conservation.
The project emerges from a commitment by the Government of Peru (GoP) to
expand effective forest conservation in the Amazon region to cover at least
10t of the biome (75 million ha in Peru). To accomplish this goal, the GoP is
committed to establish up to nine new protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon
- 2 -



adding ca. 5.1 million hectares to areas under conservation. In parallel to
this commitment, the GoP is also promoting a greater involvement of local
communities (particularly indigenous peoples) in the direct management of
protected areas--to help meet the above goal of having 10. of the Amazon in
Peru under conservation--as well as to ensure equitable benefits resulting
from the establishment of communal reserves as part of an overall strategy
for rural poverty alleviation. Incorporating local indigenous communities in
the direct management of these areas will help ensure long-term social,
ecological, and financial sustainability.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
GEF support is warranted because of the global significance of the Peruvian
Amazon as a site of high biodiversity. The Peru Indigenous Peoples
Development LIL is closely tied with the work of this project, helping to
strengthen and empower indigenous peoples to manage their own development
needs as well as manage their own conservation. Part of the funding for this
project is being co-financed by the LIL. This money is being used to
strengthen organizational capacity as well as to fund innovative projects
that attempt to promote economic benefits from sustainable natural resource
use in buffer zones. Value added of Bank support lies in technical support
for preparation, supervision capacity, and development of linkages with
SETAI, INRENA, SINANPE, PROFONANPE and CONAM as well as with NGOs such as the
World Wildlife Fund and indigenous organizations and communities.
4. Description
Components:
1. Creation of New Conservation Areas: Under this component, the new areas to
be designated (which will be identified through a combination of scientific
and participatory processes during Block-B implementation) will be created.
Once these areas are identified, participatory processes will determine the
exact type of protection to be achieved in each area (i.e., management
category), as well as exact boundaries. The GoP is ready to use a variety of
tools, including establishing indigenous communities reserves or areas under
the System of Protected Areas which allow co-management by indigenous
communities (primarily Communal Reserves and National Reserves). "Biosphere
reserves," which cluster several categories (titled indigenous communities,
communal reserves, parks, etc) under a landscape approach is the preferred
model to be followed. The final set of protected areas will be recommended
for establishment through Presidential Decree.
2. Development of Management Plans: Management plans will be developed and
management responsibility transferred to organized indigenous people under a
"Comite de Gestion" which is recognized by Peruvian legislation. Plans will
need to be approved by INRENA. The areas will then be zoned according to the
Plan, including core zones of strict protection and areas of sustainable use
of biodiversity resources. These uses will be based on sustainable non-timber
options. No large-scale extractive activities (oil, mining, forestry) are
allowed under the recognized protected areas categories.
3. Institutional Strengthening, Capacity Building and Community Development:
Communities will be strengthened both in terms of organization as well as
technical aspects for sustainable use. This component will be primarily co-
- 3 -



financed by the LIL. The LIL objectives are to combat extreme poverty and
improve the quality of life for indigenous communities of the Sierra and
Amazon through strengthened organizational, technical and entrepreneurial
capacity of communal indigenous organizations. Investment in community
development sub-projects and biodiversity conservation will be implemented by
indigenous organizations.
4. Community Led Investments: a) Community Biodiversity-Friendly Investments:
sustainable use of biodversity projects on sustainable use will be
implemented at each site. The decision about specific project interventions
will be based on technical considerations and through participatory processes
based on community interest. There are previous experiences in Peru regarding
sustainable biodiversity uses (i.e., Manu, Noroeste), but these experiences
have not been replicated at larger scales. A few of the promising options
include wildlife breeding, orchids, ecotourism, and bioprospecting. It is
expected that this component will result in long-term benefits accruing to
indigenous people and will be the foundation of social sustainability. b)
Community Development Projects: The objective of this component is to finance
small community projects that develop, experiment and document successful
participatory methods oriented towards specific community development
initiatives, that have been agreed to by the authorities of indigenous
communities and municipalities. Existing community development projects in
different stages of development and focused on the following issues can be
funded by this component: productive projects, health, etc. Technical support
exists within this sub-component to allow indigenous communities to design
their own initiatives for community development. It will finance activities
such as: technical advice, feasibility studies and design (primarily for
economic projects and low impact tourism infrastructure), management capacity
building and establishing connections with potential associates and
financiers. Co-financing between the two sub-components is possible and will
be encouraged to enhance synergy and create incentives for biodiversity
conservation.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation: Standard project implementation monitoring,
based on the Project Design Summary/Logical Framework, will be carried out
throughout the project implementation period. This component will include
support for scientifically sound monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity.
Collaboration with also other, complementary initiatives will be sought.
World Wildlife Fund will develop "score cards" under a participatory process
which will be used to measure project impact from a biological, social, and
institutional perspectives. Baseline biological information will be
determined through in-depth biological assessments.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               5
IBRD                                     5
IDA
Global Environment Fund                  10
World Wildlife Fund                      1
Bilateral Agencies (unidentified)        3
Total Project Cost                       24
6. Implementation
-4-



Project Coordination: The project will be coordinated by a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) based in INRENA. During project implementation INRENA
will manage conservation and biodiversity components. SETAI (the Technical
Secretariat for Indigenous Affairs) will work on strengthening organizational
and technical capacity of the indigenous communities and organizations to
manage the reserves as well as other development initiatives (component C).
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): A Multi-Sectoral Commission for
Protected Areas made up of involved governmental sectors, NGOs and indigenous
organizations will be put together during project design. The committee will
base its decisions on consensus and will use this as the instrument for
advising INRENA. One of the conditions for negotiations will be the
participation of representatives of the Commission in negotiations. The World
Bank as GEF implementing agency will provide technical, social and financial
supervision during implementation of the project.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements: It is currently
anticipated that INRENA will be responsible for project financial management,
reporting, and auditing following procedures acceptable to the Bank. INRENA
will administer the GEF grant funds through the PCU, and will be responsible
for disbursements. The financial management system to be maintained in
INRENA for the project will be consistent with that established for the Peru
Indigenous Peoples Development LIL. The Project Coordination Unit for the
Biodiversity project will have access to financial and audit reports to
ensure complementarity of expenditures on activities included in both
projects. Project accounts will be audited annually, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be submitted to the
Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project coordination unit will
establish a project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program acceptable to the
Bank. Procedures and M&E reports will be guided by: (a) the Project Design
Summary (Annex 1); and (b) the Monitoring Plan as detailed in the Operational
Manual. M&E is to be conducted through: (a) activities of the project
administration unit; (b) annual progress review during Bank supervision
missions not later than July 31 of each year starting in 2000; (c) Mid-term
Review of project implementation to be carried out jointly by GoP, the
Commission and the Bank, and; (d) periodic beneficiary assessments and other
special studies.
Under the project, biological monitoring will be conducted, with score-cards
developed to measure project impact including biological aspects as well as
the effectiveness of protected area management. WWF has expressed interest in
co-financing this component and providing technical assistance during its
execution.
Every six months the project administration unit will transmit to the Bank
progress reports on project implementation and outcomes, using the format
agreed at negotiations. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared
within six months after the closing of the grant.
7. Sustainability
The project's focus on long term program sustainability is covered by the
enabling policy environment and building local peoples capacity for
- 5-



development based on their own perspectives and relying on their own
resources. Most of the responsibility for park management and enforcement
will lie in the hands of the indigenous communities, who will use traditional
community structures of voluntary participation by members of the community
for enforcement and management. This assumption is sustainable as long as:
(i) the project responds to the desires of indigenous peoples in the Peruvian
Amazon; (ii) the legal framework for protected areas restricts extractive
industrial activities, and; (iii) recurrent costs are manageable within GoP
fiscal capabilities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience in Peru and elsewhere show that: (i) the sustainability of
protected areas is greatly enhanced when local populations benefit directly
from their establishment; (ii) financial sustainability of managing the
communal reserves by the government has to be ensured by continual funding of
recurrent costs; (iii) local organizational capacity needs to be
strengthened; (iv) environmentally sustainable activities that also provide
economic benefits need to be offered as an alternative to practices that
encourage "mining of natural resources", and; (v) the government needs to
recognize the legal status of protected areas through supreme or presidential
decrees.
The Peruvian Amazon contains numerous indigenous groups who have expressed
their desire to ensure the maintenance of forest integrity through
conservation and through the promotion of development options that maintain
forest cover to the greatest possible extent. Therefore, directly
incorporating indigenous groups in the management of these protected areas
builds upon the synergistic potential brought about by two complementary
objectives: biodiversity conservation and indigenous people's right to self-
determination. Peruvian legislation recognizes this approach through several
management categories of protected areas, including communal reserves,
national reserves, and the clustering of various categories within a
"biosphere reserve" model.
The expansion of the system of protected areas in Peru to achieve the long-
term targets identified in the Master Plan is limited by the lack of
financial resources. Progress towards achieving the sustainability of the
present system has been good, as described above, with increased budget
allocations by the central government and the growing role of PROFONANPE in
transferring funds to finance recurrent costs. The system now has a total of
48 areas, all of which have permanent presence and enjoy some form of
management; 39 of these areas have a Park Director on the ground. It is
widely recognized, however, that additional efforts are required to achieve a
level of effective management for the entire system.
Economic activities from sustainable natural resource use in protected areas
have helped to strengthen conservation efforts by (i) providing funds for
recurrent costs, and (ii) by providing economic benefits and incentives to
those living within the confines of protected areas to participate in
conservation. The Manu National Park has reached a level of funding of
recurrent costs and substantial progress towards social sustainability
through direct community involvement in management. The Machiguenga within
Manu have created a lodge, where tourists can come and visit the park. This
lodge is one example of how eco-tourism and other sustainable activities can
- 6 -



benefit local populations involved in conservation. From the perspective of
biodiversity conservation, however, the system is incomplete and additional
protected areas need to be created in accordance with the Master Plan of the
Protected Areas System.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The project components do not have any negative
impacts on the environment. There will be low-impact activities for eco-
tourism development in buffer zones. In addition, sustainable economic
activities are planned in buffer zones (e.g. agro-ecological production,
sustainable harvesting of non-timber products such as medicinal plants and
bio-prospecting activities). Guidelines will be developed to ensure that
these activities do not harm ecosystem health or jeopardize conservation
goals.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Carlos Monge
Peru Country Office
Telephone: (51-1) 422-0282 or (51-1) 421-7239
Fax:        (51-1) 421-7241
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 19, 1999.
- 7 -



