Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 24939-PE
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated March 7, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 24939-PE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and  said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Page  2
Resolution 94-2 and to be funded from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund;
(E)
On May 9, 1978, the National Congress of the Recipient passed Ley de 
Comunidades Nativas y Desarrollo Agrario de la Selva y Ceja de la Selva (Law No. 
22157) which sets forth the Recipient’s norms for rural development of native 
communities in the Peruvian Amazon (as such term is defined in Law No. 22157);
(F)
on June 30, 1997, the National Congress of the Recipient passed Ley de 
Areas Naturales Protegidas (Law No. 26834) which sets forth the Recipient’s norms on 
management and conservation of natural protected areas (the Protected Areas);
(G)
on July 16, 1997, the National Congress of the Recipient passed Ley de 
Conservación y Aprovechamiento Sostenible de la Biodiversidad (Law No. 26839) which 
sets forth the norms for the conservation of biodiversity and its sustainable 
utilization;
(H)
on April 7, 1999, the Recipient issued Supreme Decree No. 010-99 (Supreme 
Decree No. 010-99) which sets forth the Recipient’s national strategy for Protected 
Areas; 
(I)
two of the Project Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined) are located 
in the Peruvian-Ecuadorian border region, high-priority area under the Peru-Ecuador 
Broad Agreement for Border Integration, Development and Neighborhood dated October 26, 
1998; and
(J)
the Project will also contribute in achieving the objectives of the Peru- 
Ecuador Binational Border Development Plan, aimed at promoting the sustainable use of 
ecosystems, biodiversity conservation, support of native communities and strengthening 
of the cultural identities in the Peruvian-Ecuadorian border region;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
Page  3
9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the account to be opened 
by the Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will be credited; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operation Plan and Budget" means any of the annual operation 
plans and budgets referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any Indigenous Community (as hereinafter defined) 
which is selected to carry out a Biodiversity Investment Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Subprojects Operations Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Biodiversity Investment Subproject" means any subproject to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary under Part B.4 of the Project;
(d)
"Biodiversity Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Biodiversity Subgrant" means any subgrant to be made out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a Beneficiary to carry out a Biodiversity Investment 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
Page  4
(f)
"Communal Reserve" means the Protected Area category described in Article 
22 (g) of Law No. 26834;
(g)
"CPT" means the central Project team of the SIU (as hereinafter defined) 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (A) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Environmental NGO" means any non-governmental organization active on 
environmental issues in the territory of the Recipient;
(k)
"FPT" means any of the field Project teams of the SIU (as hereinafter 
defined) referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (B) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Indigenous Community" means any indigenous community living in a Project 
Protected Area (as hereafter defined);
(m)
"INRENA" means Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales, the Recipient’s 
natural resources agency established pursuant to Decree Law No. 25902 dated November 
29, 1992;
(n)
"Key Personnel" means the key personnel referred to in Section 3.03 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(o)
"Management Committee" means any of the committees to be established in 
each Project Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the provisions of 
Articles 15 and 16 of Law No. 26834 for the purposes of ensuring the participation of 
Indigenous Communities in the management in Protected Areas;
(p)
"National Reserve" means the Protected Area category described in Article 
22 (f) of Law No. 26834;
(q)
"Natural Resource Use Contract" means any of the contracts referred to in 
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
 "Performance Indicators" means the indicators to be used to monitor and 
evaluate the Project, set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Recipient 
to the Bank;
(t)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
"Project Protected Area" means any of the following Protected Areas of 
the Recipient: (i) the Alto Purus Reserved Zone established by the Recipient’s Supreme 
Decree No. 005-99-AG, dated January 21, 1999; (ii) the Gueppi Reserved Zone 
established by the Recipient’s Supreme Decree No. 003-97-AG, dated April 3, 1997; 
(iii) the Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zone established by the Recipient’s Supreme Decree 
No. 029-2000-AG, dated July 6, 2000; (iv) the Pacaya-Samiria National Reserve 
established by the Recipient’s Supreme Decree No. 016-82-AG, dated February 4, 1982; 
and (v) the proposed El Sira Protected Area as described in INRENA’s proposal dated 
March 10, 1999;
(v)
"Reserved Zone" means the Protected Area category described in Article 13 
of Law No. 26834;
(w)
"Sectoral Agencies" means the following agencies of the Recipient: 
Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Industry, Tourism, Commerce and Integration; 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs;  Technical Secretariat for International Cooperation; and 
any other agency of the Recipient involved in the establishment and categorization of 
Protected Areas and indigenous peoples issues;
(x)
"SIU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement;
(y)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
Page  5
to this Agreement;
(z)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(aa)
"Subprojects Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
3.05 (b) of this Agreement; and
(bb)
"ZCC" means any of the committees referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) 
(C) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million seven-hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works  and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through INRENA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, ecological, environmental and 
conservation practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) At all times during the execution of the Project, the 
Recipient shall maintain:
(i)
a steering committee comprising representatives of Sectoral 
Agencies, Indigenous Communities and Environmental NGOs, as 
prescribed in the Operational Manual, and the following 
responsibilities: (A) to provide policy guidelines for Project 
implementation; (B) to review and approve appointments of Key 
Personnel; (C) to approve Annual Operation Plans and Budgets; and 
(D) to review Project implementation reports and audits; and
(ii)
a special implementation unit with structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, such unit to be composed of: (A) a 
central Project team responsible for: (1) overall Project 
management, including: procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services; monitoring and evaluation of 
Project-financed activities; and contracting of the auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; (2) 
coordination of Project activities with other projects and 
Page  6
programs of INRENA and the Sectoral Agencies; and (3) 
establishment and supervision of the FPTs; (B) a field Project 
team in each Project Protected Area, responsible for: (1) 
undertaking implementation and coordination of Project-financed 
activities with ZCCs, and public and private institutions 
operating in the respective Area; (2) assisting Indigenous 
Communities in the preparation of funding proposals; (3) 
supervising the execution of Biodiversity Investment Subprojects 
by the respective Beneficiary; and (4) preparing proposals for 
Annual Operation Plans and Budgets; and (C) zonal coordinating 
committees in each Project Protected Area responsible for: (1) 
reviewing proposals for Annual Operation Plans and Budgets; (2) 
evaluating proposals for Biodiversity Investment Subprojects; (3) 
assessing implementation of contracts financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (4) ensuring coordination of 
Project activities with the Management Committee of the respective 
Area.
(b)
The Recipient shall ensure that the SIU is staffed, at all times during 
the execution of the Project, by key personnel with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
as prescribed in the Operations Manual.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 31 and April 30 of each year, commencing on October 
31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(c)
review with the Bank by November 30 and May 30 of each year, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, as the case may be; and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall carry out all Parts of the Project (other 
than Part B.4 thereof) in accordance with an operations manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, said manual to  provide the operational regulations for coordination and 
implementation of said Parts of the Project, including: (i) the applicable 
procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures; (ii) a 
description of training programs and methodologies; (iii) a monitoring and evaluation 
plan for said Parts of the Project; and (iv) an environmental framework for mitigation 
and remediation of any potential damage arising from civil works financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient shall carry out Part B.4 of the Project in accordance with 
a subprojects operations manual satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide the 
criteria for the selection of Beneficiaries and Biodiversity Investment Subprojects, 
as well as appropriate procedures for related monitoring and evaluation, including: 
(i) a description of Biodiversity Investment Subproject cycle; and (ii) a standard 
form of Biodiversity Subgrant Agreements.
Section 3.06. (a) The Recipient shall:
(i)
not later than September 30 of  each year, furnish to the Bank, 
for its review and approval, an annual operation plan and budget 
Page  7
prepared in consultation with the Management Committees and the 
Steering Committee, such plan and budget to specify the activities 
to be financed by the Recipient out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the following year for the purposes of the 
implementation of the Project; and
(ii) 
upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Operation Plan and 
Budget, as approved by the Bank.
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any such Annual Operation Plan and 
Budget if the Bank has determined that the Recipient is not carrying out the Project 
as provided in this Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the 
Bank, have been taken therefor.
Section 3.07. (a) With regard to Part B.4 of the Project, the Recipient through 
INRENA shall enter into agreements with each Beneficiary, under the terms and 
conditions specified in the Subprojects Operations Manual, such agreements to provide 
for:
(i)
the transfer to such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of the funds 
required by such Beneficiary to carry out a Biodiversity 
Investment Subproject; and
(ii)
the obligation of such Beneficiary to carry out such Biodiversity 
Investment Subproject as provided in the Subprojects Operations 
Manual.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under any Biodiversity Subgrant 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce any Biodiversity Subgrant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. (a) With regard to Part B.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall 
ensure that, not later than August 31, 2001, INRENA enters into at least one natural 
resource use contract with Indigenous Communities under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of proposals submitted by such Communities in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under any Natural Resource Use 
Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce any Natural Resource Use Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall:
(a)
before establishing the proposed El Sira Protected Area or recategorizing 
any other Project Protected Area, as provided under the laws of the Recipient:
(i)
review, in consultation with the appropriate agencies, any land 
claims of the respective Indigenous Communities and determine any 
measures necessary or advisable to regularize their legal status, 
Page  8
and to finalize the land titling process;
(ii)
take the measures determined under subparagraph (i) above to 
regularize the legal status of the Indigenous Communities, and to 
finalize the land titling process; and
(iii)
provide adequate compensation to the affected Indigenous 
Communities for any restriction on the use of land, or access to 
natural resources, arising from the establishment of the proposed 
El Sira Protected Area or the recategorization of any other 
Project Protected Area, such compensation to be made through 
access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and 
earning opportunities;
(b)
set the boundaries of the Project Protected Areas so established or 
recategorized outside the boundaries of any lands titled to, or claimed by, Indigenous 
Communities;
(c)
prior to carrying out any of the activities referred to in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) above, furnish to the Bank an action plan for its review and approval; and
(d)
thereafter, carry out the action plan referred to in paragraph (c) above 
as approved by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, within INRENA, a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
Page  9
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports of statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than January 31, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that Law No. 22157 or Law No. 26834 or Law No. 26839 or Supreme Decree 
No. 010-99-AG, or any of the regulations issued under the authority of any of them, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to 
comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
that: (i) the proposed El Sira Protected Area shall have not been 
established to the satisfaction of the Bank by December 31, 2002; or (ii) the Santiago 
Comaina, Gueppi and Purus Reserved Zones shall have not been recategorized to the 
satisfaction of the Bank by December 31, 2003.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
Page  10
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Recipient shall have adopted the Operations Manual;
(b)
the Recipient shall have issued regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
Law No. 26834 conducive to the participation of Indigenous Communities in the 
management of Project Protected Areas; 
(c)
the Recipient shall have established the SIU in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank and appointed the Key Personnel; and
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement shall 
have been selected.
Section 6.02. The date June 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Jr. Ucayali 363
Lima 1, Peru
Facsimile:
(51-1)311-2406
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Javier Pérez de Cuéllar
Page  11
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Part A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (other than those 
financed under Biodiversity
Subgrants)
    610,000
85%
(2)
Goods (other than those
financed under Biodiversity
Subgrants)
    560,000
85% 
(3)
Consultants’ services, 
training and auditors fees
(other than those financed 
under Biodiversity
Subgrants)
  3,160,000
100%
(4)
Incremental Operating
Costs:
  1,320,000
During years
2001 and 2002: 85%;
during years
2003 and 2004: 65%;
during years
2005 and 2006: 40%
(5)
Biodiversity Subgrants
  1,350,000
100% of amounts
disbursed under a
Biodiversity
Subgrant
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
                700,000
TOTAL
  7,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms:
(a)
"Incremental Operating Costs" means the operating costs of INRENA arising 
from the implementation of the Project, including inter alia: (a) rental of office 
space; (b) public utilities; (c) office supplies; (d) communications and 
transportation expenses; and (e) salaries of INRENA’s staff employed for, or assigned 
Page  12
to, the SIU; and
(b)
"Training" means the cost of: (a) per diem and travel expenses of 
trainees; (b) rental of training facilities and  equipment; (c) training materials; 
and (d) training fees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
200,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 
twelve (12) months from the date of this Agreement, but not before October 15, 2000; 
and
(b)
Biodiversity Subgrants unless: (a) the Recipient shall have adopted the 
Subprojects Operations Manual; and (b) FPTs have adequate financial management 
capacity to the satisfaction of the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient for the following expenditures: 
(a)
works under contracts costing less than $60,000 equivalent (other than 
the first contract referred to in Part D.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement);
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent (other than 
the first contract referred to in Part D.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement);
(c)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent (other than the first contract referred to in Part D.2 (a) (ii) of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); 
(d) 
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent (other than the first two contracts referred to in Part D.2 (b) of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement); 
(e)
training; 
(f)
Incremental Operating Costs; and 
(g)
Biodiversity Subgrants (other than the first Biodiversity Subgrant).
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
Part B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Page  13
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special 
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, 
and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  14
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
of $700,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount of $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR800,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the Special Account, shall not exceed $1,500,000.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the conservation and sustainable 
utilization of forest ecosystems in the Peruvian Amazon through the involvement of 
Indigenous Communities in the management of Project Protected Areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Participatory Biodiversity Conservation
1.
Creation or Recategorization of Project Protected Areas
(a)
Preparation of the planning documents required for the establishment of 
the proposed El Sira Protected Area and the recategorization of the Alto Purus, Gueppi 
and Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zones, including: (i) master plans; (ii) public use 
plans; (iii) management plans; and (iv) resource use zoning plans.
(b)
Implementation of consultative processes for the preparation of the 
planning documents referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the Project, including: (i) carrying 
out of workshops for distribution of the first draft documents to Indigenous 
Communities; (ii) recording and taking into account the opinions and suggestions of 
such Indigenous Communities in the drafting of the final documents; and (iii) 
discussing the proposals for the establishment of new Communal Reserves with 
representatives of the Indigenous Communities of existent Communal Reserves.
(c)
Drafting of the legal instruments required for the establishment of the 
proposed El Sira Protected Area and the recategorization of the Alto Purus, Gueppi and 
Santiago-Comaina Reserved Zones, in consultation with Indigenous Communities and the 
Sectoral Agencies.
2.
Strengthening of Participatory Mechanisms 
(a)
Establishment and operation of Management Committees and ZCCs, aimed at 
ensuring participation of Indigenous Communities, private and public institutions and 
grassroots organizations in such Committees.
(b)
Creation of a community-based and managed surveillance system for Project 
Protected Areas, aimed at ensuring basic protection against illegal use of natural 
resources within such Areas with the assistance of Indigenous Communities.
(c)
Implementation of a public awareness and environmental education program 
for local authorities and the public at large, aimed at improving the understanding of 
the importance of biodiversity conservation in the Project Protected Areas.
(d)
Analysis of best practices and lessons learned during Project 
implementation through regional workshops.
3.
Provision of training to Indigenous Communities in participatory mechanisms and 
sustainable methods for Project Protected Areas management
Provision of training to Indigenous Communities in participatory mechanisms for 
Project Protected Areas management, aimed at raising the awareness in matters related 
to biodiversity conservation and sustainable utilization of natural resources.
4.
Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment in Project Protected Areas
Construction, improvement or maintenance of basic infrastructure facilities in 
Project Protected Areas, including:
Page  16
(a)
construction and improvement of INRENA’s operation centers;
(b)
construction of Indigenous Communities centers;
(c)
maintenance of existing trails; 
(d)
construction of minor field infrastructure; and
(e)
acquisition and utilization of boats, vehicles, office and 
telecommunications equipment.
5.
FPTs
Establishment and operation of FPTs.
Part B:
Sustainable Utilization of Biodiversity
1.
Management Plans for Indigenous Communities Lands
Provision of technical assistance and training to Indigenous Communities on land 
use planning and zoning procedures, design of community management plans for specific 
natural resources, use  and protection of traditional knowledge for biodiversity 
conservation and sustainable use of resources for community well-being.
2. 
Natural Resource Use Contracts
Provision of technical assistance:
(a)
to Indigenous Communities for the preparation of proposals for Natural 
Resource Use Contracts in areas like production of medicinal plants, traditional crop 
systems, forest management, breeding and marketing of wildlife species, and 
eco-tourism development; and
(b)
to INRENA for the supervision of the execution of such Contracts.
3.
Studies
Carrying out of: (a) demand and market studies on the economic potential of 
proposals of Indigenous Communities for Biodiversity Investment Subprojects; (b) 
studies on protection of property rights on biodiversity materials; and (c) 
pre-investment studies and related technical assistance.
4.
Biodiversity Investment Subprojects
Carrying out of Biodiversity Investment Subprojects supporting, inter alia, the 
following activities: (a) captive breeding of wild fauna; (b) non-timber forest 
products; (c) traditional indigenous handcrafts using native materials;  (d) 
processing of native medicinal plants using traditional knowledge; (e) processing of 
food products; (f) eco-tourism; and (g) sustainable farming of native fish species.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation Systems
Design and implementation of INRENA’s monitoring and evaluation systems for the 
Project Protected Areas based on participatory mechanisms, including:
1.
Biological and Socio-economic Baselines and Data Bases
(a)
Determination of biological and socio-economic baselines.
(b)
Collection and organization of biological and socio-economic information. 
Page  17
(c)
Design of habitat conservation monitoring plans.
(d)
Development and maintenance of geo-referenced biological and 
socio-economic databases.
2.
Biological and Socio-economic Monitoring
Carrying out of:
(a)
biological monitoring of Project Protected Areas, aimed at ensuring that 
the Project conservation objectives are reached and that Indigenous Communities 
conservation plans and related activities are having a positive impact on the 
stability, size and biological richness of priority habitats and species; and
(b)
socio-economic monitoring of Project Protected Areas aimed at determining 
the impact of the utilization of biodiversity resources on the income and quality of 
life of Indigenous Communities.
3.
Project Protected Areas Management Monitoring 
Establishment of a Project Protected Areas management monitoring system, aimed 
at determining the effectiveness of such Areas management in the following aspects: 
(a) legal status; (b) grassroots participation; (c) community leadership and 
governance; (d) gender issues; (e) participatory organization and planning; (f) 
financial sustainability; (g) management programs; (h) environmental education and 
interpretation programs; (i) technical assistance; (j) information availability; (k) 
biological and socio-economic monitoring; (l) formal and informal natural resource 
use; (m) infrastructure; and (n) biodiversity threats and conflicts.
4.
Technical Assistance to INRENA and Indigenous Communities
Provision of technical assistance to INRENA and Indigenous Communities for the 
development and implementation of the Project monitoring and evaluation system.
Part D:
Project Implementation
1.
National Coordination Mechanisms
Establishment and operation of the Steering Committee. 
2.
SIU
Establishment and operation of the SIU.
3.
Technical Assistance to INRENA
Provision of technical assistance to INRENA, aimed at enhancing INRENA’s 
capacity to address legal, social, indigenous and gender issues.
4.
Evaluation
Carrying out of Project mid-term and final evaluations by independent 
evaluators.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
Page  18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Methods
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Parts B.2 and B.3 of this Section, goods 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $650,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods, works and services for Parts A.2 (b), B.2 and B.4 of the Project and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $2,200,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, as described in the Operations Manual and the 
Subprojects Operations Manual, as the case may be.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less the $60,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Page  19
Part B.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 hereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor under such 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Sections II and III of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  
the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the Project estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less but more 
than $100,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications and Least Cost Selection
Services estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less may be 
procured: (a) under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, provided 
that the aggregate amount all such contracts shall not to exceed $2,000,000 
Page  20
equivalent.
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by Indigenous Communities under Parts A.2 (b), B.2 and 
B.4 of the Project shall be in procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank, as described in the Operations Manual and in the Subprojects Operations 
Manual, as the case may be. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for 
the employment of consulting firms under Part C.2 of this Section estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants not included in the selection plan referred to in Part D.1 of 
this Section, the terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods under Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
(a)
reference value shall not be required to be published in the bidding 
documents; and
(b)
award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
Page  21
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set 
forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents.
3.
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding a 
contract for consulting services.
4.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating 
in the selection process.
