DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1558-IN
*   .^i-f.< '1 i9i;'JrU~.>
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
- 'C..5OFOTHE      Tnr
e.jt4"' ? $  ' > 4  ':i  -  _rlo  i  J'  ^ <Z
PRESIDENT
TO THE
bau b..EXEECUTIVE DIRECT.O-RSQ   , :        -
____   C..C I   P,
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM
January 16, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at December 20, 19.74)
US$1.00        =   Rs 8.12
Rs. 100        =   US$0.123
Rs. 1 million = US$123,000
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. As the Pound is now
floating relative to the US Dollar, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTEPNATTONAL DEVELOPMENT" ASSOCIATION
REPCRT AND PTECOt1ENDATIONL OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THlE EXECUTIVF DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNTMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India in an amount equivalent to UJS$200 million on standard IDA
terms for the Tenth Industrial Imports Program.   Since, in the absence of
final ratification of the Fourth Replenishment Agreement, the amount of funds
available to IDA remains seriously constrained, the (Iraft Development Credit
Agreement distributed for approval today is for the equivalent of USS100
million only. After the Fourth Replenishment Agreement becomes effec-
tive I intend to recommend an amendment to this Agreement increasing the cre-
dit amount to US$200 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOY AND TliE CASE FOR
IION-PROJECT ASSISTANCE
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India,"
(402-IN, dated May 7, 1974), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974.   A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        The Fourth Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74), which came to a close last
March, covered a period that started with high hopes and ended with little
growth having been achieved and the economy facing greater difficulties than
ever before. At the beginning, agricultural production rose sharply with
the high point being reached in 1970/71. Subsequently, weather conditions
ceased to be favorable and production declined, especially in 1972/73 when
drought affected large areas of the country. Although there was some recovery
in 1973/74, food shortages persisted and the Government had to import food-
grains to sustain the public distribution system on which much of society,
especially the poorest section, is dependent. With agriculture accounting
for 40% or so of National Income, and thus having an all pervasive influence
on economic activity, it is not surprising that the acceleration in the
growth rate of the economy at the beginning of the Plan period gave way in
the later years to stagnation. This depressing outcome was associated with
other adverse developments. A serious deterioration took place in India's
terms of trade and compounded the balance of payments difficulties. Then,
shortages of food and raw materials touched off an unprecedented inflationary
spiral fueled by large budgetary deficits whiclh were attributable, in part
at least, to expenditures for drought relief. And finally, persistent power
shortages have constrained many sectors of the economy.
4.        Internationally, 1973 witnessed sharp increases in the price not
only of oil but also amongst a wide range of India's essential imports,
especially fertilizer, fertilizer raw materials and foodgrain. GOI responded
to this situation by raising sharply the tax on petroleum products and re-
examining energy policy and investment programs as explained in the Economic



- 2 -
Report (402-IN) distributed on May 20, 1974. However, the adjustment process
is bound to take time and will require the redeployment of resources as well
as their supplementation.
Trends in 1974/75
5.        Against this background, the failure of yet another monsoon this
summer highlights the vulnerability of India's economy. It is the conjunction
of these repeated setbacks in agriculture and serious infrastructure deficien-
cies which leaves India so ill equipped to deal with the adjustments to the
economy necessitated by the inflation and scarcity which presently pervade
the world.
6.        The immediate problem is the food situation.   Foodgrain production
in 1974/75 is not likely to exceed 100 million tons which is well below the
minimum requirement for an already undernourished population. The resulting
scarcity has led to rapidly rising prices, which by mid 1974 were about
30 percent higher than the level in mid 1973, and hoarding. The public
distribution system xill require un to 12 million tons for issue in 1974/75
but the Government of India (GOI) is experiencing great difficulty in pro-
curing the necessary amount of foodgrain, while at the same time wishing to
avoid adding to the upward pressure on prices.   As a result GOI may have to
import anything from 5-7 million tons of foodgrain compared with an average
level of imports over 1969-73 of 2.5 million tons.
7.        The drop in foodgrain production is part of an overall decline in
agricultural output which, as before, has affected the whole economy, and
especially, the industrial sector as 40% of industrial output relies upon
agriculturally based raw materials. Industry also suffered from chronic
power shortages and a shortage of imported raw materials. As a consequence,
industrial production expanded by less than 1% in 1973/74 and there is little
sign of any significant improvement so far this year. In addition, the sharply
higher export earnings and improvements in the availability of net aid and
other resources have been largely offset by the effect of worldwide inflation
upon the cost to India of essential imports.
8.        Another grave problem is the rampant domestic inflation stemming
very largely from the scarcity of commodities. The rate of growth in
money supply has been brought down progressively over the past year. Even
so, the Government and the Reserve Bank of India decided in July 1974 that
more stringent control of credit was necessary and introduced measures which
further strengthened those introduced in October 1973. As a consequence,
the expansion of money supply over the twelve month periods up to the end of
November 1973 and 1974 has slowed down markedly from 19 to 11 percent
respectively. Both consumption and investment were affected by these
measures but more recently some ad hoc relaxations have been granted to the
corporate sector to maintain investment and further ways of safeguarding
corporate sector investment activity are being examined. Government has also
taken action through a supplementary budget introduced at the end of July to
reduce the projected budgetary deficit by raising revenues and by cutting back
development expenditures quite severely. These various actions appear now to



- 3 -
have achieved some results as the rate of inflation has declined from the
annual rate of 30 percent whiclh was being exnerienced in mid 1974, to 23
percent by the end of November 1974.
Domestic Resource Position
9.        The growth rate of the economy over the Fourth Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74) was about 3.5% p.a. with this average very much affected by the low
rate of less than 2% growth in 1971/72 and no increase in 1972/73. Even
though there was some recovery in 1973/74, and provisional estimates indicate
that the rate may have been about 6%, the generally. low rate of growth nas
exacerbated the difficulty of mobilizing resources from a population with a
per capita income of US$110. Indeed, net investment over the past three
years has declined quite sharply from an estimated 12.9% of national income
in 1971/72 to possibly only 10.5% in 1973/74. Two thirds of this decline
is attributable to the percentage decrease in net domestic savings and the
balance to a percentage reduction in the inflow of foreign resources.     As a
result, there are no real prospects of generating the resources required to
achieve even the modest growth rate of 5.5% p.a. proposed in the draft Fifth
Plan (1974/75 - 1978/79).   This has been strikingly demonstrated at the
outset of tne Plan period by the July Supplementary Budget. Additional
revenue raising measures, including significant increases in tariffs for
Railways and Posts and Telegraphs, are expected to produce an 8% increase
in revenues. Nevertheless, development expenditures have still got to be
severely curtailed on account of price inflation and a decrease in real terms
of 20% or more is expected. GOI has given priority to maintaining investment
in energy and agriculture and, in these circumstances, this priority can only
be accommodated by cuts in other sectors, where new project starts are likely
to be deferred and the implementation of on-going projects slowed down.
Import Requirements
10.       Priorities have had to be set for imports because there has always
been a shortage of foreign exchange and these priorities have not changed
over time. The first priority is to import sufficient foodgrains to maintain
a minimum supply in the country. The next is to import fertilizer as well as
fertilizer raw materials and petroleum as these are crucial to support
agricultural production and to keep transport and other essential parts of
the economy functioning. In third place, there are raw materials for industry
and essential capital equipment. The significance of meeting these priorities
can be easily demonstrated (Annex VI). For instance, in 1969/70, foodgrains
accounted for 16% of total imports, in 1974/75 the percentage may be up to
23%. More dramatic is the percentage change for fertilizer and petroleum;
these accounted for another 16% in 1969/70 of total imports but in 1974/75
are expected to account for 35%. Consequently, the proportion for the
balance of imports, including industrial raw materials, has been severely
compressed from 68% of total imports in 1969/70 to about 42% expected in
1974/75. Even though the total value of imports has escalated sharply, the
foreign exchange available for industrial raw materials has shown little or
no increase in real terms as a result of this compression and the effect of
inflation.



4-
Export Performance
11.       Historically, India's export performance has been disappointing
with a growth rate in earnings of only about 3% in the decade up to 1969/70.
In the past four years, earnings have increased at a much higher rate of just
under 12% p.a. but much of this has been attributable to price increases.
A sample assessment of volume trends over the past four years shows that
volume growth was probably not much more than 5% p.a. The most striking
contrast between earnings and volume growth occurred last year (1973/74)
when earnings rose sharply by 22% while the volume increase was probably
only between 2 and 3%. Nevertheless, there have been some significant shifts
in the source and direction of export earnings. Over the period 1971/72-
1973/74, the percentage of export earnings from non-traditional items, that
is excluding cotton and jute textiles and tea, was 72% compared with about 46%
in the mid-1950s; thus, some diversification is taking place although aided,
of course, by the fact that inflation has primarily benefitted the non-
traditional items. Also, prior to 1972/73, exports to Eastern European countries
had been rising much more rapidly than to the rest of the world. In 1973/74,
this trend was sharply reversed with earnings to Eastern Europe remaining
the same as in 1972/73 and all the increase coming from the rest of the world,
principally Western Europe. However, it is still too early to assess, with
any confidence, the reason for this sudden shift, which represents a 40%
increase in earnings from the rest of the world. So far during 1974/75,
export earnings have again been buoyant, so much so that total earnings for
1974/75 are now expected to reach US$4.0 billion or 29% more than in 1973/74.
Substantial earnings are being made from sugar, and from non-traditional
items including engineering goods from which an increase of 40% is expected.
This performance is the one bright spot on the economic scene, and all the
more so if it is associated with a significant increase in volume terms.
An effect of this improvement is that India's debt service ratio is expected
to show a sharp decline from about 23% in 1973/74 to about 18% in the current
fiscal year, 1974/75. However, this ratio is likely to rise in the future
given the magnitude of India's requirements and the unavoidability of having
to finance part of these on non-concessional terms. GOI has recently been
actively concerned to expand further export earnings and has set up a
committee to make proposals on policies required to improve export performance.
This committee is expected to report in the first half of 1975.
The Availability of External Assistance
12.       India has been the recipient of substantial external assistance
particularly since the mid-1950's but in terms of her needs and in relation
to the size of her population, the amount has only been modest compared with
most other developing countries. Particularly striking, until just recently,
was the rapid decline of net aid from 1965/66 until 1972/73. Whereas over
the three years 1964/65 to 1966/67, net aid averaged just over US$1,200 million,
over the three years 1970/71 to 1972/73 it declined to an average of only
just under US$400 million (Annex V), or less than a dollar per capita. In
1973/74 this trend was reversed with net aid reaching approximately US$610
million, because of some increase in the level of new commitments and
disbursements, and because the rate of growth of debt service has begun to



- 5 -
level off as a cu1;sequence of the considerable softening of terms since
the nmd-i960s. Net aid for 1974/75 is expected to show a further substantial
improvement to reach US$1 billion and so reinforcing the upward trend started
last year.
Balance of Payments Situation
13.       The prosent forecast for imports in 1974/75 is between US$5.6 and
6 billion (Annex IV). This range in the forecast arises from the uncertainty
surrounding the amount of foodgrain which will be imported. As mentioned in
paragraph 6, the likelihood is that between 5 and 7 million tons will be
needed which would cost from US$0.9-1.3 billion; for the purpose of this
report, the mid-point of US$1.1 billion is taken. Then, in order to maintain
fertilizer and fertili: -r raw materials at approximately the level in the
two preceding years, US$750 million will be required or about two and half
times what the same quantities cost last year. Added to this the oil bill
is expected to reach US$1.3 billion or five times the cost in 1972/73 even
though the volume of oil imports is to be kept down to the level of that
year. Of the balance of US$2.7 billion, US$1.9 billion will be available
for industrial raw materials and US$0.8 billion will be shared between
capital goods and miscellaneous items.
14.       Export earnings are forecast to reach US$4.0 billion which leaves
a balance of US$1.8 billion to be financed from aid and other sources. Net
aid disbursements are expected to be just over US$1 billion, which includes
estimated net aid from Consortium members of US$665 million and a presently
estimated net contribution from non-Consortium countries, including credits
from oil producers, of US$355 million. GOI has drawn its first allocation
of US$240 million from India's quota of about US$770 million under the IMF
Oil Facility; arrangements for drawing the balance have still to be made.
GOI has also drawn India's gold and first credit tranche from the IMF
amounting to US$375 million, which represents a depletion of the reserve
credit facilities available to India. Net aid disbursements together with
these various IMF drawings amount to about US$1.6 billion, thus leaving,
according to present estimates, a deficit of around US$200 million still
to be met. With reserves at the modest level of about US$1,480 million at
the end of November 1974, or the equivalent of only 3 months imports, GOI
clearly has little room to maneuver in managing the balance of payments.
The situation will become all the more acute, if a higher level of foodgrain
imports than assumed here becomes necessary and if these imports have to be
purchased with India's own limited foreign exchange resources.
Prospects for 1975/76
15.       The prospects for the first half of 1975/76 are not at all
encouraging. Even with foodgrain imports, food is likely to remain in
short supply and the early part of 1975 is likely to witness severe hardship
being endured over large areas of the country. Demand will be adversely
affected, especially consumer demand, while a general slow down in investment
activity, apart from the high priority industries manufacturing electrical,
transport, and agricultural equipment, is expected. On the other hand, the



- 6 -
Government's measures are beginning to moderate the rate of inflation and
investment activity in the high priority industries just mentioned should be
maintained.
16.       Tne balance of payments outlook is also grim.    No significant
change is expected in the price of oil and fertilizer and hence in the import
bill for these items. Even if there is a good monsoon, foodgrain imports
are still likely to be required to meet the needs of an ever expanding
population and re-stocking the public distribution system. Thus, it would
not be prudent to assume that import requirements in 1975/76 for oil, fertil-
izer, and foodgrain will be much different from this year. Export performance
could continue to be good but much will depend upon international market
conditions which are most uncertain at this time. Likewise, the prospects
for additional aid and special assistance from oil producers or the IMF to
help meet the cost of oil imports are hard to predict. Thus, overall,
there is little prospect of any change in the balance of payments position.
For industry, this means that the foreign exchange available for imports
may limit the volume of imports in 1975/76 to no higher, at best, than the
volume received this year, thus restricting the expansion of industrial
output.
17.       The prospects for the latter half of 1975/76 depend almost
entirely upon weather conditions during the 1975 kharif (summer) season.
A good monsoon should not only lead to a reduction in food prices, thereby
helping to curb inflationary pressures, but should also fill up the reservoirs
thus easing the power situation. However, until the harvest comes in, it
is the realities of India's present situation and the urgent need for the
transfer of resources which have to be faced.
The Case for Non-Project Assistance
18.       India's present domestic resource situation and the inadequate
foreign exchange available to supplement these domestic resources with
imports is the basis for aid assistance and more specifically for non-project
assistance. In particular, the case for non-project assistance arises from
the need for external assistance to match India's most urgent import require-
ments to improve and expand production. This need stems from the structure
of the economy, and in particular the large capital goods industry which
means that there are limits to the extent to which assistance can be in the
form of project aid that finances imported equipment. Indeed, the bulk of
India's imports comprise raw materials, components and foodgrains, which have
accounted for nearly 80% of total imports over the past five years (Annex VI),
and so a significant proportion of foreign assistance should be available
to finance these requirements and thereby to maintain, and possibly expand,
industrial output from existing capacity. In view of India's balance of
payments situation, it is also essential that non-project assistance should
be in the form that facilitates a speedy and effective transfer. This
transfer will create additional budgetary or counterpart resources for the
Government which should help in the task of making adjustments in the
development program.



19.       Non-project assistance availability has declined Ol r ' the past few
years from about US$870 million in 1969/70, or half of the cos. of imported
foodgrain and raw materials, to just under US$500 million in 1972/73, or
only 25%. of these imports. However, an encouraging response from aid donors,
especially Consortium members, to India's aid requirements in general and for
non-project assistance in particular, has resulted in this trend being reversed
with non-project assistance of just under US$800 million in 1973/74 and up to
US$1 billion projected for 1974/75. In terms of percentage contribution
towards imports of foodgrain and raw materials, these new. figures represent
little change on the low percentage reached in 1972/73. However, the limitations
on the use of bilateral non-project assistance have been greatly eased in
recent years. Furthermore, since 1968/69, the Consortium members have been
providing debt relief, which is equivalent to non-project assistance in most
respects, and the most recent set of agreements covering 1974/75 is for
US$194 million which compares with an average of US$125 million from 1968/69
to 1973/74 and with debt service payments to these countries of US$635 mil-
lion in 1974/75.
20.       Over the past decade, the Association has approved nine industrial
Imnorts Credits for a total of US$930 million which, in view of the untied
nature of IDA financing, is equivalent in most respects to free foreign
,exchange. The case for yet further freely usable foreign exchange assistance
from IDA is that India has an urgent need for supplemtnary resources in this
form. The Association can also make free foreign exchange available through
local currency financing related to projects. Disbursements for local
currency expenditures have increased sharply in recent years and in FY1975
may reach about US$140 million out of total project disbursements of about
US$230 million. Both figures reflect an improvement in project implementa-
tion. However the latter only represents about 38% of expected commitments
for projects this fiscal year. Disbursement rates are very much dependent
upon the nature of the project. Those projects directed towards particularly
difficult parts of the economy, especially those concerned with the rural
poor, are generally slow disbursing and often encounter implementation
problems which extend further the period required for completion. Some IDA
financed projects have been designed to help a sector, i.e. railways, tele-
communications and agricultural credit, and these sectoral projects offer
somewhat faster rates of dfsbursements than the other projects, and they too
can include local currency financing. Thus the Association has some choice
in the mix of project types but in the short term, and especially with the
amount of funds fer commitment rising, a more rapidly disbursing form of credit
is desirable in order to improve the rate at which committed funds can be
transferred.  The effect of the Ninth Industrial Imports Credit approved in
May 1974 and initial disbursements inder the proposed credit should be to
raise total IDA disbursements for FY19175-to US$430 mi,llion or 71% of total
IDA commitments in that year. Through the Industrial Imports Credi-s, the
Association has been able, and would under the proposed credit continue to be
able, to complement the efforts being made by Consortium members to make
available resources in a more timely fashion to meet the urgent needs of
the country.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
21.       Since 1949. the Bank Group has made 42 loans and 62 development
credits to India totaling US$1,229 million and US$2,880 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$660 million has been
repaid and US$1,063 million was still undisbursed as of November 30, 1974.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of November 30,
1974 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
22.       Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totaling IUS$42.3
million, of which US$7.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled.   Of the balance of US$20.8 million, 1S$13.7 million
represents loans and US$7.1 million equity.   A summary statemeat of IFC
operations as of November 30, 1974 is also included in Annex II (page 2).
23.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultu-.al credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, and seed development are other agricul-
tural activities supported by the Bank Group. In recognition of the import-
ance of adequate fertilizer supplies for agricultural output, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of fertilizer production. Apart
from investments in fertilizer plants, the Bank Group has lent support to
the industrial sector through its sizeable assistance to development finance
institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium and small-
scale enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components
for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in these sectors. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supplv development, and related
urban investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
24.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector has been further emphasized
in the present world commodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs, credit
and on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation
schemes, and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next few years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
designed to increase the productivity of small farmers and landless laborers.
Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus
on projects concerned with improving power availability and increasing the
use of coal. Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority in
this context, and discussions are under way with the Government in an effort
to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to improve coal
production and its transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has
been an important feature in recent years, is expected to continue to occupy
a prominent place in the future program.



- 9 -
2 5.      Of tlih external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank C-oup has grown significantly.   In 1969/70 the Bank
Group accourteA for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 27% and 37%
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on Miarch 31, 1973 the Bank Group share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 21%, by 1979 it is projected
to account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is pre-
dominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will
rise slowly. In 1973/74 about 12% of India's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.
PART III - INDUSTRY
26.       Over the past two decades the Government followed a policy of
vigorous import substitution which gave rise to quite a rapid growth of
industrial output of about 9% per annum during the late 1950's and the first
half of the 1960's. As a consequence by the middle 1960's India had developed
an industrial structure capable of producing a wide diversity of goods, in-
cluding highly sophisticated items. However, since 1966 the record of indus-
trial growth has been disappointing, having averaged less than 4% in the
seven years through 1972 (Annex VII). Miore recently, the record has been
even more disappointing with a growth in output of less than 1% in 1973 and
the expectation that there was little, if any, more in 1974.
27.       The reason for the poor record of recent years is complex, but
undoubtedly important factors have been the overall stagnation of the economy,
the dependence of the sector on agriculturally based raw materials, and the
economic and social environment. The drought induced periods of stagnation
over 1965-67 and over the past three years have had such a severe impact on
the economy that the average rate of growth for the economy from 1965/66 to
1972/73 has been just under 3.5%. This stagnation set in just after the
potential for import substitution had been largely exploited, thus there
was no other internal stimulus to industrial activity. Exports could, of
course, have provided some stimulus but until very recently export develop-
ment has been given inadequate attention.
28.       The other factor has been that about 40% of industrial activity is
dependent upon domestically produced agricultural raw materials. So drought
conditions have a direct and severe impact on this sector. Finally, there
is the economic and social environment. Industrial policy has to balance
the conflicting political aims of a vast population, the majority of whom
are deprived of any reasonable standard of living. In such circumstances,
the concentration of wealth and the wielding of economic power are matters
of overriding concern, and have led to a system of controls for the indus-
trial sector that appear on occasion to be in conflict with the need to
exploit more fully India's comparative advantage. Against this general
background, certain aspects are reviewed below.



- 10 -
Industrial Policy Administration
29.       There are three main elements of industrial policy administration,
industrial licensing, price controls, and import licensing.     In February 1973,
the Government made an announcement which re-confirmed the areas for private
and public sector activity and clarified the criteria for expansion by large
industrial houses and investment by foreign corporations. The Government
also said that a single secretariat would be set up to streamline adminis-
trative procedures for the granting of industrial licenses. This announcement
was well received by the private sector at the time, and since then there
is a clear consensus that administrative arrangements have improved under the
new Secretariat for Industrial Approvals.
30.       On the second element, the decontrol of finished goods prices has
been effected for a number of items and most recently, July-October 1974,
tractors, all categories of commercial vehicles and tires were decon.rollea.
Instead, the Government has asked industry to exercise self-restraint in
raising prices. however the prices of some domestic raw materials or inter-
mediate products are still set by Government (i.e. steel and cement). For
many years, the Government has endeavored to keep the price of domestic steel
down with serious consequences for the financial position of the steel mills.
The Government has recently permitted a series of increases which have had
the effect of bringing a range of steel products closer to international
prices, although still some 10 to 20% below the prices now (December 1974)
prevailing in Western European, US and Japanese markets.
31.       The third element is import licensing.    Until recently the import
of many items was banned if local manufacturing facilities existed. This
took no account of the ability of local manufacturers to produce the quantity
required in time and to a quality standard which would enable production
activity to be maintained. Yet now, within the severe foreign exchange
constraint under the econimy has to operate, significant attempts have been
made at offering some liberalization of import policy. In the case of
priority industries, 5% of import licenses may be used freely for productive
purposes. In the case of exporters, 10% of replenishment licenses (import
licenses obtained in respect of the import content of exports) may be used
freely. In addition, the Government nas been more forthcoming in issuing
licenses in order to maintain production.
32.       More generally, the emphasis on import substitution in the period
up to 1965 resulted in industrial policy incorporating many restrictive
features.  Then, with growing balance of payments difficulties from 1965
onward and increasing social and political pressures regarding ownership
and control, restrictions came to be extended over a wider field. Although
some real improvements in administration have taken place over the past
two years, much of industrial policy still remains essentially restrictive.
The need for a more positive approach, within the constraints which apply
to the economy as a whole, is recognized as matter of some urgency. In
November this year, the Minister of Industrial Development and Civil Supplies
set up a panel to develop a policy which will emphasize production and



- 11 -
improved performance. The results of this panel's work should become known
during the first half of 1975.
Export Performance and Incentives
33.       Exports of engineering goods as a whole increased at 20% p.a. over
the period 1968/69 to 1973/74. Bicycles and bicycle parts, auto ancillaries
and diesel engines provided most of the growth. Electrical goL.s, especially
transmission towers, have also expanded rapidly as have exports of machine
tools and textile machinery. The most interesting feature of this growth
has been the marked shift to Europe and the U.S. A portion of the goods
involved in the shift are components supplied under collaboration agreements
and this demonstrates the growing acceptability of Indian products and price
competitiveness. Markets in Africa and South Asia have also been expanded
which is an encouraging trend, given the appropriateness of many Indian
products for the conditions to be found in these areas.
34.       Export incentives comprise (i) cash assistance at rates that are
specific to each product, but, in general, range from 10 to 25% of f.o.b.
prices for engineering goods; (ii) import replenishment entitlements (REPs)
which represent the import content of exports; REPs are additional to ordinary
import license allocations, are granted in free foreign exchange and 10%
may oe used freely for productive purposes; (iii) import duty and excise tax
drawbacks. A persistent complaint has been that while these incentives are
reasonable, poor administration has destroyed their beneficial effect. In
1973, and more recently in April this year, procedures were modified to
introduce a degree of automaticity; 85% of cash assistance is now paid on
submission of shipping documents with the balance adjusted after review of
these documents. Further, the time required for the issue of REPs has also
been greatly reduced, as regular exporters receive licenses monthly based
upon an estimate of annual exports. Exporters have commented favorably on
these changes which mark a new concern of the Government with export promotion.
The Power Situation
35.       During the past three years power shortages have caused serious
dislocation of industrial production. An underlying cause has been the
slow growth of installed generating capacity during the Fourth Plan period,
so that while effective demand for electric power was probably rising at
about 10% p.a., the average annual increase in generating capacity was just
over 5%. Prolonged delays in executing civil works for power projects
delayed completion of nearly one-third of the capacity proposed under the
Fourth Plan, while slow delivery of power equipment and the inadequacy of
the transmission system were also factors in the slow implementation.
36.       For thermal stations, which supply about half the total power
generated, there has been little change over the past three years in the
average plant load factor and performance has proved variable over time and
between locations. In some cases, fuel supplies have been a problem, notably



- 12 -
in the lignite-based station at Nyveli in Tamil Nadu and at coal burning
stations in the south and west which are remote from coal fields. Where
coal supplies have been available, the quality has been variable. In add-
ition, equipment has been out of commission for periods much longer than
would normally be required for routine maintenance, while labor unrest has
led to operating problems in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. For
hydro power the unusually low rainfall in 1972, together with a low snow
melt from the Himalayan range, led to a decline in generation.
37,       During 1973/74 the output of power was probably little more than
in the previous year. Hydro generation improved somewhat, following a general-
ly favorable 1973 monsoon and there was also an increase in supply from the
nuclear stations. But, the output from thermal stations apparently declined
slightly, largely on account of operating problems. For the first half of
this year, the estimated availability of power came to about 83% of require-
ments for existing users, although there is considerable uncertainty as to
what the level of demand would be if supply constraints did not exist.
38.       The incidence and effect of shortages over the first half of the
year has varied between different parts of the country.   For instance, in
the North, availability fell 20% below estimated requirements. This area
accounts for about 15% of industrial output and is important for mini steel
plants, a wide range of engineering industries, and one of India's three
aluminum smelters. In West Bengal and Bihar area, which accounts for 25% of
industrial output, the power shortages were chronic from May through July,
although latterly there has been some improvement, especially in the Damodar
Valley Corporation system. However, these shortages dislocated the jute
industry, a large part of India's steel making capacity and a vast range of
engineering enterprises concentrated round Calcutta. Shortages also affected
the South with consequences for the machine tool, automobile and tractor
industries. Only in the Western regi,n has there been no more than a marginal
shortfall below estimated requirements. Even so, unplanned load shedding has
caused disruptions to the many industries in an area which accounts for the
major part, 40% or thereabouts, of the total industrial output.
39.       The prospects for 1975 have to be considered separately for hydro
and thermal generation. In the case of hydro, there are units primarily
dependent upon snow melt in the Himalayas (i.e. those in North Western India)
and those which depend upon the monsoon (i.e. Western, Central and Southern
India). The monsoon has proved to be much more variable than snow melt
conditions, so in all probability units in the North West can expect their
reservoirs to reach a reasonable level by late spring of 1975. In the case
of thermal generation, the current difficulties vary between units. Where
there are maintenance or technical problems, the solution is not likely
to be immediate. Where coal shortage has been a constraint, some improvement
can be expected as a result of GOI's program to improve transportation and
production. At the same time, the Government's program for planned load
shedding in the face of the shortage of power is enabling industrialist's to
make more effective use of the power that is available. In addition, a
substantial number of new units, which were started during the Fourth Plan



- 13 -
period but aeever cc. -p±eed, are expected to come into operation during 1975.
These units amount to 2 003 izif which represents 10% of presently installed
capacity. Cv-rall, some improvement in the availability of power can be
expected and if the monsoon is good, then this improvement could be further
supplemented by better output from the monsoon-dependent hydro units.
Availability of industrial Raw Materials
40.       Steel.  The Indian Steel Industry has the capacity to produce in
excess of domestic requirements for a wide range of products. But for many
years the industry has been plagued by low capacity utilization which still
persists. These shortfalls combined with limited foreign exchange for imports
has meant that steel availability has been well below industry requirements,
thus limiting the output of engineering goods as well as other steel using
products. In 1973/74 availability dropped 10% below the previous year to
5.8 million tons, partly on account of a decline in domestic production
attributable to power shortages and partly because the quantity of steel
imports was restricted. In 1974/75 availability should improve by 20% above
last year to 7.0 million tons. Imports of one million tons are planned and
a further one mrillion ton is expected from arc furnaces using scrap, which
recently have been expanding their output rapidly. Except for about 250,000
tons, imports comprise products which are not made in India; the exception
is hot rolled coils which should be met from domestic sources during 1975.
The mechanism for allocating domestic steel is still fairly complex despite
efforts to simplify the system. However, for 1974/75, overall availability
is expected to meet the industry's needs at the low levels of output expected;
indeed for certain products, especially those required for construction, there
may be a modest exportable surplus.
41.       Aluminum.  India has been self-sufficient for a number of years
and this industry has great potential in view of the availability of bauxite.
But, production has declined sharply over the past two years, because of
acute shortages of power, from 180,000 tons in 1971/72 to only 130,000 tons
expected this fiscal year. Little relief can be expected over the short term
and so GOI is acting to protect supplies of aluminum for essential industries,
in particular, manufacturers of electrical goods and auto ancilliaries. A
distribution scheme was introduced in July 1974 and domestic supplies will be
supplemented by imports at least 10,000 tons.
42.       Cotton.  Cotton production supports industries contributing just
over 20% of industrial output. As with other crops, cotton has been affected
by poor rainfall and production in 1973/74 was only 6 million bales compared
with an industry requirement of around 7 million bales and peak production
of 6.6 million bales in 1971/72. In the past the shortfall in requirements
has been met through imports. However, shortage of foreign exchange has
forced GOI to limit imports and this fiscal year only 0.3 to 0.4 million bales
will be brought in.



- 14 -
43.       Jute.  Jute manufacture, which accounts for about 8% of industrial
output, presents a more serious picture than cotton with production this
fiscal year expected to be no more than 5 million compared with 8 million
bales last year, while the industry's requirement is about 7.2 million bales.
However serious disruptions in the industry last year because of power
shortages has meant that there is a carry-over of stocks which should provide
enough for the rest of this fiscal year, but in 1975/76 the supply position
will become very difficult.
Transport Problems
44.       Transport bottlenecks, particularly on the railways, have also
affected industry. Over the past 18 months, railways movements have been
disrupted by labor agitation culminating in the major 20-day strike in
May 1974. However, to the credit of Indian Railways, the movement of
essential commodities (e.g. coal and iron or to major consumers, such as
steel mills and power plants were maintained during the strike. There have
also been complaints about the non-availability of wagons, long transit
times and losses due to pilferage. As a result a growing proportion of
traffic, which can bear higher freight rates, is being diverted to road
transport. This is a worldwide plhenomenon but in India it appears to be
happening faster than expected. Not surprisingly, in these circumstances,
road transport use has been growing fast, at about 12% per year. Road
transport is not just limited to short and medium distances, but is being
used for long hauls such as Delhi-Calcutta or Bombay-Madras. It is also
important for India's exports as shown in a recent study of the Domestic
Transport of India's Export Cargo which found that, excluding ores, two-
thirds of export cargo in value terms and half in weight move by road to
the ports. The main reasons given by exporters for not selecting rail
transport were: (a) long and uncertain transit times; (b) absence of ready
availability of rail transport; and (c) fear of theft. Exporters are
also faced with severe bottlenecks in the ports as ship turn round times
remain high because of delays in the modernization and expansion programs
at various ports. Further, cargo handling costs at Indian ports compare
unfavorably with the average performance in the Western countries. Infrequent
services to some countries, notably in the Far East, and high freight costs
are other difficulties the exporter has to face. In time, the situation
should improve as the various on-going port schemes such as Haldia are
completed, and as India expands her commercial fleet.
Labor Unrest
45.       For the first six months of 1974, the number of man days lost of
19 million is double the rate experienced in the two previous years. Part
of this increase was attributable to disputes over retrenchment and lay-offs
in enterprises affected by power shortages; these disputes tended to occur
in the cotton textile mills in north western and southern India. The railway
strike in May 1974, which paralyzed much of the country, contributed nearly
5 million man days to the half yearly total. The Government set out to break
this strike, which it succeeded in doing, and similarly stern action has been



- 15 -
taken more recently (October 1974) in connection with the Calcutta Dock
strike. Against the background of rapid inflation, further labor unrest
is to be expected.
Foreign Exchange Constraint
46.       Underlying all the various difficulties afflicting industry has
been the persistent shortage of foreign exchange, the severity 31 which has
given rise to many of the administrative policies that circumscribe indus-
trial activity. A measure of this shortage has been mentioned in
paragraph 10 above, but more specifically the value of imported industrial
raw materials, excluding petroleum products and fertilizer raw materials,
was US$1 billion in 1969/70 and US$1.6 billion in 1973/74, a rate of
increase which was probably somewhat more than the inflation rate over the
period for these items. However, for 1974/75 the forecast of foreign ex-
change available for these items is about US$1.9 billion or 20% above the
level of the previous year. And yet, prices during the course of this year
have risen by as much as 40% although more recently some moderation in this
rate has become apparent. Nevertheless, the industrial sector is unlikely
to receive in 1974/75 any more imports in volume terms in 1973/74 or indeed
appreciably more than in 1969/70. As the foreign exchange situation is
unlikely to show any improvement, the industrial sector will again have to
make do in 1975/76 with imports at around the 1969/70 level. While India
does produce a wide range of industrial raw materials and components, many
key items, especially for the engineering goods and more sophisticated
industries, have to be imported. This situation places a premium upon the
efficient use of available raw materials as well as serving to emphasize
again the need for assisting India to finance industrial imports.
IDA-Assisted Industries
47.       The IDA-assisted industries have been affected by all the difficul-
ties mentioned above but in varying degrees as described in paragraphs 58-61
below and in Annex XIV. These industries have performed considerably better
than the rest of the sector in part because they operate quite efficiently,
and in part because as high priority industries they have been given pre-
ferential treatment in the supply of materials, power and other facilities.
This has been especially true of foreign exchange allocations and consequently
the continued support of these vital industries is important.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Previous Industrial Imports Credits
48.       Since 1964 the Association has extended nine credits totalling
US$930 million to India for financing imports of raw materials, components
and spares for use by manufacturers in certain high priority industries.



- 16 -
Broadly speaking, the emphasis throughout has been on manufacturers of agri-
cultural equipment, electric equipment, machine tools and transport equip-
ment. The Association's support in these fields has been instrumental in
facilitating fuller use of existing capacities. The flexibility provided
by IDA financing has been especially valuable as compared with bilateral
assistance which is often tied to procurement in donor countries and this is
illustrated by the growing number of countries, including developing countries,
which have benefited from disbursements under these credits (Annex X).
Changes have been made in the list of industries, from time to time, in
response to changing requirements.
49.       The last Industrial Imports Credit (Cr. 474-IN) for US$150 million
was signed on May 29, 1974. The closing date of the Credit is Yovember 30,
1975. As of November 30, 1974, about US$37 million remained to be disbursed.
Import orders have been placed for the balance and the Credit should be
fully disbursed by March 31, 1975, well before the closing date. Approval of
a further credit at this time will assist the Government to ensure an unin-
terrupted flow of maintenance imports to the IDA sectors.
50.       Negotiations were held in Washington from December 16 to 20, 1974.
The Government of India was represented by Dr. A. K. Ghosh, Additional
Secretary, Ministry of Industrial Development and Civil Supplies, and
Mr. V. N. Rajagopalan, Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs
of the Ministry of Finance.
Effectiveness of Industrial Imports Credits
51.       The objective of these Credits has been to achieve a rapid transfer
of resources and to expand production of selected industries. The Credits
have also provided a basis for reviewing industrial performance. So far as
the transfer of resources is concerne, under the Sixth Credit approved in
April 1970, administrative bottlenecks led to slow disbursement. However,
since then there has been an improvement and the last three Credits have been
disbursed in approximately 12 to 15 months with disbursements of US$95 million
in 1973/74 and of US$200 million expected in 1974/75. Over the past few years,
the balance of payments has been under constant pressure and these IDA transfers
have eased the task of making available foreign exchange resources for high
priority industries. The expansion of production has also been creditable
with substantial increases in output being achieved by the selected industries
over the past four years (Annex VIII). There have been fluctuations, most
notably as a consequence of the effect of power shortages on aluminum and
fertilizer production, but the overall trend has been strongly upward in
contrast to the performance of the sector as a whole. As the IDA-assisted
industries all produce high priority items, they would in any case enjoy
preferential treatment from GOI, but nonetheless IDA funds have given them
flexibility in choosing preferred sources of supply and have enabled GOI to
make available more in the way of additional foreign exchange from GOI sources.



- 17 -
52.       In its review of the industrial sector, the Association has
commented in the annual economic reports and the appraisal of these credits
on industrial policy and performance. In particular, the Association has
noted the persistent failure to achieve improvements in the operations of
the steel and fertilizer industries and to adopt more agressive export pro-
motion. With regard to the former, the revision of pricing and distribution
policies are steps in the right direction, but the fact remains that steel
output in 1974/75 is unlikely to be significantly higher than a decade ago
even after adding some 40% additional capacity.   With regard to fertilizer,
GOI has given priority to this industry's requirements which is expected to
lead to operational improvements. In addition in 1970, GOI asked the
Bank Group to assist in financing new fertilizer projects as well as re-
quirements for removing bottlenecks at existing plants. Since then the
Bank Group has approved financial assistance for 7 projects. On export
promotion, an improvement in the administration of incentives has taken
place, but more aggressive promotion and support of industries with export
potential is needed. In more general terms, there have been very definite
efforts to improve administration of industrial policy but these changes
have largely involved the removal of obstacles. It is to be hoped that
positive action for industrial growth will result from the recently
established Industrial Advisory Panel (paragraph 32).
53,       In 1972 the Association decided to develop an industry-specific
basis for exchanging views within the context of the Industrial Imports
Credits. For this purpose, special stadies were undertaken as part of the
appraisal of the Eighth and Ninth Credits. The object of these studies
was to establish within the Association a better understanding of the selected
industry's problems and to provide a basis for making recommendations to
improve the industry's performance. In addition, it was hoped that these
studies would assist Indian financial institutions, as well as the Bank
Group, in identifying new areas for investment. The first of these studies
covered the commercial vehicles and tractor industries and the results were
made available in mid-19730 In the past 18 months the Association has had
discussions on the follow-up of these studies and in October 1974, GOI
completed a report which shows that progress is being made in implementing
the various recommendations. This report is summarized in Annex XIII. In
brief, the report indicates that a number of the technical recommendations
supported the manufacturers' own proposals for design and product development.
The remainder involved changes which have been accepted, although in some
cases with modifications, and progress is being made with their implementation.
However, in the field of management the recommendations tended to be con-
cerned with general principles rather than detail because of the wide
diversity of circumstances encountezed. In some Instance the manufacturers
have questioned the applicability of the recommendations to Indian conditions.
The Association and GOI will continue to review all these aspects with the
manufacturers. With regard to Government policy, a number of useful changes
have been instituted; imports of components have been made more flexible,
and prices of commercial vehicles and tractors have been decontrolled.
Nevertheless, initial follow-up by GOI was slow, as indeed was the response
from the manufacturers. A better understanding of how to handle these studies



- 18 -
has since evolved between the Association, GOI and the manufacturers and this
contributed to the arrangements for the second set of studies covering the
forging and foundry industries which were completed in May 1974. GOI has
distributed these reports and is now arranging for a manufacturer's
association to provide the focal point for follow-up.
54.       In view of the short interval since the presentation of the Ninth
Credit, a special study was not prepared as part of the appraisal of this
credit. However, a study of the textile machinery industry will be carried
out as part of the appraisal of the next credit in order to determine if this
industry should be proposed for inclusion in the list of IDA eligible
industries. GOI has asked the Association to consider assistance for
modernization of the textile industry and the study on textile machinery
manufacture will complement preparatory work on this proposal.
The Proposed Credit
55.       The products of the eligible industries proposed for this credit
fall into four categories (see table in paragraph 57 below). First are
items which support agricultural development and include tractors, power
tillers, electric pumps for irrigation, fertilizer and pesticides, heavy
construction equipment for land leveling and irrigation works. Secondly,
there are commercial vehicles and the eligible list includes automotive
ancillaries, as well as castings and forgings which support the manufacture
of these vehicles and incidentally, also the manufacture of tractors and
heavy construction equipment. Thirdly, there are electrical goods including
heavy electrical generating equipment and transmission and distribution
requirements upto 66 kv. The restriction of the latter to no more than
66 kv has been done to avoid possible double financing under the IDA power
transmission credits. Aluminum smelting, which is also included under the
credit, supports this group. Finally there is capital equipment, i.e.
machine tools, and other general industrial items such as small tools and
ball and roller bearings. Within the electrical goods category, power
generation and boilers has been included for the first time.
56.       The manufacture of power generating equipment and boilers has been
added to the list of eligible industries in view of the priority being given
to the power sector. There is one monopoly manufacturer of power generating
equipment in the public sector (Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. - BHEL) and
ten boiler manufacturers of which two dominate production for power generation,
one in the private sector and the other is BHEL. The performance of these
manufacturers was reviewed as part of the 1973 Energy Study and was found to
be reasonable in terms of price and quality. As they are dependent upon tied
aid credits, a relatively small amount of IDA funds would provide the flexibility
required to ensure an even flow of imported materials. In view of the urgent
need to speed the production of power generating units, an indicative alloca-
tion of US$17 million is proposed out of a total foreign exchange requirement
of US$169 million in 1975/76. BHEL is also undertaking a program over the
next three years to build up a stock of essential spares for existing units



- 19 -
which BHEL services. As non-availability of spares has adversely affected
power generation and as IDA funds can ease the task of obtaining these, an
allocation of US$1 million is proposed out of planned expenditure of US$3
million for 1975/76.
57.        To make IDA assistance as flexible as possible, ceilings on allo-
cations are not proposed with the exception, as in the previous credit, of
supplies for fertilizers and pesticides manufacture, which would be limited
under this credit to US$75 million to avoid an unduly large amount of the
credit being-utilized by these groups. The indicative allocations, which
are shown below, for the other groups have been made largely on the basis
of experience with previous credits and modified to take into account changes
in import requirements and the anticipated availability of other sources of
financing (Annex XII). A comparative statement of disbursements under previous
credits is shown at Annex XI.
INDICATIVE ALLOCATIONS BY SECTOR
Proposed Tenth Credit-/
As Percentage
1975/76                     of Import
Import Requirement     Amount   Requirement
----(US$ million)-----
A. Raw Materials, Components, and
Spare Parts for Manufacturers of:
1.  Tractors and Power Tillers             27              4         15
2.  Fertilizers                           259             70         27
3.  Pesticides                             54              5          9
4.  Electrical Equipment:
(i) Power Generating Equipment
and Boilers                    169            17          10
(ii) Upto 66 KV, including
motors, transformers,
switchgears, stampings,
rables and wires               110            28          25
5. Aluminium Smelting                      18              2         11
6.  Commercial Vehicles                    63             15 24
7.  Automotive Ancillaries                 99             25(        25
8.  Castings and Forgings                  10              2,        20
9.  Machine Tools, Cutting and Small
Tools and Abrasives, Ball and
Roller Bearings                      49             14         28
10,  Heavy Construction Equipment           30              8         27
B. Spare Parts of Existing Equipment
1.  Heavy Earth Moving                     20              9         45
2.  Power Generating                        3              1         33
Total                         911            200          22
1/   Allocations f:om the first US$1CC million provided by the proposed
credit would represent half of these figures.



- 20 -
Performance of the IDA-assisted Industries
58.        The IDA-assisted industries have, on Lhe whole, continued to
perform well. In 1973/74, production of several major items in the electrical
equipment category increased by around 30%, in the auto-ancillary category
by about 20%, while production of tractors went up by 14% and of heavy
construction equipment by 12%. On the other hand, commercial vehicles and
fertilizers showed little or no improvement and aluminum production actually
declined quite sharply. The general features of these developments are
described below, while Annex VIII shows data on performance and Annex XIV
sets out a more detailed review of these industries.
59.       An important reason for this performance has been thaf. the Govern-
ment increased their foreign exchange allocations and also granted greater
flexibility in approving items for importation, especially of components
where local production had been inadequate. For example, although the
automobile ancillaries were able to increase their overall level of output,
thiere was a decline in production of a number of items which they provide
for commercial vehicles, tractors and heavy earthmoving con,truction equipment.
For the first two industries, greater flexibility in use of import licenses
served to prevent declines in output, while for the third this policy allowed
it to continue its rapid growth of recent years.
60.       Although demand constraints have begun to emerge, especially on
the consumer goods, demand for items produced by IDA-assisted industries
remains strong.   For instance, order books for Lommercial vehicles (excluding
jeeps) represent two to three years' production. For tractors a similar
position exists and marks a reversal of the fall off in demand experienced
in 1972. Demand from these sectors has served to support expanded output
of the automotive ancillaries in addition to demand for replacement which
is the principal market.   For machiine tools, most electrical machinery and
neavy eartnmoving construction equipment, current orders represent 12 to
18 months of production. The continued stagnation in the economy is likely
to affect tne order book position, but in the short run, output for this
fiscal year is generally expected to be maintained.
61.        Power shortages have affected all of the IDA industries although
in many cases the impact was alleviated by the use of standby generators.
However, aluminum and fertilizers were seriously affected.     Aluminum production
hias declined sharply to a forecast of 130,000 tons for 1974/75 compared with
180,000 three years ago.   Fertilizer production nas also been affected this
year but much less seriously than last year because of tlhe priority given
to this industry and the more orderly allocation of power. Availability of
power for fertilizer production should improve in view of the priority
attached to this industry and combined witlh new capacity coming on stream
and improvements in operation, production could show a sharp increase of as
much as 50%.



- 21 -
Prospects for 1975/76
62.       For the coming year, the overall situation of industry is very
uncertain in view of possible reduction in demand. On balance, however, the
IDA-assisted industries are expected to show continued growth.
63.       As already mentioned, commercial vehicles face good demand pros-
pects and so do tractors. These in turn should help to sustain the automotive
ancillaries. For capital goods manufacture'rs producing items such as
machine tools, electrical machinery and heavy earthmoving equipment, the
critical factor will be the extent to which the Government can maintain
development expenditures. Efforts will be made to proceed with expansion
programs for power generation, coal and mineral development and irrigation,
but on the other hand, sharp cut backs are expected in road construction and
other civil works. Machine tool output is also likely to suffer from
decreased demand from consumer goods industries as the latter can be expected
to slow down their expansion programs unless their sales show some improve-
ment. However, the machine tool industry will continue to benefit from the
programs for the development of commercial vehicle, heavy earthmoving and
power-generating equipment industries, which require a high proportion (80%
or so) of locally produced capital goods.
Export Prospects
64.       A further element which will tend to support output growth of the
IDA-assisted industries is the possibility for export expansion. While the
engineering industries as a group increased their exports in 1973/74 by about
26%, exports of the IDA-assisted sectors grew by only 12% (Annex IX).
This is not surprising in view of the emphasis given in the selection of
subsectors which produce for domestic investment programs. Nevertheless,
many enterprises have become increasingly aware of export possibilities and
have successfully undertaken export programs of limited scope. Some of
these have been the consequence of export obligations provided for in indus-
trial licenses or collaboration agreements with external partners. Many
firms are confident of their ability to avoid severe production cutbacks by
shifting to export sales.
65.       In general terms, much of the Indian engineering industry can
compete in world markets under current conditions and with the present
export incentive programs. Among those IDA subsectors which show the greatest
potential are machine tools, small power tools, textile machinery, small
electric motors, diesel engines and automotive parts and ancillaries. A
major factor in industry's increasing ability to compete in the manufacture
and export of more elaborated and sophisticated manufactured goods is the
Government policy to promote collaboration agreements with foreign firms.
These have been established by many enterprises in both the public and
private sectors and have provided for a considerable transfer of technology.
In some cases, they have also facilitated export marketing.



- 22 -
Administration of the Credit
66.       As in previous credits, medium and large scale enterprises regis-
tered with the Directorate General of Technical Development (DGTD), and others
as notified, in the sectors to be assisted by IDA will be eligible to utilize
the proposed credit. At present, there are approximately 850 eligible firms.
Imports of raw materials and components by these firms will be effected
either through direct procurement by the firms themselves against import
licenses issued to them, or through public sector trading corporations or
Canalising Agencies as they are known in India. Items imported directly by
eligible firms will not be subject to any special procurement procedures as
these firms can be expected to make purchases on the best terms to meet their
circumstances. Spare parts for heavy earthmoving equipment and power equip-
ment will be procured by dealers authorized by Chief Controller of Imports
and Exports for the purposes of this credit.
67.       The Government has given the Canalising Agencies exclusive rights
to import certain commodities which are suited to bulk orders; in addition
agencies will procure for firms when requested. In today's world of uncertain
prices, the Canalising Agencies perform a valuable function through placement
of bulk import orders and through supply contracts covering longer periods
than individual firms could afford. As in previous credits, the Association
and GOI have agreed that for orders over US$100,000 Canalising Agencies would
secure offers from at least three suppliers. In practice, items supplied
through Canalising Agencies are usually procured through international com-
petitive bidding. In certain cases, after receipt of bids under international
competitive bidding, additional long-term supply contracts have been negotiated
on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid. Exceptionally, the Canalising
Agencies adopt international shopping procedures, in particular, when items
are only available from a limited number of suppliers.
68.       Under the previous Credit, it was agreed that withdrawal applica-
tions need only be accompanied by the standard documentation of evidence of
payment and shipment and supplier's invoice together with a certificate from
the Canalising Agencies concerned that procurement of goods, for which reim-
bursement is being sought, had been conducted in accordance with procedures
in the Development Credit Agreement. The Canalising Agencies were asked
to retain details on procurement to be examined by the Association for
review. This documentation was examined during the appraisal of this Credit
and was found to be in accordance with the requirements of the Ninth Credit.
69.       It is estimated that about US$120 million or 60% of the proposed
credit will be disbursed against imports arranged by these agencies. The
monthly utilization of the proceeds of the IDA credit is expected to be
maintained at around US$20 million until the approved amDunt of the credit
has been exhausted. The credit will be made to GOI on standard IDA terms
and GOI will make the foreign exchange proceeds of the credit available
through the Reserve Bank of India to the specified beneficiaries, which will
purchase foreign exchange with rupee funds through authorized banks. The
credit will not involve any financing of beneficiaries.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. No special conditions of effectiveness are proposed.
71.       The special features described in paragraphs 67 and 68 of this
report are reflected in Schedule 4 (Procurement) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement. In all other respects the Draft Development Credit Agree-
ment follows the pattern used for industrial imports program credits generally
and is in conformity with credits previously approved for India in this sector.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December     , 1974



-4.
TA                      'FtI I2    A
Q".~~~~"  o00  "'an-no   . . .  -.  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A . a  I  I  a~
Z0.  .004 0   O 0%Z
0.0  Oat.  ft  00'-.,
<H  ~~~~~~~~oa,F,<1                                    9
i k 2'-i-:-n               ..~0 
.o.-aaoa,S  ""       '-'000  a,~~~~K
2F~~~~~~~~0.-                00
it 'EX ~ ~ ~ ~ -   00o ~     '
"'   4 50 -



ANqNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC DEVRLOThEIiOT DATA
a!
GlIP PER CAPITA IN 197g: US : 10
GROS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1 972/73                                                   ALNHiUAL RATE OF GROXW7  (S. constant prices)
US $ Bln.                                     13961/62-1 96p5/66  l65/66-1969/70   1970/71-972/73
GNP at ;;arket Prices                     57.7       100.0                                  3.1                 .3              1.0
Gross Domestic Investment                  9.7        16.8
Gross National Saving                      9.2        15.9
Current Account Balance                   -0.5        -0.9
Resource Gap                              -0.2        -0.3
RUTPUT, LABOR NORCTE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN! 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                        labor Forte       V.A. Per 'orker
USL_$Bln.                                           P i in.  *P        US _  , of liational Average
kgriculture                         23.1                1 .8                        130.0   72 .0        178           62
Industry                            15.6                30.2                         24.6   13.7         634          222
Bervices                            12 8                25.0                         25.8   14.3         496          174
rotal/average                       51i5              lOO.O7                        3TJ7    $TOO,        7
)OVERNMEINT FiNACE                                           c/
General Governnentr                                   Central Governnene
Rs. Bln)           'S of ( I,                        (Rs. 31n)             '. c' rGP
1972/73      l1972/73  1 970/771-1972/73             1972/73        i972/73  1970/71-1972/73
'urrent Receipts                   78.71         17.0         16.1                       56.0O          10.0         9.3
.urrent ExPenditures                80.78        17.5         16.2                                      10.0         9.2
'urrent Surplas/De0icRy           - 2.07        - 0.5        - 0.l                        0.36           -           0.1
apital Expenditures -              26.21          5.7          5.5                       19.854          .3         5.0
Ixternal Assistance (net)           3.30          0.7          0.8                        3.30           0.7         0.8
1ONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1965/66   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72-  1972/73   1923/74    August 1973    Au  at 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of peritd)  (est)                        est
loney and Quasi Money                      61.4      93.3     105.6     122.3     144.3     158.3       155.4           177.6
ank Credit to Public Sector                40.8      52.4      56.9      68.9      82.7      90.9        89.3            95.8
ank Credit to Private Sector               28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.4      92.4        77.7            95.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
oney and Quasi Money as % of GDP           24.0      24.1      24.7      26.8      28.5      32.8
holesale Price Index (1961/62 - 100)      131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.0     283.6       251.1           323.1
nnual percentage changes in:
holesale Price Index                        7.6       3.7       5.5       4.0       9.9      22.7        21.0            28.7
ank Credit to Public Sector                12.9       1.5       8.6      21.1      20.0       9.9        26.3             9.2
ank Credit to Private Sector               12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      13.5      20.9        19.7            23.2
/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Estimates.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



353EZX T
Page 3
JALANCE OF PAYHENTS                                 1971/72   1972/73   1973/7L           MERGXAIDTSE EXPORTS (AVERJACE 1971./72-.973/74),
-.                                 Tht~~~~~~~~~Mllicn US )J5$Fn
Exports of Goods                                     2,160     2,565     3,105      Jute Manufacturers                 324            12
Imports of Goods                                     2,572     2,664     3,663      Tea                                195             7
Trade Balance                                        - 412     - 119       560      Cotton Textiles                    241             9
tFS (net)                                            -  43     - 146      n.a.      Iron tue                           151             6
Rescurce Gap                                         - 66O     - 265      n         Bagineesinr 6oods                  193             7
interest Payments (net)                              - 230     -237       n.a.-     Others                           1,521
Otner Factor Payments (net)                          -                                                               ,2 -  8  n.a.  Total  2,623  1°
Net Transfers                                          358     -  50      n.a.
3alance on Current Account                           - 339     - 560      n.e.     --          -         . I
Official Aid                                                                                                                       i   I;;r
:tepayable in foreign currency                  9,292
Disuhrsements                                   1 ,CP9      896      1,175c/   Repayable through export, of goods                5G0
Amortization                                    - 385     -08          .a,-
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                9, 2
Tranisactiorns  iti: 1I-F                              -         -          75
All Other lanem                                      - 1l,0      106      n,a.
G0DET SERVICE P-ATIO FOP. 1973/76              23.2 persenor
Increase ir. Reserves (-)                            - 225     -  36     - 106
Cross Reserves (end rear)                            1,277     1,311      1,417
Net Reserves (end year)                              1,277     1,311      1,417     lit.Z/IA iL$DlNG, AU(7JST 31, 1974           tIlt lilt.)
Fuel and Relatid tDAterle                                                                                                      13fl1         i1
Imports                                                262       265        715     Outstanding and Disbursed                  457       2,068
of whicn:   Pe;roleun                                261       265        715    lJndisbursed                                 79         938
Exports                                                 31        b1         20     Outstandin, il. j .nli'ursed               536       3,006
of which:  Petroleuml                                  5        37         16
Prior to =Ld-Decetber 197n       $ i.00 - b.    7.5                                en.  d june 3972   :Soa.ing Rate
Rs. 1.00 "US $ 0.133333
Spot Rate (Nov. 8, 1974):   approx. US$ 1.00 =s. 8.11
R4td4-ee*en   r 197i to       : US $ 1.00    Rs. 7.27927                                                    approx. Rs. 1.00  0US60.123
end oune 1972              Rs. 1.00 = 05$ 0.137376
e/ AmortLzaticli and interest payments (US$720 million) as a percentage of merchandise exports.      Breakdown of amortization and interest not available.



THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA           Page 1
A. STATEMENT OE BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of November 30, 1974)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower          Purpose                      Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
37 Loans/
29 Credits fully disbursed                                            993.6  1,498.9
614-IN       1969    India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0       -        7.4
176-IN       1970   India     Kadana Irrigation                       -      35.0       6.5
683-IN       1970    ICICI    Industries DFC VIII                   40.0       -        1.2
191-IN       1970    India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit             -      35.0       0.9
203-IN       1970    India    Punjab Agricultural Credit              -      27.5      25.7
226TIN       1971    India    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -    . 24.4       7.7
241-IN        1971   India    Telecommunications IV                   -      78.0      18.9
242-IN       1971    India    Power Transmission II                   -      75.0      65.5
249-IN       1971    India    Haryana Agricultural Credit             -      25.0      15.4
250-IN       1971    India    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit          -      35.0      11.3
264TIN       1971    India    Cochin II Fertilizer                    -      20.0       8.1
267-IN       1971    India    Wheat Storage                           -       5.0       4.8
268-IN       1971    India    Pochampad Irrigation                    -      39.0      11.5
789-IN       1971    ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0       -        9.4
278-IN        1972   India    Mysore Agricultural Credit              -      40.0      27.o
279-IN        1972   India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion          -      10.0       2.8
293-IN        1972   India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit         -      30.0      11.2
294-IN       1972    India    Bihar Agricultural Markets              -      14.0       14.0
312-IN       1972    India    Population                              -      21.2       19.1
342-IN       1972    India    Education Project                       -      12.0       12.0
356-IN        1972   India    IDBI                                    -      25.0      25.0
357-IN       1973    India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion             -      58.0      47.3
377-IN       1973   India     Power Transmission III                  -      85.0      85.0
378-IN       1973    India    Mysore Agricultural Markets             -       8.0        8.0
902-IN       1973    ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0       -       53.5
390-IN       1973    India    Bombay Water Supply                     -      55.0      54.1
391-IN        1973   India    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -      33.0      26.9
392-IN       1973    India    UP Agricultural Credit                  -      38.0      32.7
403-IN        1973   India    Telecommunications V                    -      80.0       80.0
427-IN        1973   India    Calcutta Urban Development              -      35.0       33.1
440-IN        1973   India    Bihar Agricultural Credit               -      32.0       29.4
448-IN        1973   India    Railways XII                            -      80.0      42.4
456-IN        1974   India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing         -      13.0       13.0
474-IN        1974   India    Industrial Imports IX                   -     150.0      37.4
481-IN        1974   India    Trombay IV                              -      50.0       50.0
1011-TN        1974   India    Chambal (R)                           52.0*      -        52.0
482-IN        1974   India    Karnataka Dairy                         -      30.0*      30.0
502-IN       1974    India    Rajasthan Canal (CAD)                   -      83.0*      83.0
Total                                                            1,228.6  2,880.0
of which has been repaid                                      652.2      7.9
Total now outstanding                                              576.4  2,872.1
Amount sold                        111.5
of which has been repaid      111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                     576 §  2.872.1
Total undisbursed (includingic)2/                                  123.5    939.7    1,063.2
* Not yet effective
l/ Excluding the following credits which were approved by the Executive Directors
but for which agreements had not been signed by November 30, 1974; Sindri
Fertilizer (US$93 million), Rajasthan Dairy Development (US$27.7 million) and
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development (US$16.4 million).
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
P.S. Excluding 230-IN wnich was cancelled.



ANNEX II
Page    2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(as of November 30, 1974)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                       Loan        Equity       Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.          1.5          -           1.5
1959           Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.           0.9          -          0.9
1960           Assam Sillimanite Ltd                 1.4         -           1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                   0.2          -           0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.        0.7         0.3          1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.        0.8         0.4          1.2
1964           Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        2.3         1.0          3.3
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.           1.0        0.3          1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.              1.0        0.1          1.1
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.               8.6        2.9         11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1        3.8         18.9
TOTAL                          33.5        8.8         42.3
Less:     Sold                       6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                     7.6         -           7.6
Cancelled                 6.2         0.1          6.3
Now held                  13.7        7.1         20.8
Undisbursed                -          0.6          0.6



ANNEX II
Page   3
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well.. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of Bank Group
commitments in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of $1,063 million as of
November 30, 1974, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
24-month period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast and slow disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902     Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8. 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan789-IN is fully committed;
and disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. An eleventh loan
to ICICI is tentatively scheduled for Board presentation in July 1975.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the
development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-leveling have been resolved although, as a result of
these delays, an extension of the closing date by two years has been neces-
sary. Expansion of an existing processing plant is in progress, and tenders
for a new plant are under preparation. Large-scale land-leveling demonstra-
tions have stimulated demand for such work and orders are to be placed
shortly by contractors for imported machinery.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page   4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development.    The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction.   The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule.   Some of the delays in implementation have occurred at the
start of the project before major investments have been made.    These will
not affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government has
recently intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials
available. Progress is now satisfactory.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with
construction and credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute
shortages of construction materials, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, have hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main
canals has now fallen about one year behind schedule. This is likely to
delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Land
development is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the
credit operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for
a Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. Construction of the dam, which
was also affected by temporary shortages of building materials, is now
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 191    Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit of
June 3, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
Credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date; June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1975



ANNEX II
Page   5
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29. 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment
only, all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-
term credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm invest-
ments as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement
of these credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements,
in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and lending
terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assessing ground-
water availability. These constraints have been overcome and disbursements
are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following changes in both
the supply and demand situations after the projects were originally appraised
which prompted GOI to request that indigenous, as well as imported models
should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Executive
Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement
is now in progress. Some funds earmarked for land levelling and tractors have
been reallocated to minor irrigation components.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and
10 silos (200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study.
Warehouse construction is about 75% complete. The Government Food Ministry
has selected a local research institute to conduct the study. Admininstrative
problems, substantial cost increases, and technical difficulties in the
selection of silo sites have hampered the execution of the silo component.
A supervision mission has recently assessed the situation and will shortly
recommend appropriate action.



ANNEX II
Page   6
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing; US$13 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple pro-
cessing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage,
juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project entity, the H.P.
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) has been
established and key senior staff recruited, including the Managing Director.
Feasibility studies have begun for cold storage and the juice concentrate
plant. Project training is expected to begin soon.
Cr. No. 241    Telecommunications IV; US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Both projects are continuations of Telecommunications III. Tele-
communications IV has been designed to support the telecomminications expan-
sion program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74). Production
problems in local factories delayed initial disbursement by about 6-9 months.
However, production has now picked up. Telecommunications V was declared
effective on July 30, 1973, and procurement procedures, after a slow start
are now underway.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. For Power Trans-
mission III, specification and tendering procedures are progressing. Tenders
received so far indicate substantial cost overruns.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975



ANNEX II
Page   7
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date:   March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion; US$50.0 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is
now proceeding about 21 months behind schedule due, in large part, to labor
and procurement difficulties. Procurement problems have been largely over-
come and most of the equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port.
Another factor which has contributed to the delay has been technical problems
in the commissioning of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportion-
ate amount of management attention.   Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant
Operations Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these
problems; the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant
basis and procurement has been initiated. The engineering design for the
Gorakhpur project is well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been
ordered. Although delivery of some equipment may take longer than forecast
during appraisal, the project is progressing without serious difficulties,
and disbursements are expected to be complete by the March 1975 closing date.
Engineering work and procurement for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are
proceeding satisfactorily. The Trombay IV Credit was signed on June 19, 1974,
and was declared effective on August 21, 1974. The Sindri Credit was signed
on December 18, 1974.
Cr. No. 448    Railway XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways
investment program. Disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31. 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was
delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acquisition of land
for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily
resolved. Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page   8
Cr. No. 312    Population; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Project
implementation is gaining momentum; the construction program is well under
way, and all key project staff have been appointed. However, institutional
problems have developed in the Population Centers and the matter is cur-
rently under discussion.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of
campus planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist
advisers. Contract negotiations for these personnel are presently in
progress and appointments are expected to be made shortly. University
development plans and fellowship programs have been submitted to the
Association and are under review. Equipment lists are still being prepared.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
The last review mission reported in May 1974 that satisfactory progress
could be expected soon. As of December 1974, commitments for sub-projects
reached $4.03 million and disbursement requests are said to be under way.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is about nine months in arrears due to an
initial delay in appointing the principal consultants. Bidding for principal
material requirements commenced in October 1973 and is progressing satis-
factorily. Project completion is now expected to be in 1979 instead of 1978.
Cr. No. 474    Ninth Industrial Imports Project; US$150.0 million credit of
May 29, 1974; Closing Date: November 30, 1975
This credit was declared effective on June 24, 1974, and US$112.6
million had been disbursed as of November 30, 1974.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
November 30, 1974, US$1.9 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly
for civil works.



ANNLX II
Page   9
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development; US$30 million credit of June 19,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project: US$16.6 !illion
credit of December 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Karnataka Credit became effective on December 23, 1974. A
review mission visited the project in October and was satisfied with progress.
The Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) has been established, and
senior management staff appointed. A number of cooperative extension
specialists have also been appointed by KDDC. Conditions of effectiveness
for the Rajasthan Credit have to be fulfilled by May 15, 1975 and for the
Madhya Pradesh Credit by April 15, 1975.
Ln. No. -011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502     Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 million
credit of July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan and this credit became effective on December 12, 1974.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                         India acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:                    Approximately 850 medium and large scale enter-
prises in selected priority industries.
Amountt                           US$100 zidIIon equivalent to be raised, ubject
to apprwxa by the Xeatiwe Directors, to
US$200 million equivalent after the Fourth IDA
Replenishment becomes effective.
Terms:                            Standard
Project Description:              To enable selected priority industries to
maintain and expand their production by
supplying part of their requirements of
foreign exchange for imports of raw materials,
components, and spares.
Proposed Tenth Credit
Cost of Project:                        1975/76                       % of Import
Import Requirement   Amount        Requirement
------ (US $ Million) -------
A.  Raw materials, Components &
Spare Parts for Manufacturers of:
1.  Tractors and Power Tillers           27            4              15
2.  Fertilizers                        259            70              27
3. Pesticides                            54            5               9
4. Electrical Equipment:
(i) Power Generating Equipment
& Boilers                       169           17              10
(ii) Up to 66 KV, including
motors, transformers,
switchgears, stampings,
cables & wires                 110            28              25
5. Aluminum Smelting                    18             2              11
6.  Commercial Vehicles                 63            15              24
7. Automotive Ancillaries               99            25              25
8. Castings and Forgings                10             2              20
9.  Machine Tools, Cutting and Small
Tools and Abrasives, Ball and
Roller Bearings                      49           14              28
10.  Heavy Construction Equipment         30            8              27



ANNEX III
Page 2
Proposed Tenth Credit
1975/76                    % of Import
Cost of Project:                  Import Requirement   Amount      Requirement
----- US $f Million) --------
B. Spare Parts for Existing Equipment:
1.  Heavy Earth Moving                  20             9              45
2. Power Generating                      3            1               33
TOTAL              911          200              22
Estimated Disbursement:          About US$20 million per month.   The initial
US$100 million to be approved by the Executive
Directors and specified in the Development Credit
Agreement is expected to be disbursed in approx-
imately the same proportions shown above. In
the case of Categories A2 and A3, Fertilizer
and Pesticides, will not exceed US$37.5 million
of this US$100 million.
Procurement Arrangements:         Approximate D perce.at of imports financed
by the Associaltion wi-l be procured by Canalising
Agencies, which are Government trading corporations,
on behalf of industrial enterprises and the
balance by the individual enterprises. In the
case of Canalising Agencies, for all orders in
excess of UIS$100,000 equivalent, these Agencies
will secure offers from at least three suppliers.
In practice, items supplied by Canalising Agencies
are usually procured through international
competitive bidding or exceptionally through
international shopping when appropriate.



ANNEX IV
INDIA
TENTH INDUSTRTAL IMPORTS PRGAMq CREDIT
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US $ million)
1968/69    1969/70    1970/71     1971/72    1972/73    1973/74          1974/75
(Mission Estimates)
a/         b/         b/          b/
Merchandise Exports              1,810      1,884      1,950      2,160       2,545      3,105            4,000
Merchandise Imports             -2,522     -2,148     -2,311      -2,572     -2,664      3,665            5,800
Debt Service                      -500       -550       -600       -615        -682        721              730
(of which, to
Consortium                   (406)      (434)      (465)      (512)       (561)      (612)            (635)
Other)                        (94)      (116)      (135)      (103)       (121)      (109)             (95)
Credit Transactions with IMF       -62       -157       -183         -           -          75               6p5
Gross Aid Disbursements          1,259      1,188      1,096      1,089         896      1,175             1,750
(of which, from
Consortium                 (1,145)    (1,068)    (1,019)    (1,060)       (855)    (1,000)
Traditional Non-Consortium                                                           (175)
Other)                       (114)      (120)       (77)       (29)        (41)     (n.a.)
Miscellaneous Capital and                                               e/f/       f/         f/
Invisibles (Net) d/            66        109          5        163        - 61        137              n.a.
Use of Reserves (- = increase)     -51       -326         43        -225        -34       -106
Reserve Level at end of Period     769      1,095      1,052      1,277       1,311      1,417
Note: Except for 1973/74, data for all other years are actuals.
a/  Adjusted for over-recording of exports.
b/  Includes aid-financed exports to Bangladesh.
c/ Adjusted for under-recording of imports.
d/ Includes errors and omissions.
e/ Includes receipt of refugee assistance of US $ 230 million.
f/ Includes aid to Bangladesh of US $ 31 million in 1971/72, US $ 131 million in 1972/73, and US $ 10 million
(estimated) in 1973/74.
Sources: 1) Merchandise trade figures are taken from the Department of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Monthly
Statistics of Foreign Trade Volume I & II. The import figures however have been adjusted for under-
recording of imports.
2) Aid & Debt statistics are from the Ministry of Finance and the IBRD Debtor Reporting System.
3ihhIMF, theuse of res s, and level     reserve  data are from the various issues
o  t e mon   y   Internatonal Financ       atistic   published by    e IMF.
4) Other items 'lave been determined as residual.



INDIA                                                ANNEX V
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Aid and Debt Statistics, 1958/59 - 1973/74 -/
(US $ Million)
1964/65  1965/66  1966/67  1967/68   1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74   1974/75
(eat) 4/ (proj)
1. Consortium Members
Gross Disbursements                  1,044 1,481       t   l    1.503    1l14      1,068    1,019    1,060     855      4_0   1,3_00
Of which:
Project Aid                         873      968      422      301      303      204       247      325     358       496     n,a.
Non-Project Aid                                       428      689      549      584       573      579     497       608     n.a.
Food Aid and Non-Food
PL 480                             471       513      563      513      294      280       199      156      ..        ..     n.a.
Debt Service                           232      292      302      333      406      434       465      512      561      610      635
Net Transfer                         1.112    1,189    1,111    1,170      740       634      554      548      294      494      665
Debt Service Ratio (7)               16.4     21.4     24.4     25.7     27.8      29.0     30.1     30.5     31.3     23.9
II. Non-Consortium Countries
Gross Disbursements                    172     136        98       95      114       120       77       29       41      205      450-/
Of which:
Project Aid                                            85       84      107       110       74       27       41      n.a.    n.a.
172      126
Non-Project Aid                                         3        1        1         1        .        .       ..      n.a.    n.a.
Food Aid
_.                                   ,,       10       10       10        5        9         3        2       ..       ..     n.a,
Debt Service                            26       23       53      111       94       116      135      102      121       90        95
Net Transfer                           146      113       35     - 16       19         4      -58      -73       80      115       355
Debt Service Ratio (%) /              8.6      7.0     20.7     36.9     26.5      28.3     28.0     22.3     19.3     14.7
III. Total Consortium & Non-Consortium
Gross Disbursements                  1,516    1,617    1,511    1,598    L 259     1 188    1,096    1_089      896     1,305    1,750
Of which:
Project Aid                                           507      385      410       314      321      352      399      520     n.a.
1,045    1,094
Non-Project Aid                                       431      690      550       585      573      579      497      785     n.a.
Food Aid and Non-Food
PL 480                              471      523      575      523      299      289       202      158      ..        ..     n.a.
Debt Service                           258      315      365      444      500       550      600      615      682      700       730
Net Transfer                         1,258    1,302    1,146    1,154       759      638      496      474      214       609    1.020
Debt Service Ratio (%)-/             15.1     18.6     23.7     27.8      27.6     28.9     29.6     28.8     28.2      22.1     17.4
a/ All figures include project and non-project loans (with debt relief shown as a non-project disbursement), food aid, and non-food PL 480
(except PL 480 Title II). Figures for 1966/67 through 1973/74 also have partial coverage of project and non-project grants. Coverage
of food aid statistics may be incomplete.
b/ Debt service divided by merchandise export earnings.    For the Consortium, the debt service ratio   has been calculated with respect
to total convertible currency export earnings; for the non-Consortium, with respect to exports to the rupee payments area.
c/  Includes credits from oil exporting countries.
d/ A breakdown of the actual aggregate figures shown in Annex IV was not available at the time this annex was prepared, so the previous
estimates are shown here.
Source: Government of India, Department of Economic Affairs; IBRD Debtor Reporting System; IDA estimates.
October 25, 1974



INDIA                                ANNEX VI
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Imort Summary a/
(US $ Million)
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/?4    a    7
Cereal and Cereal Preparations                     348         284        176        105        590t/   900-1,300
eI
Maintenance Imports, of which:                    1,328      1,512      1,883      1,914      2,355      3,950
Steel                                            109        196        319        293        310       350
Non-ferrous metals                                99        159        138        142        178       n.&.
Fertilisers and fertilizer raw materials1/      157        133        150         189        289        75P
POL                                             183        181        261         265        716      1,300
Cotton                                          110        132        152        118          66      n.a.
Chemical elements and compounds                  62         71         86          84        101      n.a.
Components and spares                           287        2i4        384        437        488       n.a.
Others                                          321        356        393         386       494       n.a.
Complete Machinery and Equipment                   252        260         268        276        337        350
Others c/                                          220         255        245        369        383        40
TOTAL IMPORTS                     2.148      2,311      2,572      2,664      3.665   5.600-6.000
a/  Foreign exchange rates used:  1968/69 to 1970/71 - 1$    Rs 7.50    e/ Details of the breakdown of maintenance
1971/72            -  1$   R.7.41i       importa was not available when this annex
1972/73            -  1$ = Rs7.70         waa prepared.  The figures here are
1973/74            = 1$ - Rs7.8285        earlier estimates which add up to US$287
b/  Includes USSR food aid imports of US$180 per ton f.o.b.                 million more than the total shown in
c/  Includes IDA adjustment for under recording of imports.                 Annex IV,
e/ Mission estlmtes.



ANNEX  VII
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROCRAM CREDIT
INDEX OP INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
(Base 1960=100)
January -June
Commodities                       Weight              1965          1970         1971         1972         19273a 1973             1974
ALL COMMODITIES                       100.00               153.8        184.3        186.1        199.5        200.7        196.6       200.6
(Seasonally adju1sted)
1.  Mining and Quarrying                    9.72               131.7        149.0        153.4        164.2        163.6       168.7       177.1
II.  Manufacturing                          84.91               154.0        178.9        178.9        191.4        193.1       188.9        190.0
a) Food Manufacturing                  12.09               122.2        160.0        157.6        162.6        154.5       152.3        153.0
b) Beverages and Tobacco                2.22               147.6        175.6        182.5        174.1        178.9       169.1        187.6
c) Man,acture of Textiles              27.06               114.8        11o.6        1o6.o        114.4        113.3       107.3        106.1
d) Manufacture of Footwear
and 'Wearing Apparel                 .21               169.4        161.3        168.1        150.8        151.3        157.4       144.3
e) Manufacture of Wood and Cork
Except Manufacture of Fuirniture     .80               235.2        220.2        224.1        217.7        158.4        157.2       159.4
f) Manufacture of Furniture                                                                         -
and Fittings                         .39
g) Paper and Paper Products             1.61               147.2        217.1        225.7        226.1        236.4       221.3        244.4
h) Leather and Fulr Prod,cts             .43               122.7         61.0         55.3         59.9         76.4        73. 2        78.2
i) Rubber Products                      2.22               159.4        216.4        ?41.8        256.0        250.6       232.7       266.4
j) Chemicals and Chemical Products      7.26               152.6        233.0        252.7        293.7        301.9       301.7       293.2
k) Petroleum Refinery Produicts         1.45-/             158.7        298.9        316.9        317.2        332.8       307.2        351.5
i) Non-Metallic Mineral
(incluiding C-ment)                 3.85               149.1        195.6        207.6        225.2        276.6       220.4       230.8
m) Basic M.etal Induistries             7.38               180.9        210.0        208.6        225.3        215.8       218.8       200.3
n) Metal Products                       2.51               205.6        244.5        234.4        242.7        240.5       253.5        255.7
o) Non-Electrical Machinery             3.38               320.9        408.4        373.2        402.7        454.9       444.7       450.9
p) Electriual Machinery                 3.05               208.2        369.2        404.8        435.0        436.6       434.2       428.0
q) Transport Equiipment                 7.77               205.3        133.5        122.1        133.5        148.1       149.3       148.0
r) Mliscellaneous Industries            1.23               132.9        121.1        114.0         06.5         74.5        49.7       100.6
III. Electricity Generated                  L5.3                190.9       534.4        358.5         390.7        383.        369.1       406.5
a/ Provisional.
b/ Production figures are not reported.
c/ Reported production statistics relate only to products whose total weight amounts to 1.34 in the index.
Source: Government of India, various issues of the Economic Survey.
12/20/74



ANNEX  VIII
INDIA
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PRODULCTION PERFORMANCE OF INDUSTRIAL SECTORS ASSISTED BY IDA - tg65/66, 1970/71 - 197S/76
Estiimate      Projected
INDUSTRY                 UNIT         1565/66       1970/71       1971/72       1972/73        1973/74        1974/75        1975/76
Tractors                         Nos. 000          6            20            18            21             24             32              40
Power Tillers                    Nos. 000         .4            .3            .1            .4            1.0            2.0             3.0
Fertilizers:
Nitrogen 2/                   1000 tons       238           832           952           1060          1060           1300            2000
P20   /                       1000 tons       119           228           278            326           330            400             600
Pesticides:
Technical                     1000 tons        12            24            24             27            31             35              40
Solid Foundations             1000 tons       n.a.           34            44             60            61             70              80
liquid Foundations            1000 KL         n.a.            7            10             12            12             15              20
Electrical Equipment: 2/
Motors                        Mill. HP        2.0           3.2           2.9            3.2           3.1            3.4             3.6
Transformers                  Mill. KVA       5.6          10.9          11.0           11.2          15.2           17.0            20.0
Switchgear                    Mill. Rs.       170           364           391            469           615            650             750
Cables and Wires:
Winding Cables              1000 tons       9.0          17.0          19.6           13.6          21.4           22.0            26.0
PVC/VIE Cables              m.c.m. 5/       367           563           557            721           694            700             950
Power Cables                m.m. A/         9.0          17.0          17.0           19.3          20.4           22.0            24.0
Steel StampingsV/                1000 tons       n.a.           34            35             25            31             33              38
Aluminiuim Smelting              1000 tons        69           169           181            175           148            130             180
(primary metal)
Cast Iron Spun Pipes             1000 tons       n.a.          174           199            209           250            275             300
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses              Nos.000         35.0         41.0          41.0           41.7          42.7           44.0            46.0
Jeeps                         Nos.000         10.4          9.8          11.0           13.0          12.0           10.0            10.0
Three 'Wheelers               Nos.000          1.5          4.7           7.0           11.0          11.0           13.0            16.0
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires                         Nos. Mill.       2.3          4.3           4.8            5.0           5.2            5.5             6.5
Synthetic Rubber              1000 tons        n.a.        27.0          33.0           32.0          21.0           22.0            30.0
Storage Batteries             Nos. M5ill.       .7          1.0           1.2            1.1           1.3            1.4             1.7
Auto Components and Parts     Mill. Rs.        614         1332          1202           1228          1500           1750            1900
Tools and Parts
Machine Tools                 Mill. Rs.        255          355           527            549           632            730             850
Cutting, Small Tools and      Mill. Rs.        300          395           488            507           520            600             650
Abrasives
Ball and Roller Bearings      Nos. Mill.       8.3         17.7          20.0           22.0          24.0           26.0            29.0
Heavy Construction Equipment-    Nos.             n.a.         774          1008           1669          1861           2325            3065
Engines for Earth-moving         Nos.             n.a.         888           889           1358          1711           2000            2500
Equi pment
Castings 7/
Steel Castings                1000 tons        n.a.         n;a.         56.0           70.6          68.0           68.0            70.0
Cast-Iron Castings            1000 tons        n.a.         n.a.        104.0          137.0         160.0          175.0           200.0
Malleable Iron Castings       1000 tons        n.a.         n.a.         17.0           19.0          19.0           19.0            20.0
S.G. Iron Castings            1000 tons        n.a.         n.a.          2.1            2.7           3.0            3.5             4.0
Forgingsl/                       1000 tons        n.a.         n.a.         72.5           91.0          95.0           9500           100.0
Boilers                          Mill. Rs.        n.a.         n.a.          409            572           789            920            1100
Power Generating Equipment       Mill. Rs.        n.a.         n.a.          723           1017          1662           2093            2943
3] Figures from Fertilizer Association of India.
i/ Government figures have been adjusted by IDA on the basis of additional information obtained from other official soirces and trade associations.
Million Crore meters.
4/ Million meters.
5/ Figures exclude production in captive units.
i/ Comprises excavators, dumpers, crawler tractors, scrapers, girders, loaders, and road rollers.
7/ Data for calendar years 1971-1975.
October 1974
Country Programs Department
Sou rce:  DITD and mission estimates.



INDIA                                           ANNEX IX
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
EXPORT PERFORMANCE OF IDA-ASSISTED INDUSTRIES - 1968/69. 1972/73. and 1973/74
(Fiscal Years, in Million U.S.$)
Percentage Growth
INDUSTRY                          1968/69            1972/73             1973h4               1972/73 - 1973/74
Tractors                                      -                  .03                 .09
Power Tillers                                 -                  .26                .43                     65.4
Fertilizers                                    -                 .84                .01
Pesticides                                     -                 .01                 .04
Electrical Equipment:
Motors                                    .23                 .90               1.53                     70.0
Transformers                              .68                1.57                1.76                    12.1
Switchgear                                .39                1.78               2.66                     49.4
Cables and Wires                           -                15.71              14.42                     -8.2
Steel Stampings                            -                  -                   -                        -
Aluminium Smelting (primary steel)         11.29                negl.              negl.
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses                         2.36                8.00                5.39                   -32.6
Jeeps                                     .07                 .77                 .19                   -75.3
Three-Wheelers                           negl.                .73          -       05                   -93.2
Automobile Diesel Engines                  .21                .12                 .19                    58.3
Automotive Ancillaries
Tyres and Tubes                          3.61                6.17               8.04                     30.3
Synthetic Rubber                         negl.                -                   .22
Storage Batteries                        1.o6                2.33                2.40                     3.0
Auto Components & Parts                  4.23                9.79               14.87                    51.9
Cast Iron Spun Pipes                        negl.               2.18               2.55                     17.0
Tools and Parts:
Machine Tools                            2.51               .2.66                4.61                    73.3
Cuatting, Small Tools & Abrasives        3.72                9.50              11.32                     19.2
Ball and Roller Bearings                  .29                 .27                 .29                     7.4
Earthmoving Equipment                         .40                .04
All Engineering Goods Exports              113.3 -             183.1              230.0                      25.6
1/ For calendar year 1968.
Sources: Government of India; Engineering Export Promotion Council; Manufacturers' Associations; and IDA estimates.
October 1974
Country Programs Department



INDIA                                      ANNEX X
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS: SOURCES OF PROCUREMENT
(in US $'000)
Credit  Credit    Credit   Credit  Credit   Credit   Credit  Credit            % of
Country        52-IN   78-IN    92-IN     97-IN   138-IN  182-IN    327-IN  402-IN  Total     Total
Australia             627    1,691     4,679   3,060    3,742   2,935    4,686    1,116   22,536    2.9
Austria               612      817       638     310    5,255   1,329      554      670   10,185    1.3
Belgium               786    3,190    11,078     644    1,038     313      -        230  17,279     2.2
Brazil                -         59       -     3,180      315     -        -        -      3,554    0.5
Burma                n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       132      -        132    neg
Canada                960    4,016    8,641    9,026    9,962  1,365     1,237    3,373  38,580     L:.9
France              1,111    1,459     2,770   3,096    2,223     999    1,700    2,063   15,421    2.0
Germany            20,795   25,004    27,824   7,748   23,615 23,425    13,632   19,314 161,357    20.7
Ghana                n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       513      481      994    0.1
Greece               n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.      689      -        -        689    0.1
Iran                 n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.     522     1,005    2,248   3,775     0.5
Iraq                 n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.      836      836    0.1
Israel               n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       689      683    1,372    0.2
Italy                 859      703    2,638    1,140    2,765  1,491       728    1,882  12,206     1.6
Japan               5,546    3,933    5,971    3,100    9,592 11,473    14,886   21,383  75,884     9.7
Jordan                -        -       2,964   3,375    4,016     332    2,174    1,777   14,638    1.9
Kuwait               n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.      431      431    neg
Liberia               -        -       1,395   1,080    1,795     426      -        -      4,696    0.6
Malaysia               54    1,479    5,651      563    3,141      91      209    1,087   12,275    1.6
Mexico                 76      -       1,909   1,945      191      98    2,662    4,271   11,152    1.4
Morocco               -        -       2,798     -      1,087   2,382      118    4,001   10,386    1.3
Netherlands           189      133     3,170     287      498     445      985    1,099    6,806    0.9
Norway                  7      103       492     140    1,087     415      378       79    2,701    0.3
Peru                 n.a.    n.a.     n.a,      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       193      -        193    neg
Sweden              1,430    1,835     2,006   1,770    1,898     995    2,205    2,000   14,139    1.8
Switzerland           916      789       564   1,011    2,199     721    2,067    1,917   10,184    1.3
United Kingdom     44,448   35,758    30,489   9,829   25,149   9,729   13,355   13,133 181,890    23.3
United States      10,381   18,758    27,364   8,222   17,489   9,911    8,374    8,342 108,841    14.0
Yugoslavia           n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.    1,588    1,588    0.2
Zaire                n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.    1,784       23    2,580   4,387     0.6
Zambia                 65        5       373   1,164    7,176  1,147     2,338    3,376   15,644    2.0
Other Countries     1,138      268     6,586   4,310      767   1,983      157       40   15,249    2.0
TOTAL           90,000  100,000  150,000      00   125,000       0 5,00  75,000 -i0   000 780,000  100.0



INDIA                                              ANNEX XI
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY IN THE PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS
(US $ Million)
First   Second  Third    Fourth  Fifth    Sixth    Seventh   Eighth
Category               Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit    Credit   Credit   Credit    Total
(52-IN) (78-IN)   (92-IN) (97-IN)(138-IN) (182-IN) (327-IN) (402-IN)
A. Components and Material
and Spare Parts for the
Manufacture of:
- Commercial Vehicles          43.6    31.6    22.8     5.9      13.3     10.4      9.8       7.5   144.9
- Agricultural Tractors         -       -       1.8     0.4       2.3      2.6      3.4      5.0     15.5
- Automotive Ancilliaries      10.6    16.3    23.9     10.9     23.9     26.6     17.0      12.2   141.4
- Machine Tools                 4.3     4.1     2.2      1.1      2.5)    16.9)    21.6)     39.7   112.6
- Cutting and Small Tools       4.8     5.0     4.7     2.2       3.5)
- Ball & Roller Bearings        -       -       2.5     1.1       2.4      -        -         -       6.0
- Electrical Equipment         11.2    12.1    16.3     3.6       8.0      3.4      4.7       7.2    66.5
- Fertilizers & Pesticides      -       -      24.0     22.1     25.7     15.0     18.0      25.3   130.1
- Cables and Wires              -      19.8    44.5     12.3     22.5      -        -         -      99.1
- Industrial and Mining
Machinery                  -       -       4.3      3.3     16.0      -        -         -      23.6
- Basic Nonferrous Metals       -       -       2.6      2.0      3.2      -        -         -       7.8
- Castings & Forgings           -       -     small    small      0.2      -        -         -       0.2
- Heavy Construction
Equipment                  2.9     3.5     -        -        -        -        -         2.8     9.2
- Aluminum Smelting             -       -       -        -        -        -        0.5       0.3     0.8
- Miscellaneous                 -       -       -      small      0.7      -        -         -      ,0.7
B.  Balancing Equipment             2.5     1.8      0.4     0.2      0.7      -         -        -       5.6
C.  Spare Parts for Heavy
Construction Equipment
Dealers                         7.7     5.8      -       -        -        -         -        -      13.5
D.  Heavy Construction
Equipment                       2.4     -        -       -        -        -         -        -       2.4
TOTAL              90.0   100.0   150.0    65.0     125.0     75.0     75.0    100.0    780.0
Source: IDA
October 21, 1974
South Asia Programs



ANNEX XII
INDIA
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS OF ELIGIBLE INDUSTRIES UNDER THE CREDIT - 1971/72-- 1975/76
(In Rs. Million)
Actuals                              Estimated             Projected
1971/72       1972/73         1973/74              1974/75               1975F76
A. Raw Materials, Components and
Spare Parts for Manufacturers of:
Tractors                                       217           101      7                         7                    7
240                  168                    216
Power Tillers                                   13          negligible:
Fertilizers                                    350           400             768                 1,424                 2,072
Pesticides                                     102           122             224                   328                   432
Electrical Equipment
Below 30 kv  /                               495           406             680                  728                    880
Boilers and Power-generating EquipmentA4     n.a.          n.a.          1,088                 1,248                 1,352
Aluminium Smelting                              56            24              96                    96                   144
Commercial Vehicles                            172           216             416                   504                   504
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires and Tubes                               64            42       ,
Synthetic Rubber                              23            17
Storage Batteries                             42            386                                  672                   792
Auto Components & Parts                      176           102
Castings and Forgings .2/                        5            10              36                    56                    80
Tools and Parts
Machine Tools                                 70            80                                                     7
Cutting, Small Tools, and Abrasives           85            90             272                   344                   392
Ball and Roller Bearings                      48            41
Heavy Construction Equipment /                 135           238             264                   224                   240
B. Dealers of Spare Parts fcr:
Heavy Construction Equipment:&                  17            17             104                   128                   160
Power-generating Equipment 4/                  n.a.          n.a.            n.a.                  n.a.                   24
Grand Total (in Rs. Million)          2,070          1,944          4, 724               5,920                  7,288
Grand, Total (in US S Million) 5"     278.1          252.3          595.5                 750.0                 1,103
1/ Import requirements refer to foreign exchange allocations approved or expected to be approved by the Ministry
of Industrial Developmentand Civil Supplies, during each annual licensing period.
2j Revised estimates by the Ministry of Industrial Development and Civil Supplies in light of information current in October 1974.
I/ Includes motors, transformers, switchgear, and cables and wires.
4/ New sectors proposed to be included under the Tenth Credit.
5/ For actuals 1971/72, 1972/73, the entry includes only cast iron spun pipes. For data for 1973/74, estimated
1974/75, projected 1975/76, cast iron spun pipes consist of Rs. million 8, 16 and 24 respectively.
6/ Includes heavy earth-moving equipment, engines for earthmoving equipment, and road rollers.
J/ The figures include imports of actual users (i.e. project authorities).
8/ The exchange rate used for 1973/74 - 1975/76 was US S 1.00 = Rs 8.00
Source: Ministry of Industrial Development and Civil Supplies.



ANNEX XIII
Page 1
1NDIA
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Progress Report on Special Studies
Background and Objectives
1.        In connection with the Eighth and Ninth Industrial Import Credits
to India, the Association has made separate industry-specific and in depth
studies of the following sectors: commercial vehicles, tractors, foundries
and forgings. The object of these studies has been to establish within the
Association a better understanding of each of the selected industry's prob-
lems and to provide a basis for making recommendations on the industry's per-
formance. These studies were intended to enable a useful dialogue to take
place among the Government of India, the industries and the Association in
order to outline action programs for improvement.
2.        Each study was based upon field work carried out by Technical Con-
sultants. The first set of these studies covered commercial vehicles and
tractor industries and the results were made available in mid-1973. In the
past 18 months, the Association has had discussions on the follow-up of these
studies. Preliminary reaction to some of the conclusions and some of the
initial measures taken to improve performance were reported in Annex XIII to
the President's Report for The Ninith Industrial Import Credit (P-1436-IN).
In September 1974, GOI completed a report reviewing further the progress in
impl ementing the recommendations and a summary of that report is presented
in paragraphs 4 to 6 below. The findings of this report were broadly confirmed
through comments given to the appraisal mission for this credit during meetings
held in September-October 1974 with members of Indian trade and manufacturer's
associations.
3.        The second set of studies covered the foundry and forging industries.
These were completed in June 1974 and GOI is now in the process of distribu-
ting the reports and making arrangements for reviewing implementation. Further
details are presented in paras 7 to 9 of this Annex.
Summary of GOI Report on Progress - Commercial Vehicles and Tractors
4.        Recommendations for action by Government.  The principal recommend-
actions addressed to the Government and the progress achieved in implementa-
tion are summarized as follows:
(i) GOI should make known to the manufacturers the findings
and recommendations relevant to each company's opera-
tion and monitor appropriate follow-up.



ANNEX XIII
Page 2
Copies of the special studies and the detailed findings of the technical
consultants were sent to the concerned enterprises with a request for their
comments and indication of action taken or to be taken. Initially, response
from these enterprises and follow-up by Government was slow, but all firms
have been visited and have responded and the Department of Heavy Industry
continues to maintain contact with these enterprises.
(ii) GOI should consider revisions in licensing policy
to permit efficient manufacturers to expand and new
units to be set up.
Steps were taken in November 1973 to simplify administrative procedures and
reduce delays through the setting up of a Secretariat of Industrial Approvals
(see paragraph 29 of the text of this report). However, enterprises which,
fall within the purview of the Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Policies Com-
mission (MRTP) still experience some delay in receiving licenses on account
of the complicated nature of thlis legislation.
(iii) GOI should consider eliminating price controls.
During 1974 price controls were removed for all commercial vehicles and
tractors.
(iv) GOI should give favorable consideration to proposals
involving foreign collaboration to achieve improved
product design.
The Government has confirmed its interest in negotiating foreign collabora-
tion agreements for which approval is now co-ordinated by the Secretariat
for Industrial Approvals. The Secretariat is acting expeditiously and during
the first six months of 1974 approvals were being granted at double the rate
of the previous year.
(v) GOI should permit five percent of actual user import
license entitlements to be used for the import
of any item without restriction in order to improve
quality and competitiveness.
Import licenses were liberalized along these lines in mid 1973. In addition,
the Government is granting licenses much liberally for issential inputs,
especially components, to maintain production.
(vi) GOI should improve the administration of the export
incentive system.
Steps were taken by the Government in April 1974 to speed up cash assistance
and drawback payments (see paragraph 33 of the text of this report).



ANNEX XIII
Page 3
(vii) GOI should computerize processing of data on import
licenses.
The Government has been working for a long time on a project to permit comr-
puterization of import data and related production statistics. This is,
however, a complicated exercise which has encountered many difficulties.
Part of the computer routines are now running and are being used but further
work has still to be done before full computerization is effective.
(viii) GOI should undertake a new comprehensive study
of tractor demand.
GOI relies on studies of demand carried out by the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation. These studies are maintained on a continuing basis.
(ix) for auto ancillaries supplying the commercial vehicle
industry, steps should be taken, in particular in
Detroit, to expand marketing efforts for the export
of components.
GOI has encouraged the existing Engineering Promotion Council offices in
Europe, East Africa and East Asia to increase marketing efforts. The council's
office in Chicago has established correspondence facilities in Detroit.
Recommendation for Action by Individual Enterprises
5.        All of the firms, whiclh were studied by the Association team,
have been visited and, in almost all cases have prepared detailed comments
on the recommendations made to them. These comments and those made during
plant visits fall within four general categories as follows:
(i) Some recommendations were felt to be pertinent and were
acceptable. Action on these has either already been
taken or is proposed. These actions are explained in
paragraph 6 below.
(ii) Some recommendations were found to be impractical, In
particular, recommendations concerning the need for design
changes were felt by some manufacturers to be unwarranted
Partly because of the Indian road and other operating
conditions and partly because of the small size of the mar-
ket, which did not justify the additional tooling.
(iii)  Some of the recommendations confirmed action which had
already been initiated.
(iv) Some of the recommendations were considered to have been
based upon an inadequate understanding of local conditions.
This applied especially to recommendations on financial
and management control.



ANNEX XIII
Page 4
6.        Specific actions on which reports have been received are:
(i) Product engineering. All the units in both the industries
visited by the Association study teams have established
product engineering facilities, although these vary in
range and depth. However, lack of finiancial resources
has prevented some firms from carrying out the study team's
recommendations.
(ii) Maintenance and factory layout. Arrangements for improved
material handling methods, better maintenance practices
for machinery and plant, and personnel training, especially
in more efficient work practices, are being undertaken.
(iii)  Materials management.   Review of inventory levels has
been carried out and inventory control and material
storage systems proposed.
(iv) Marketing. Need for strengthening marketing capabilities
has been accepted and plans for improvement over tie
next three years, in market research and planning, sales
analysis and forecasting, advertising and promotion, and
dealer development are at various stages of consideration.
(v) Financial controls and management reports. The need for
timely and relevant reporting of accounts for better
decision-making has been accepted and is being emphasized
in GOI's follow-up work.
Summary of GOI Report on Progess - Foundries and Forgings
7.        Insofar as the foundries and forgings industries were concerned, the
reports submitted by the Association study teams have been examined in the
Ministry of Industrial Development and Civil Supplies and in the Directorate
General for Technical Development (DGTD) of GOI. The studies pertaining to each
unit have been forwarded to the units, in the same manner as for the commercial
vehicles and tractor units. In this instance however, the time available
for a detailed dialogue has not so far been available. Nonetheless, the
DGTD has convened a series of meetings with the concerned castings and
forging units, visited by the Association teams. Reports of the Associa-
tion teams in regard to general and specific recommendations were discussed
during these mettings, with a view to speeding up the implementation of the
recommendations by the units, wherever action had to be taken by them.
Many of these recommendations have been found, after detailed examination
by the concerned units, to be useful, and necessary improvements entailing
modifications in their operations as well as organization and management
have been promised. The units have also been asked to keep the DGTD
informed of the progress made by them in implementing these recommendations
and other improvements which may improve the quality and efficiency of
production. The DGTD has instituted a system of quarterly reporting of the
progress made in the implementation of the various recommendations made.



ANNEX XIII
Page 5
8.        In regard to the general recommendations on the castings industry,
the Government believes that the industry must institute a program of self-
help and technical assistance. There three or four regional groups should
be established to provide technical assistance to weaker units. An attempt
shiould be made to disseminate technology already in existence in the country
and technical assistance from abroad should be employed where necessary,
to raise the standard of operation of foundries. Various alternatives in
this regard have been examined for imparting technical training and technical
assistance. Toward this end, the GOI has contacted representatives from
Indian manufacturers' and trade associations to discuss the possibility of
establishing an institutional framework for follow-up work.
9.        These study reports were sent to financial institutions in India
and ICICI has already taken up the recommendation that a sand cleaning and
grading plant should be set up and is considering a possible project for
financing.



ANNEX XIV
Page 1
INDIA
TENTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Review of IDA-Assisted Industries
1.        The first part of this annex reviews these industries (para-
graphs 2 - 41) while the second part examines their export performance
(paragraphs 42 - 47).
Tractors
2.        Output of tractors, largely for agriculture, has continued to
expand with production in 1974/75 rising by 30 percent to some 32,000 units.
In 1975/76 further growth is expected when production will approach the
present estimated capacity of 40,000 units.
3.        Manufacturers have been affected by power shortages, although more
recently the introduction of power rationing has enabled production to be
planned more efficiently. A number of plants have also been permitted to
purchase locally or import standby generation equipment. Another difficulty
has been the lack of an orderly flow of components from the ancillary
industries which supply a substantial portion of the parts and components
for the tractor industry. These ancillary industries were themselves
affected by power shortages and in addition they had difficulty in obtaining
raw materials, particularly steel and aluminum. To alleviate the situation
the Government adopted a more liberal attitude towards imports of various
items which were in particularly short supply, thus helping to contribute
to the overall production growth.
4.        Current indications are that the power shortages should have less
impact on production by ancillary industries on account of power rationing
and some standby capacity among the larger component manufacturers, especially
engines. Some improvement in steel supplies is expected, but supplies of
aluminum will still be short. The Government plans to permit imports of key
items including aluminum.
5.        Demand is expected to remain strong especially for smaller tractor
sizes whose production capacity has been expanded in recent years. A number
of manufacturers report order books representing two to three years output;
as these orders have to be accompanied by a relatively large deposit,
manufacturers remain confident of demand for the next few years. Expansion
plans for the period after 1977 are being made. However, in the case of
one manufacturer, who makes one of the most popular models, proposals for
expansion are still awaiting approval as the question of foreign equity
participation has yet to be resolved. Tractor prices were decontrolled in
October 1974.



ANNEX XIV
Page 2
6.        The import content of tractors is now around 5 percent, largely
for special components made under collaborative arrangements; the same
applies to the manufacture of power tillers. An IDA allocation of US$4
million is proposed out of a total foreign exchange requirement of US$27
million. The tractor industry was the subject of a special survey at the
end of 1972. The principal findings of that survey and the measures which
have been taken to implement the recommendations both at the level of the
individual firms and the Government are discussed in Annex XIII.
Fertilizers
7.        Fertilizer consumption has increased at an average of about 17% per
annum over the past 20 years. The use of nitrogen (N) is predominant with
consumption of 1.8 million tons in 1973/74 compared with 0.6 million tons of
phosphorous (P205) and 0.3 million ;:ons of potash (K20). The need for
increased fertilizer use in India is exemplified by the crop yields which,
on the basis of 1972 data, are well below the average for other Asian
countries except for wheat which is grown in irrigated areas and planted with
high yielding varieties and which receive relatively high rates of fertilizer
application.
8.        With bad weather conditions affecting production for the past
three years over much of India, the need has never been more urgent, espe-
cially in the irrigated areas, and demand is expected to remain strong. Of
more importance, certainly for the next three years, is the constraint on
supplies which has been attributable in part to shortfalls in domestic
production. In addition, imports have been increasingly difficult to obtain
following the energy crisis and the worldwide shortage of fertilizer.
9.        Domestic production has been increasing at about 16% per annum
over the past 20 years, although output did not increase in 1973/74 on account
of power shortages. Installed capacity is 1.9 million tons of N and 0.6
million tons of P205. Utilization in 1973/74 was only 68%. The reasons were
delays in the completion of new projects, obsolete equipment in older plants
and serious power shortages; in the latter case most especially in 1973/74
when several plants had to be closed down for extended periods. In addition,
management has often been responsible for lack of maintenance, although
over the past four years, operational performance has been improving. The
Bank Group is now assisting GOI with a major program of modernization and
expansion. As domestic coal will be in short supply for the next five years
or so, this program will be based upon the use of fuel oil as feedstock; coal
will, however, be used for power generation and the supply of power will be
made more secure through the installation of captive units.
10.       The shortfall in domestic production has necessitated a rising
volume of imports, reaching a total of 1.2 million nutrient tons in 1972/73.
However, because of rising prices and limited availability over the past two
years in particular over the past year, India has not had the foreign exchange



ANNEX XIV
Page 3
resources to do more than maintain this volume. Thus, an increase in avail-
ability will depend very much upon improvement of domestic production and it
is in this context that IDA financing of raw materials, in particular rock
phosphate for phosphatic fertilizers, is especially important. The estimated
foreign exchange requirement in 1975/76 for imported raw materials is US$259
million for which an allocation of US$70 million from this credit is proposed.
Pesticides
11.       Although the use of pesticides has increased rapidly in recent
years, application of pesticide is still very low by international comparison.
The Government has programs for extending pesticide use which is essential
to obtaining full benefit from hybrid varieties of cereals and improvement
in cotton yields.  Foreign exchange requirements for 1975/76 are estimated
at US$54 million and an allocation of US$5. _Xmio.n. is proposed under this
credit for chemicals and spares.
Electrical Equipment
12.       This subsector embraces a wide variety of products and much of its
production is directly related to government developmental expenditure, both
at the central and state levels. In the supplementary budget presented in
July 1974, the Government confirmed that priority for the power sector would
be maintained. Allocations of US$17 million and US$28 million are proposed,
for power generating equipment and other equipment upto 66 Kv, respectively,
against foreign exchange requirements of US$169 million and US$110 million.
13.       Power-Generat±ng Equipment.   The manufacture of power-generating
equipment, particularly of larger size, is concentrated in the public sector,
primarily the enterprise Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL). Among the
specific items produced are hydraulic and steam turbines and turbo-generators,
as well as a number of products for transmission and distribution whiclh have
been included in other categories eligible for IDA finance. This subsector
has a relatively higlh import content currently on the order of 40 percent
of output value. It is hoped to reduce this in the next two years to less
than 30 percent as the local production of various components currently
imported (largely under bilateral aid programs) will be increased. The
request to make this industry eligible for IDA financing is designed to
facilitate the procurement of non-ferrous metal and special steel require-
ments whiclh have been in tight supply in world markets.
14.       Boiler Productior.   The ori-in of the boiler industry in India is
f-und in the need for industrial boilers and the last ten years have seen a
rapid growth in production nith a major expansion in types of equipment being
produced.  In 1966, the value of boiler prcduction was estimated at 37 mil-
lion rupees while in 1973, thc corresponding figure was 789 millicn rupees,
80 percent cf whichl was produced by ,;overnment-owned BEEL.  At the present
time, the pow-er needs of the country :Thve moved the Government to give
priority to the production of powr>r-,a.iieratfng bcilers Abased on local cual
to be util Iid .n the ,zenerating pr.      e of the State Electricity Boards
(S-Is) . These 'tems are lncreasi;      - laiger sizes, now of the range of



ANNEX XIV
Page 4
200 to 250 MW. Due to lack of locally produced heavy and large boiler
plates and sections required for this scale of production, import requirements
are relatively high, from 25 to 40 percent. Imports also include a number
of specialized components particularly seamless tubes. The Government's
request to add this industry to the eligible list for IDA finance is designed
to facilitate the procurement of tubes and plates in world markets.
15.       In addition to the BHEL installation, a major recipient of this
assistance is expected to be the privately-owned AVB factory which is now
negotiating a production license and the import of balancing equipment which
would permit it to double its capacity (frorn 500 to 1000 KVA annually), parti-
cularly for producing power-generating boilers, by the end of 1975. BHEL is
expected to raise its annual capacity from 1100 to 1500 KVA in the same time
period. While no major efforts have been made to undertake export programs
in view of domestic requirements, BHEL has on occasion entered international
competitive bidding for various items with some notable successes, suggesting
that the industry is relatively efficient.
16.       Electric Motors.   The production of these items was reduced in
1973/74 by a shortage of the special steels used in stampixgs as a result of
the shortfall in domestic production. While additional foreign exchange
allocations were made in an attempt to obtain external supplies, the world-
wide shortage served to limit the volume which could be imported. For
1974/75, the steel supply situation lhas generally improved and the local
stamping facilities are now operating at full production. As a consequence,
electric motor output in 1974/75 is expected to surpass the previous peak
levels achieved in 1970/71 and 1972/73.
17.       The bulk of the electric motors produced in the smaller sizes are
sold to the agricultural sector. With the growth of rural electrification
and irrigation programs, there has be2n buoyant demand for these items
which is expected to continue.   The larger motors are supplied to industry
and, while 1974/75 output has been unaffected by demand restraints, there
has been some decline in new orders which could affect 1975/76 output. More-
over recent credit restrictions have led to some delays in off-takes by clients
and requests for extension of payment terms which have in turn adversely
affected the liquidity position of the producing enterprises.
18.       Transformers.   These items are primarily supplied to the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) for their power generation and distribution programs.
In spite of local raw material shortages, production in 1973/74 increased sub-
stantially over the previous year and present expectations are for a further
increase in 1974/75. The Government has assisted in assuring adequate
raw material availability by raising substantially the foreign exchange
allocated to the industry to permit larger imports. Because of price increases
in the critical materials imported (special steel sheets, copper and alumi-
num) and volume increases, the import content of output which had been
reduced to as little as 2 percent in previous years has risen to 4 percent.
While most firms report order books from 12 to 18 months long, some are
nevertheless currently experiencing difficulties in ensuring off-take as
products are completed for delivery or in receiving payments for goods



ANNEX XIV
Page 5
delivered. Thus, the critical element in the production outlook for this
industry in 1975/76 will be the Government's support for the investment
programs of the SEB8.
19.       Switchgear and Control gear.   There was a substantial rise in
output in 1973/74 of the items falling within this category after some
stagnation in growth in the previous years. Demand increased from both the
power generating and manufacturing sectors. Current indications are that
output in 1974/75 will rise only slightly above the previous year with new
orders from manufacturing now showing a decline. While there continues to
be a long backlog of orders from the power-generating sector, these orders
are from the SEBs which are currently experiencing difficulties in financing
their purchases, as noted in the above discussion on transformers.
20.       Cables and Wires.   Worldwide shortages of copper and aluminum and
in some cases of insulating materials, have seriously affected the output of
these items. The sharp fall in local production of aluminum, which is dis-
cussed in some detail below, has aggravated this problem. As a consequence,
total output in 1973/74 was considerably below that of the previous year.
For 1974/75 and 1975/76 the apparent improvement in copper supplies may
permit some recovery in output; the Government is also considering some
import of aluminum to offset the fall in the locally produced supply.
21.       Stampings and laminations.   These  products are basic inputs for
the manufacture of the electric transformers and motors as described above.
A decline in domestic supply of special steel plates needed for these pro-
ducts led to a curtailment in stamping activity in 1973/74; while additional
import allocations were made by the Government in order to obtain external
supplies, such purchases were slow to arrive in the face of the worldwide
shortages. For 1974/75 and 1975/76 the supply situation for the special
steels has improved considerably and the local stamping industry is currently
working at full capacity.   There is some question whether this can be main-
tained in view of the uncertainty surrounding the demand situation for
electric motors previously mentioned.
Aluminum Smelting
22.       This activity, which Is one of thl most power intensive in all in-
dustry, has been extremely hard hit hy the conintrv's power shortage.   After
reaching a record output of 181,000 tons in 1971/72 (compared to a theoretical
capacity at the time of under 200,000 Lons) the industry's otlLput has fallen:
1/5,000 tons in 1q72/73 and 144,000 tons in 1973/74. It is now expected that
the output for 1974/75 will not exceed 130,000 tons.
23.       The decline in output has had serious consequences for a number
of aluminum consuming industries. Recognizing this, the Government has
permitted imports of primary aluminum and fabricated aluminum products
(including castings), for such diverse subsectors as electrical machinery
and commercial vehicles. In the face of continuing shortage, consideration
is now being given to the import of 20 thousand tons of primary aluminum for
export-oriented industries (defined as those exporting at least 10 percent
of output) which could be expected to be available for 1975/76.



ANNEX XIV
Page 6
24.       While on the national scale the power situation is likely to
improve in 1975/76, regional imbalances may not permit much improvement in
the allocation of power to the aluminum smelters; this allocation is largely
the responsibility of local governments which have tended to give the in-
dustry a low priority. However, the adoption of power rationing in certain
areas, while having only marginal effects on total output, could permit
higher production of the better quality electrical grade as compared to
commercial grade, the former being in particularly short supply. It should
also be noted that a recently completed addition to smelter capacity at
Belgaum is likely to remain unutilized because of poor power availability.
Import requirements are mainly spare parts and chemicals and an allocation
of US$2 million is proposed, primarily to finance chemicals, out of a total
foreign exchange requirement of US$18 million.
Commercial Vehicles
25,       Output of trucks and busses continue to show only marginal in-
creases as a consequence of labor unrest and of power and raw material
shortages affecting not only the main vehicle producing units but in many
cases the large number of auto ancillary industries supplying components.
PerformiaLce has been uneven among the individual firms, with the major pro-
ducer TELCO experiencing declines from its peak production in 1972/73 while
other large firms have been able to raise slightly their production in more
recent years. Total production in 1974/75 is expected to be slightly above
the 1973/74 level of 43 thousand vehicles. With some improvement in power
availability, reflecting among other things installation of standby generat-
ing capacity, and in foreign exchange allocations to permit import of
materials and components, including engines which are in particularly tight
supply locally, output is expected to expand by 7 percent in 1975/76.
26.       On the demand side, producers report lengthy order books and little
change in the rate of new orders.   Recent credit restrictions have resulted
in a shift by purchasers from commercial banks to hire purchase companies
as sources of finance. The latter generally charge higher effective rates
of interest and this may marginally affect total demand. In the case of
jeeps, there has been a sharp decline in demand for this type of vehicle
which is petrol-based. The high cost of this fuel has sharply reduced
consumer interest in most forms of oil-engine vehicles and there has also
been a cut in purchases by government agencies; in 1974/75 jeep production
may well be 15% below 1973/74 with little prospect for recovery in 1975/76
in the face of the current fuel price policy. However, three-wheeled vehicles,
with their lower petrol requirements, remain in relatively good demand.
Provided power and raw material shortages can be eased, output, which has
been stagnating of late, should expand.
27.       Import content had been reduced to about 10 percent, mainly for
special steels and components. However in 1973/74 there was a substantial
increase in the foreign exchange allocation to permit the import of certain



1(NNI s XIV
Peer: 7
locally produced items (largely fabrications of aluminum) which were in
short supply. For 1975/76, an allocation of $15 million has been indicated
out of total import requirements of $63 million. The commercial vehicles
subsector was the subject of a special analysis undertaken in late 1972 in
connection with the Eight Industrial Import Credit. The measures taken by
the Government and the individual enterprises studied at t-hat time to imple-
nent the recommendations of the survey team are discussed in Annex XIII.
Automotive Ancillaries
28.       The import requirements of these industries is varied and includes
specialized steels and ccmponents.  An allocation of US$25 million is proposed
out of a foreign exchange requirement of US$99 million.
29.       Automotive components and_parts.   After a sharp clecline in output
In 1972/73 resulting from power and raw material shortages and labor unrest,
these industries registered on balance a slight improvement in output in
1973/74.  However, this Increase was unevenly distributed amonp the items
involved and there was actually a shortfall in the output of a number of
components used in vehicles and tractors, particularly those made of aluminum
adversely affecting those subsectors. Moderate increases are anticipated for
both 1974/75 and 1975/76 although the stra1cture of output is expected to
change.
30.       Given the sharp decline   n new} oassenger vehicle and jeep produc-
tion, decreased denmand for these components has been experienced in the
currenlt year and lb expected to rontinue into 1975/76. Hlowever, thle more
im.Sortant market for replacemunlt parts Is expected to remain relatively
strong.  Thle major factors which will support output expansion are the ex-
pected growt.11 in commercial vehicle anid tractor production which draw a
large Iroportion of their cn.ponents from the ancillary industries and
the continued growth in replacement demand.   Finally, a number of enterprises
have uindertaken export rriarketing programs, In some cases in response to
assuming export obligations as a condition for receiving expansion licenses,
and.l further growth is expected in these orders.
31.       Storage batteries.  This industry experienced strong output growth
during 1973/74 which rontinu;es into 1q74/75.  Althou.gh th-ere hlave been some
difficulties in ob(aining imported Jesad, the industry lhas developed an
effortive scrap collection system whiclh has eased its raw material problems.
Curi ent .xpectat Ltons are for further production growth in 1975/76 through
be.tt.er ut ilIzat ton of Qxisi Ing capacity and the introduct ion of balancing
equipment to c,--rcute some ho! line'Is.  Although deman!d for batteries for
Jiew 'assenger cars lhas fa]lei, the replacement marketl remains strong and
demand for commerc.al vehicles continues to rise.  Exports have also slhown
reasonable growth rates, covering a wide varit--ty of battery types (indus-
trial to trtuck and auto batteries) and a wide spectrum of markets in both
developed and developing comntries5



ANNEX XIV
Page 8
32.       Tires and Tubes.  Output of these products, after recording steady
increases in recent years, is expected in 1974/75 to remain at the level of
the previous year as a result of power shortages curtailing output in a
number of plants. In addition, the availabi:Lity of raw materials, both
natural and synthetic rubbers and tire cords have caused some difficulties.
For 1975/76, expansion in output is expected partly due to the introduction
of standby generating equipment for plants in regions where power cuts are
particularly severe. Nevertheless, the continuing raw material shortages
could serve as a constraint on production.
33.       On the demand side, the bulk of the market is for replacement
which is expected to remain strong. Original equipment for new autos
account for between 6 to 7 percent of output so that the expected decline
in passenger vehicle production is unlikely to have much effect on total
activity. In this particular area, there has in fact emerged strong brand
preferences in view of the improved supply position. Tires for commercial
vehicles and wheeled tractors account for more than 50 percent of total
output and dealers report lengthy order books for these items. Some moderate
expansion in capacity for their production is expected to b_ completed during
this period as producers generally seek to restructure their output-mix to
meet the changing pattern in demand. Another component of the market, tires
for scooters and three-wheeled vehicles, is also showing continuing growith.
Castings and Forgings (including cast iron spun pipes)
34.       The previous credit included a small allocation for cast iron
spun pipes mainly for the import of molds. Reflecting the results of the
special surveys of the castings and forgings industries, which were completed
in May 1974, a specific category for these two groups is proposed and would
include spun pipes. Imports requiremunts are dies, die-molding materials
and special chemicals and an allocation of US$2 millioin is proposed out of
foreign exchange requiremenLs of US$10 million. The ;;,dian castings and
forgings industries have made major progress in recent years and have con-
tributed to broader industrial development because of their ahility to
supply essential inputs to other subsectors. Moreover, there appears to
exist substantial export potential for these items.
Machine, Cutting and Small Tools and Abrasives; Ball and Roller Bearings
35.       This group of industries covers a number of heterogeneous products
and discussion will concentrate on machine and small power tools which repre-
sent the bulk of output by value of the grouping. Import requirements are
primarily special steels and components. An allocation of US$14 million
is proposed out of a foreign exchange requirements of US$49 million.
36.       In the current decade, the Indian machine tool industry has been
one of the more dynamic in the industrial sector. In spite of production
problems arising in the previous two years which have continued in 1974/75,
these enterprises have expanded output in real terms of the ,rder of 10 percent



A>S;T-I''X A.IV
P%e   9
pFr annum.  Tn addition to the continued advance in import substiLution
(1mports accounting for only 15 percent of domestic machine tool supply in
1972174 as coLpared to 30 percent at the beginning of the decacie), a substan-
tial export effort has been undertaken with as much as 20 percent of output
in some of Lhe larger firms now devoted to foreign sales.
37.       The country has become completely self-sufficient in general
purpose machine tools (which also represent its major export item) and has
progressively taken on the production of more complex and larger types of
equipment. Plans are under consideration for a further expansion of the out-
put mix but, because these require the transfer of sophisticated technology,
the negotiations for the required production licenses and foreign collaboration
agreements have tended to be time-consuming. At the present time, industry
sources estimate some underutilization of capacity due largely to power
shortages in certain regions as well as late deliveries of special steels.
It is hoped that the impact of these shortages can be progressively reduced
in the immediate future and there has already been some improvement in steel
availability. Many producers report order books of 12 to 18 months output
but at the same time express concern that the rate of new orders may begin
to decline after the first of the year, particularly for clients producing
consumer goods. Current credit restrictions and declining demand among
consumer goods producers do not appear to have affected their existing expan-
sion programs which involve these kinds of capital goods but the industry is
aware of a number of clients who are delaying longer term expansion programs.
Very similar conditions are being experienced in the case of small power
tools where exports have had a major impact on the expansion of output.
Heavy Construction Equipment
38.       This subsector has experienced major growth since the beginning
of the current decade not only in the total number of units being produced
but also in the types and varieties. The fact that a number of successful
export bids have recently been obtained for the newer lines of products
and that previously established lines continue to expand their export efforts
confirms the observation in the previous report of the general competitiveness
of the items produced with those from developed countries. On balance, out-
put appears to have expanded in 1973/74 although not at the high rates
recorded in the previous years. For 1974/75 the rate of growth appears to
have picked up again. This has been achieved in spite of local power
shortages and some tightness in supplies of imported special steels used for
locally fabricated parts. These subsectors have a relatively high import
content of components (particularly the newer enterprises) which in accordance
with production licenses will be gradually reduced. During this difficult
period there appears to have been an adequate flow of these imported compo-
nents from external suppliers in accordance with the longer-term production
planning undertaken by the local firms (both in the public and private sector)
and their foreign collaborators. General prospects for 1975/76 are for
higher rates of growth, continuing the trend to produce new and more 'sopliis-
ticated items. A number of enterprises have installed standby power



ANI4EX XIV
Page 10
generating capacity and steel supplies have markedly improved eliminating
the main constraints on the production side. Total import requirements for
1975/76 are estimated at $30 million and an allocation of $8 million from
this credit has been proposed.
39.       On the demand side, the industry is expecting some decline for
equipment for road construction as it believes Government expenditure in
this area is likely to get lower priority under present anti-inflationary
policies. This will, however, be more than offset by an expected expansion
in demand for equipment for coal and other mineral development projects
(including quarrying), land development and irrigation programs. There also
continues to be major export possibilities not only among the neighboring
developing countries of Asia, the Middle East and Africa, but also in a
number of developed countries, for parts as well as finished equipment.
Major uncertainty at present centers on the demand for equipment for power
projects, generally undertaken by the SEBs. There has been some delay in
off-take as well as continued difficulties in receiving payments for delivered
items.
Spare Parts for Heavy Earth Movin   Equipment
40.       A census carried out by the CWPC in 1973 found that on the average
irrigation project, there was utilization of heavy earthmoving construction
equipment of only about 40 percent due mainly to shortages or an imbalance
in the stock of spare parts. Investigations by industry sources found a
similar situation on other major construction projects, including land
development and mining with, in some cases, the rate of utilization being
as low as 25 percent. Local sources can only produce some 30 percent of
spare parts requirements so that with inadequate imports, in the past equip-
ment maintenance suffered. Field reports indicate that there was some
deterioration in equipment utilization in early 1974, but that more recently
the flow of spare parts financed under the Ninth Credit have begun to ease
the situation. The supply of parts now in the pipeline and further allocation
under this proposed (Tenth) IDA credit are expected to enable machine avail-
ability to rise to about 60 percent. An allocation of US$9 million out of
foreign exchange requirements of US$20 million is proposed.
Export Performance of IDA Assisted Industries
41.       India's engineering goods exports during 1973/74 increased
substantially to over US$230 million compared with US$183 million in the
preceding year. To this expansion, IDA financed sector contributed about
28 percent or $64 million (Annex IX). The prospect for a further increase
in the current year appears good as engineering goods exports reached US$85
million during the first quarter 1974/75 (April to July 1974), or 45 percent
higher than in the corresponding period last year. Although much of the
recent surge in export earnings is attributed to higher unit values, some
volume increases have also occurred.



A!INEX XIV
P-ge 11
42.       The target for engineering goods exports in 197T/75 is US$312
million and its achievement will depend to a large extent upon production
perfonnance and improved transportation. One of the major problems
restraining export activities has been the lack of shipping space combined
with exceptionally high freight rates. The oil producing countries in the
Gulf area and countries in South Asia and Eastern Africa offer tremendous
scope for products from India, but quite a few of the ports in this area
are not touched by the shipping lines.   On the other hand, the high freight
on some of the commodities is a great hindrance: e.g. machine tools which
have considerable potential in West Europe and North America have to bear
a freight charge of between 25 percent to 40 percent of the f.o.b. value.
Another c3ifficulty is inordinate delays at the ports especially Calcutta.
A summary assessment of export performance by some of eligible industry
groups is set out below.
.lachine Tools and Small Tools
43.       For the machine tool industry as a whole, exports earnings
increased more than fourfold between 1966/67 and 1969/70. Earnings continued
to rise but strong domestic demand in 1972/73 had the effect of temporarily
reducing earnings. However, a recovery occurred in 1973/74 with earnings up
by 73% over 1972/73. There has been concerted effort on the part of major
manufacturers and the Government to promote export of machine tools. Markets
have been established in Europe and North America for most types of machines
produced in India including basic tools into which computer components are
installed in U.S. South-East Asia has recently emerged as a promising market
for machine tools and parts. A geographical advantage with competitive price
and quality should lead to further increases in exports to this region.
Exports of small tools have been high especially to U.S. Altogether exports
by this group increased by 30 percent in 1973/74.
44.       Automobile Ancillaries.   This group is the largest exporter
amongst the IDA-assisted industries. Automobile parts and components have
begun to be exported to Western Europe in substantial quantities. An
important factor has been exporting arrangements stemming from collaborative
agreements which have assisted in establishing acceptability. An increase
of nearly 40 percent in exports was achieved in 1973/74 and this industry
is very confident of maintaining a high rate of export expansion in Europe
and it is looking at the replacement market in Africa and South Asia.
45.       Commercial Vehicles.   Exports declined sharply in 1973/74 largely
on account of a delay in completing a bilateral trade agreement with Egypt;
shipping deLavs were also a problem.   The position for this fiscal vear has
improved considerably with the resumption of bilateral trade orders.
46.       Electrical Equipment.   The export of electrical equipment started
in 1967/68 and this group is the second largest exporter among IDA-assisted



ANNEX XIV
Page 12
industries. Exports comprise motors, transformers, switchgears, and cables
and wires. Domestic demand combined with production constraints limited
exports in 1973/74 which, for this group, showed only a marginal increase of
2 percent. The export of cables and wires is very promising. India has
excess capacity for paper insulated cables which are in demand in Africa and
South Asia.



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _IB R D B 3 83 8 7
II A                              ,  ',,JAHUA9  19T7
S                              '-I  - AIA"-k    fi
s   .}' PUNJAS  m  \'          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(T I a E T)
~~~~~~~~~~n-t                                                   *AAAAA  - r,,.
] ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 'Rst1~ h- J A                                      fl0A T  N4AAORbHA -'s.  -  >r  SAM ;
H I                                            pC  I  N  A 
r'~~~'_-'Z,>~~~~~lL,  <  t       SIUDRIS X~~~~'M! rBHUTLANEH+S.
4     L             E       ROURKE L              A 9OIA  M 
\  HILIAAL                                    9 HIRAKUD  fAAA
ANANBALONANCEAND
'I.  _,N O      A A  PRADrSH     J
D t (       v8ELHIUM '           | N   D  I              C
G S IS                   fLOAINOFMJR OURUSTRL              CENTERS
IL;H         A D  C
\;  Ft  I f | S; N; 9  t_,  O S  tAe  P  c n O
tn   \  EANG^LO UTtAR > IiOADSH  CN     A umnu  PloTno
OPOONA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA O 
EL 5ROMANDEL
'A OHYRA PRADESH      AOPItA   ErL
F^CBELOAU                               I  Nl7LilY  hi)h ,IL  4IIsILI1'
BALLA            OF MI LANKA   °JIR AD TI   CENTERS
B7pBA'                   BO'5-HARAVATI                o
NOELAL ALO      IADANAu-DIPan
o Stntoarol no  Tenr,..y   ors,e
Sisel Plo~ops o~cae
FA  u  AYE C                     0  Auninu,  la!
10-           COCHI                                   MILESAGALO EO(          O-_A
m                                     StaIN Or~~~~~~~~~~~~R L N A  L 11 10  U",a lerntor  B I'lOIA
I        1~~~~~~~)IAAii ,  IfjIIAif
I          0 ~  ~~~~~~~ 200  OMA TER0  00  800
'O.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90  -



