CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 528 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tenth Industrial Imports Program Credit)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 14, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 528 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tenth Industrial Imports Program Credit)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 14, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modificAtion thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely that paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the term  "Specified Enterprises" means firms, registered with the
Borrower's Directorate General of Technical Development of the Ministry of
Industry and Civil Supplies and others (excluding Hindustan Cables Limited,
Hindustan Teleprinters Limited and Indian Telephone Industries Limited), notified
from time to time by the Borrower to the Association, in the industrial
manufacturing sectors listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association;
(b)   the term  "Canalizing Agencies" means the following agencies of the
Borrower: the State Trading Corporation of India Limited, the Minerals and Metals
Trading Corporation Limited, the Hindustan Steel Limited and such other agencies
as may from time to time be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association; and


﻿4
(c)   the term "Authorized Dealers" means suppliers of spare parts for heavy
construction equipment authorized by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
of the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce for the purposes of this Agreement, as
notified to the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, raw materials,
semi-finished goods, components and spare parts required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to be procured through the
Canalizing Agencies, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1985, and ending November 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The   Borrower shall: (i) promptly     upon   receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available, promptly
as needed all foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the Project;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and programs for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the program (referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) of which the Project
is a part, the Specified Enterprises, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Specified Enterprises and Authorized Dealers shall not, on the grounds
that they are participating in the Project, be subject to any conditions or
requirements for issuance of import licenses and release of foreign exchange not
imposed on other enterprises engaged in similar business in the territories of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 31, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the Closing Date, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Officer
on Special Duty, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿7
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                          Dollar Equivalent)
(1)   Fertilizer and Pesticide                               37,500,000
Sectors
(2)   Other Sectors                                          62,500,000
TOTAL         100,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿9
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower to increase, during
the period from April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976, pioduction of goods for the
domestic civilian market and for export and utilization of existing equipment by
making available foreign exchange for the import of raw materials, semi-finished
goods, components, spare parts and miscellaneous items of manufacturing and
construction equipment improving thereby the rate of utilization of existing
productive and construction capacity and capital equipment in India.
The Project consists of provision by the Borrower of foreign exchange and
other resources required by the respective Specified Enterprises for production of
goods for the domestic civilian market and for export, and for timely completion
of construction works.
0


﻿11
SCHEDULE 3
Industial Manufacturing Sectors
under the Project*
Listed hereunder are the industrial manufacturing sectors of capital
equipment and other goods from which the Specified Enterprises and Authorized
Dealers are to be selected:
Agricultural
1.   Tractors and Power Tillers
2.    Fertilizers
3.    Pesticides
Electrical
4.    Motors, Transformers, Switchgear,
Stampings, Cables and Wires (up to 66 kv)
5.    Power Generating Equipment and Spare
Parts, and Boilers
6.    Aluminum Smelting
Transport
7.    Commercial Vehicles
8.    Automotive Ancillaries
Metal Working
9.    Machine Tools, Cutting and Small Tools, Abrasives, Ball and
Roller Bearings
10.  Castings and Forgings
Construction
11.   Heavy construction equipment and Spare Parts
*     See Section 1.02(a)


﻿12
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for the purchase of goods to be financed from
the proceeds of the Credit the cost of which is equivalent to $100,000 or
more:
(a)   offers shall be invited from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer.
2.    The Borrower shall cause each Canalizing Agency to retain all relevant
documentation relating to contracts financed in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Credit, including without limitation, the details of the offers
sought, the names of the suppliers invited to submit offers, the analysis of
offers, recommendations for award and conformed copies of such contract,
for review by the Association at its request.
3.    Applications for withdrawal in respect of contracts awarded to the lowest        -
evaluated offer shall be submitted to the Association with a certificate
indicating that the conditions set forth in paragraph I of this Schedule have
been satisfied, and with documentation on evidence of payment and of
shipment together with the supplier's invoice.
4.    The Borrower shall submit to the Association, together with any application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account, two certificates prepared
by the appropriate Canalizing Agency stating that: (i) the goods (or an
equivalent amount of the goods) in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested are for the account of, and have been or will be delivered to the
Specified Enterprises; and (ii) no withdrawal for these same goods has been
or will be made from the proceeds of any other external financing available
to the Borrower or the Canalizing Agency.
5.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after delivery of
the goods financed in whole or in part from the proceeds of the Credit
to the Specified Enterprises, such information as the Association shall
reasonably request regarding the per unit cost of the goods to the Specified
Enterprise.


