Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8079-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 1, 1990
Agriculture Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only lu the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizateon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc
US $ 1.00 - CFAF 324 (as of Deceaber 1989)
SDR - US $ 1.32
Weiphts and Measures
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
i
a



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATA/ATEI    - Agent Technique d'Agriculture/d'Elevagel
ATH           d'Horticulture (Technical Agent of Agriculture/Livestock/
Horticulture)
CA          - Conseiller Agricole
(Field Level Extension Agent)
CNCAS       - Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole du Sénégal
(Agricultural Credit Bank of Senegal)
DA          - Direction de l'Agriculture (MDR)
(Department of Agriculture - MDR)
DE          - Direction de l'Elevage (HRA)
(Department of Livestock - MRA)
FONGS       - Fédération des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales du Sénégal
(Federation of Non-Governmental Organizations in Senegal)
IRA         - Inspections Régionales de l'Agriculture (DA)
(Regional Inspections of Agriculture - DA)
IREL        - Inspections Régionales de l'Elevage (DE)
(Regional Inspections of Livestock - DE)
isR&        -  sht5Utut Séuégalais de Recherches Agricoles
(Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
MDR         - Ministère du Développement Rural
(Ilinistry of Rural Developpment)
PAGRI       - Programme Pilote d'Amélioration des Services d'Appui aux
Agriculteurs
(Pilot Extension Program)
PNVA        - Programie National de Vulgarisation Agricole
(National Agricultural Extension Program)
SAED        - Société Nationale d'Aménagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta du Fleuve Sénégal et des Vallées du Fleuve Sénégal et de la
Falémée
(Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SODEFITEX   - Société pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton Development Agency)
SODEVA      - Société de Développement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Groundnut Basin Extension Agency)
SRDR        = Société Régionale de Développement Rural
(Regional Rural Development Agency)
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paie
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS.......................................
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY             ........ .                 (iv)
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE         ...... (vii)
I. B ACKGROUND .........
A.  Introduction ..                                         1 
3. The Agricultural Sector      .         .                 2
C. Governgent ObQectives and Strategy         .      .      2
D. Sector Institutions .....................................  3
E. Bank's Lending Operations and Strategy       .     .     6
F. The Pilot Extension Program (PAGRI)         .     .      7
II.  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES .......... 8
A. Agricultural Extension ..................................  8
B. Agricultural Research               .        ..   9
C. Marketing and Credit                . . .   10
D. Agricultural Education ..................................  il
E. Functional Literacy ......................................... 12
F. Agricultural Producer Organizatlons             ..   12
III.   THE  PROJECT ............................ .  ......... ..................................... 13
A. Rationale ....................................... ........ 13
B. Concept and Objectives .................................. 13
C. Summary Description ..................................... 14
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which took place
May 15-June 2, 1989 consisting of Messrs. F. Schorosch, (mission leader), C.
Ameur, P. Sihm and Ms. J. Masterson (IDA), Mr. M. Niang (PAGRIIMDR) and Mr. Faye
(MRA).



(il>
Table of Contents (cont_nued)                                        Page
D. Detailed FPatures ................     *     .........os* 15
1. Improvement of Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Services ....... ................................ 15
2. Strengthening of Producer Organizations          ..  20
3. Strengthening the Analytical Capacity of
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) ............ 21
E. Project Cost and Financing      .      ................... 21
F. Procuremmnt ....... ...........                     ....... e 23
G. Diabursements .................................... ....... 25
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ...................... 26
A. Overall Project Organization, Management
and Financial Monitoring ................. ... ....    26
B. Implementation and Effectivenes  Monitoring .... .............   27
C. Linkages between Extension and Research .............. 28
D. Strengthening of Producer Organizations .................   29
E. Strengthening the Analytical Capacity of the Ministry
of Rural Development (MDR) ............................  30
F. Financial Management, Accounts, Audits and Reporting .... 30
G. Environsental Impact .................................... 31
V.    BENEFITS AND RISIS .................... o ..........32
A.  Benefits ........."o.    .    *1..    0*......    32
3. Justification ...................... 33
C.  Risks ................................  . .. *  . ... . .    34
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOIMENDATIONS  .. .......................... .  34
TEXT TABLES
. Number of Extension Staff in the Project ................. 15
. Project  Cost  S umary  ......... ........ .....  ...... . . . .. ..    22
. Financing  Plan            ...................................  ......   22
. Procurement Methode . ..................................... 23
. Disbursements .       ........................................   25



(iii)
Table of contents (continued)
ANNES
Annez ls    Technical R comendations Available
Anmez 2s    Extension Management Unit and Central Accounting an- Procurement
Unit: Terns of Reference
Annez 3s    Area Coverage and Staffing
- Field Staff for Crop Extension
- Field Staff for Livestock Extension
- Senior Staff of the Dspartments of Agriculture and Livestock
- Subject Matter Specialists)
- Geographic Coverage
Aunez 4s    Coit Tables
- Table l1Project Cost Sunmary
- Table 2s Sumaary Accounts by Project component
- Table 3s Sumary Accounts Cost Sumary
- Table 4s Project Components by year
Annez Si   Costs and Benefits
Annez Ge   Estie&ted Schedele cf Diaburfteents
Annez 7:    Strengthening the Analytical Capacity of the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR)
Annez 8s    Successful Esperience of the Functional Literacy Program
in the Eastern Senegal Rural Development Project
CHARTS      - Organizational Structure of Extension
- Agriculture Department
- Livestock Department
uPS
IBPD n 21784: Project Area 1990 and Ezecuting Agencies
IBRD n 21785s Project Area 1993 abd Ezecuting Agencies
IB'D n 21786s Research Zones and Facilities, and Training Centers



(iv)
SENEGAL
AGRICULTUR.AL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower       s  Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries s  Parers and herders, Ministries of Rural Development (MDR)
and Livestock Resources OIRA)
Amount         s   SDR 13.0 million (US$17.1 million)
Terme         1   Standard, vith 40 years maturity.
Proiect
escril>ption   s  This project is the firet four-year phase of a long-term
program aimed at improving agricultural support services to
farmers and herders. The project vould have one principal
component, namely improvement of crop and livestock extension
services, based on lessons learned during pilot operations
undertaken for two years; systematic lu-service training <f
extersion staff at all levels, formal research/extension
linkages,  and  careful  implementation  and  effectivenese
monitoring would be key ingredients of this component. The
project would have two secondary componentss (i) strengthening
of producer organisations through training of their leaders
and a functional literacy program; (ii) strengthening of the
analytical capacity of NDR through training and short-term
consultancies in policy formulation, project preparation and
appraisal, and performance monitoring.   The project would
provide   funding  for  vehicles,  equipment  and  modest
infrastructure, manpower development and training costs, and
operating costs.
Economic Rate
of Return  s  Not applicable.
Benefits           The improvement of agricultural support services to farmers
and Risks    s  and herders will contribute to the well-being of a large number
of rural families. About 60Z of the rural population (360,000
families) would be reached by improved crop and livestock
extension services, but how mamy of these households would
choose to adopt recommended practices cannot be estimated with
any precision. The main benefits would be (a) increased crop
and livestock output; (b) increased autonomy and self-reliance



(v)
of farmers' and herders' organizations due to functional
literacy  and  management  training;  (c)  more  effective
identification, testing and documentation of nei techniques
due to the training of large numbers of staff In communications
and management skills as vell as technical matters; aid
(d) institutional strengthening by building up the capacity
of the Agriculture and Livestock Departments to provide
extension services, and enhancing MDR's analytical capacity.
Possible risks includes Ci> ineffective management and training
of extension personnel; (ii) loi adoption rates of technical
recommendations by farmers and/or slow build-up of applicable
technology by research; and (iii) the possible failure of
government and/or donors to sustain the long-term comlitment
required to achieve durable improvements in the effectiveness
of agricultural support services.  To minimize these risks,
a two-year pilot operation vas undertaken and the lessons have
been  built  into  the  project  design.    The  project's
implementation and effectiveness will be carefully manitored,
and a mid-term review vill be held after two years of project
execution to review progress by each executing agency and to
determine the pace of further geographic expansion of project
activities.
IBRD 21784
IBRD 21785
IBRD 21786



(vi)
lsti ted Coste and FinancJap Plan
Estimated Costa a/                               Local        ForeiRn     Total
< (US S million).
Extension
- Agricultural Departmen;                        3.3           4.6        7.9
- Livestock Departuent                           0.7           1.2        1.9
Strengthening of Farmer Organizations
- Training of Farm Leaders                       0.3            -         0.3
- Functional Literacy Training                   1.4            -         1.4
Strengthening Analytical Capacity of MDR          0.3           1.1        1.4
Monitoring and Studies                            0.2           0.3        0.5
Program Administration                            1.1           0.8        1.8
Refinancing of PPF                                 -            1.5        1.5
Base Cost                                         7.3           9.5       16.7
Physical Contingencies                          0.3           0.4        0.8
Price Contingencies                             1.2           1.5        2.7
Total Project Coste                               8.8          11.4       20.2
ai Net of taxes and duties
Ilnancina Plans                                  Local        Foreian     Total
..  . (US$ million)......
Government                                        3.1          0.0          3.1
IDA                                               5.7        $1e4          17.1
TOTAL                                             8.8         11.4         20.2
Estiaated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
91        92        93        94
..........(US$ million) ..
Annual                                      6.2        4.2       3.4       3.3
Cumulative                                  6.2      10.4       13.8      17.1



(vii)
SNEG 4L
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRtAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TEU PROJICT FILE
1. Program e National de Vulgarisation Agricole.  Document de Project, HDR,
Dakar, 20 Mars 1989.
2. Rapport d'Evaluation du Progrnme Pilote d'Azélioration des Services d'Appui
aux Agriculteurs (PAGRI), MDR, Mars 1989.
3. Diagnostic et Perspectives de la Vulgarisation au Sénégal, J. Morize et P.
Sergi, FAO, Rome, Avril 1989.
4. Nouvelle Politique Agricole, MDR, Dakar, Mars-Avril 1984.
5. Ressources Humaines pour le Développement Rural du Sénégal, D. Kohli et J.D.
ittah, Union Mondiale ORT, Genève, Janvier 1988.
6. L'Organisation des Appuis aux Producteurs au Sénégal, D. Gentil, CCCE, 1989.
7. Detailed Project Cost Tables, February 1990.



SmNEG.àL
ACRICULTUEAL SERVICES PiOJiCT
STAFF APPIISAL MEPORT
I   BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01        The Governaent of Senegal han requested IDA'  *sal-stance to improve
the operation of its agricultural extension services. This need vas identified
following Governuent's analysis of the performance of the agricultural sector
over the late 1970'r and early 1980'., which led to the formulation of the NeV
Agricultural Policy (NPA). The énalysis revealed that productivity vas lagging,
mainly due to an interventionist approach to agricultural producers and
production vith excessive governmmnt interference. The analysis also showed
ineffective links betveen agricultural research and farmers via the extension
system and inadequate agricultural support services. Reforu ln this area vas
semn as vital if sectoral and ultimately national grovth objectives vere to be
met. During 1987188, Government, vith IDA's technical assistance, launched pilot
activities In three areas to test the applicabllity of tue basic principles of
the Tralning and Visit (T&V) symtem of extension ln the Senegalese context.
These tests have been positive and have helped to verify vork methods and norms
which Gowernment is nov lntroducing on a vider scale. The present project would
seek to harmonize gradually the approach to extension in the country, improve
the links between extension and research, and strengthen producer organizations.
It would also strengthen the policy formulation and analysls capacity of the
4inistry of Rural Development.
1.02        The project vould specifically focus on s
(a)   the strengthening of an agricultural extension planning. prograding,
coordination, and monitoring snd evaluation capacity at the national
level;
(b) the strengthening of the Departammts of Agriculture (DA) and
Livestock (DE) so that they can increasingly take on field extension
activities;
(c)   the improvement of extension activities lu selected parastatal
Regional Develop.eut Agencles (SRDR);
(d) the strengthnaing of farmer organizations; snd
(e)   the creation of a policy analysis unit in the linistry of Rural
Development.
It vould be executed over four years, at a cost of US$20.2 million, to be
financed by Goveroment and IDA.



-2-
B. The Aarictltural Sector
1.03        Senegal has a total laud ares of nearly 200,000 ku2. Its population
is currautly about 7 million. end is groving *t a rate of about 3 Z par nnua.
Par capits GIP for 1988 vas esttimtd at US S 630, the highist of the Sahel
couwtries. Since 1960, Senegal has experienced, ho»vaer, one of the lovst CDP
growth rates (2-3Z per sannu) of any African *tate not affected by var or civil
strife. Over the laut few years, agriculture, ihich accounts for about 20 S of
GDP, has contributed on average 22 Z of export revenues and has provided naarly
70 X of aIl aq>loyuent ln the *couoy.  Over 93 Z of the total sector incon is
derived from rainfed agriculture, vith groundauts reprasenting 75 Z of the total
monetar income for a typical farn fmily. Almost ill output of the rural sector
in produced by sall-scale unitu, but there is uwch diversity ln farm size, labor
avallability, ownurship of agricultural equipsunt, productivity, and incOma.
Since seven out of ton Senegaleae rely on the rural economy for their livelihood,
the sector vill romain the main source of *mployant snd incwae for the large
majority of the population for a long tim.
1.04        AveraSe rainfall has not only declined throughout the country since
the sixties, but lt has also become higly variable fro- one ysir to the next.
Arable land le estiaated at 3.8 million hectares (about 19 Z of the land
surface), of which about 2.5 million ha are cropped snnually.   Extensive
agriculture li still dominant and population pressure is causing a constant
shortenig of falloW perieds.  The main crope cultivated are grom.idutse 2sd
millet/sorghum, followed by maize, rice, cotton, cowpeas and cassava.
Agricultural exports, including fisheries, remain essential to Senegal's balance
of payments, although export earulags dropped in 1986 - 1988 due to falling
international prices of groundaut and cotton and in the appreciation of the CFA
franc vis-à-vis the dollar.
1.05        Despite considerable efforts at modernization, agriculture continues
to exhibit negative growth per head of the rural population. Aside from the poor
climatic conditions, ome of the sector's principal constraints relate tot (i)
lack of dynamis in agricultural technology geaneration and diffusion, (il) the
high level of dependence of the rural sector on millet/sorgpum for domestic
consumption Asd on groundaut production for export and llmited efforts lu crop
diversification; (iii) the lack of a vell-fsnctioning capital market snd credit
system ; (iv) the lor productivity of large-scale public investments; (v) the
veak institutional esvironmsnt for project Identification and implementation;
and (vi) insufficient asd veak agricultural producer organizations.
C. Governument Objectives and Strateay
1.06        Governrent objectives, strategy and policie. lu the rural sector have
evolved ln response to changes in econouic conditions snd as a result of the poor
performance of the sector. During the 1960's snd 1970's, Goernument efforts to
promote agricultural production focussed almost exclusively on the groundnut
subsector. Input distribution vas tied to grouadaut sales, and cereals marketing
policy did not encourage production of marketable surpluses. For most farmers,
groundauts vere therefore the single most important cash crop, wille cereals



remained subsistence crope.
1.07        Adjustmunt of the .conoey becam unavoidable at the snd of the 1970's
when a cmbination of poor finmncial policies. overambitious lnvestmant programu,
excessive internal and external borrovings, vorsened terms of trado, and
successive droughts plunged an already veakened economy into a severe crisis.
In response to this situation, an adjutmant program vas introduced in the early
1980's to restore the country's economy through firu management of aggregate
demand. Hoever, these policies verm not sufficient to avoid deterioration of
the country's financial situation und the growth of external debt.  A new
adjustmsnt framework vas thus formulated in vhich the agricultural sector plays
a key role. This nev framevork concentrates on lifting supply-side constraints
snd on creating an environment conducive to private sector participation and to
a reduced role for the State.
1.08        Vithin this framework,  the Goverument issued In 1984 the New
Agricultural Policy (NPA), of vhich the basic aim vas to promote food self-
sufficiency vhile consolidating the gains dorived from industrial crops. The
NPA i oriented around five main axess (i) organization and active participation
of farmers, and of the private sector in general vith a concomitant reduction
of public controla (ii) reorganization and reduction of public intervention;
(iii) improvement of input supply through the provision of adequate financial
incentives; (iv) better organization snd management, and (v) reduction of pre-
snd post-harvest losses through intensified pest control. Thus the main thrust
of the NPA vas to refocus reforme so as to emphasize the management of both
demand snd supply.
D. Sector Institutions
1.09        The Ministry of Rural Develoament (MDR) has overall responsibility
for the sector, but several other Ministries, notably Livestock, Enviroumental
Protection, Hydraulica, Social Development, Interior and Public Vorks, each have
some responsibility for rural development.  lhile the Ministries are primarily
responsible for policy-making, the actual implementation of those policies, since
independence, has been entrusted to a number of parastatal Regional Development
Agencles (SRDRs) rather than to Goverzment Departments. Each agency vas charged
vith implementing rural development programs in particular geographic areas.
Moreover, MDRI's policy-making. investment-screening and performance monitoring
capabilities have not been, snd are still not, strong; the implementing agencies
have had a large voice in inveetment decisions, snd their performance has not
been subject to regular, close scrutiny.  And policy-making, necessarily an
inter-ministerial business in a country vhere still 70Z of the people depend on
agriculture, has suffered from a lack of intellectual leadership from the MDR.
1.10        The  Minister  oversees  five  Departmentss  Agriculture,  Plant
Protection, Cooperatives, Seed Production and Control and General Administration.
Altogether NDR'o technical staff is 740. At present, a reorganization of the
Ministry is being planned vhich has, as one of its principal objectives, to
strengthen its operational capacity in the field and to create the position of
Rural Development Manager in all ten provinces, vho would be the direct and oanly
representative of the Minister.



1.11        The DA includes four divisions and *everal sections (see Annez 8).
It has a total technical staff of 630, including field staff. In the feld, the
DA is represented in each province by a provincial inspector, who operates under
the direct authority of the Director of Agriculture.   Bach Inspection is
subdivided into sectors et the district level, and field level staff are located
at the county and sometime rural community level.
1.12        Over the years, MDI's staff has greatly increased, as graduates of
the agricultural training echoolu vnre absorbed lnto the civil service, In fact,
up to nov, entrants lato these schools have been autosatically accepted as civil
servants. While in the paet many of the assistant level staff (ATA) vere
seconded to SRDRs to vork in specific developmsat projects. this la no longer
feasible as the SRDRs are increasingly la financlal difficulties themselves and
their scope and functions are being drastically reduced as part of the NPA.
1.13        The Ministry of Animal Resources (RIA) in responsible for animal
health services and livestock developmsnt at the national level. The Minister
oversees two Departments: Livestock and Oceanography and Fisherier, one SDaR,
one mixed enterprise, and four projecte. Total technical staff of the MA is
607. The DE includes four techaical divisions (<ee Annex 8). ln the field,
the DE is represented iL each region by a provincial inspector, who operates
uader the direct authority of the Director of Livestock.   Each provincial
inspection in subdivided isto departmental subsections (30), each having several
veterinary poste. Altogether, there are 200 veterinary poste. the technical
staff of the livestock department consiste of 54S livestock officers, of wtich
101 intermediate level staff (ITE) and 444 techalcal agents of livestock (ATE).
1.14        Most of the Department'. vork is directed at control of the major
endemic  cattle  diseases.    Vaccination  campaigns  against  rinderpest  and
pleuropaeumonla are carried out annually and mobilize most of the Department's
field staff up to 2-3 monthe. For the rest of the year, because of a shortage
of funde and an orientation tovards curative animal health, visite to herders
by field staff are limited.  Their development impact ls thereby severely
limited.   Nevertheless, the assistant level staff  (ATE)  as vell as the
lntermediate level staff (ITE) are relatively vell trained and can be used as
extension agents and supervisors. Under the project, the objective is to convert
most field level staff of the DE into real extension agents and to start the
process of privatization of veterinary services.
1.15        The SiDRe Lacludes  SAMD for Irrigation development in the Senegal
and FalfmXe river valley, SODEFITMX for cotton development in Eastern Senegal,
SODEVA for agricultural development in the Grouadaut Basin, SONIVAC for regional
development planning in the south and SODAGRI for irrigation development in the
south-east. Up to the declaration of the NPA, these SRDRs vere responsible for
a vide range of services to the agricultural sector, covering practically every
aspect from ILput and credit supply to technical assistance and marketing. Most
external investmente for agricultural developuent vere conceived in the form of
integrated rural development projecte and channeled through these SRDRs. The
total personnel employed by these agencies in the early 80's grev to vell over
4,000. This staff vas relatively vell paid and equipped, compared to Goverament



- 5 -
Departmants but the financial soundnsss of the agencies was unduly dependent
on foreign-financed projects; only SODEFITEX generates lt. onn resources from
cotton exports. The SEDRU enjoy different degrees of financial and managerial
autonomy and their roles are defined ln *Lettres de Mission'.
1.16        As the responsibilities of the SRDha expanded. some Government
Departasts retained, at the same tim, considerable responsibility for project
execution. These Departmsnts included Animl easources, Forestry, and Vater
Supply. Those Departasnts that no longer had m*ch responsibility for field-
level execution of agricultural projects and programe (Departaent of Agriculture)
still retained a nationvide network of field staff. At the local district level,
some staff from these departments as vell as from the Ministry of Social
Development, vere attached to the Ministry of Interior and physically and
organizationally grouped into Polyvalent Rural Development Centers.   These
Centers exist in each of the country's 90 districts.  Although based on the
attractive idea of 'community development', for lack of clearly defined
objectives and technical competence, the centers have generally been ineffective
and ln contrast to the SRDRs, alvays *tarved of operating funds. Most of the
staff of the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock currently attached to the
Centers in the area covered by the proposed project vill gradually go back to
their departments of origin and become part of the extension staff.
1.17        Of the five SRDRs depending on MDR. three participated in the pilot
extension programs SOMIVAC, SAED and SODEVA. A governmental decision has since
been taken to transfer extension responsibilities from SOMIVAC to an integrated
rural development project (DERBAC) located lu Ziguinchor and financed by the
African Development Bank.   The proposed project vould provide technical
assistance to this project, since Lt vould use the same extension approach. The
other two SRDREs vould continue as executing agencies under the project.
1.18        SUCD vas set up in 1965 as a public enterprise to plan and manage
irrigation development along the Senegal River valley. Since 1981, the companygs
role and functions are defined in three-year contracta vith the government
(Lettre de Mission). Under the third 'Lettre de Ilission' SAED vill progressively
abandon lt. auxiliary production activities and concentrate on the folloving
public service functionst (a) irrigation infrastructure development, and (b)
technical advice to farmers, including literacy, and technical and management
training.  SAED has presently 74 extension agents (CA) (one per 500 ha of
irrigated agriculture) that vere trained by its oun Training Division. These CA
are under the direct responsibility of the directors of the irrigation perimeters
in each of SAED's four decentralized operational zones in the valley. All of
SAED's extension staff vill participate in the project, using a common approach
to extension .
1.19        SODEVA vas established in 1968 to provide extension services in
Senegal' Groundnut Basin. After its total staff reached close to 2,000, in the
late 1970's, today lt has only 500 left and its field staff is to be reduced to
150. Staff above the level of field extension vorkers are mostly seconded to
SODEVA from the civil servJce. Field vorkers used to be recruited vith primary
or secondary school education and vere trained on-the-job.   They are not
graduates of the country's agricultural training schools and therefore fall below



the ATA level. The Institution le in a permnent finascial crisis as it depends
largely on the vagaries of external *id.  Successive staff reductions have
severely lovered staff morale. SODEVA's 32 extension agents in the Thiès Region
vil! participate under the proposed project. In this region, in 1987, SODEVA
constituted a core of extension agents at the ATA level - the level considered
necessary by for effective extension. The coutinued participation of this agency
in the project vill be revisved at the tin  of the nid-tor reviev (see para.
3.06).
E. Bank'" Lending Operations ard Stratepy
1.20        Bank Group lending to Senegal's rural sector as of mid 1989 amounted
to US$170 million for 19 projects, 14 of which had been completed.   These
operations have been in various subsectors, comprising: five projectu for
engineering, technical assistance and construction of polders sud large irrigated
perimeters; tvo agricultural credit projectu; two projects for rice cultivation
in the souths two resettlement project. in eastern Senegal; two rural
development-type projects, one in the Sine-Saloum snd the other in eastern
Senegal; a livestock development project in eastern Senegal; a forestry project,
three rural development fund-type projecto, the Drought Relief Fund and two small
rural operations projectu; and one agricultural research project.
1.21        Project performance has in general been patchy, vith poor management
performance and auticipated benefits increasingly unrealized, as completion
reports and prolect performance audits have consistently noted. Factors cited
as contributing to this generally disappointing performance ares (i) non-project
factors ranging from poor rainfall to inadequate national policies regarding
input and output pricing, credit and marketing; (ii) poor choice of technologies;
and (iii) the weak institutional enviroament and the poor management performance
of SRDRs.
1.22        Until the early 1980's, Bank assistance vas mostly project-oriented.
The acute financial crisis of the past several years and the magnitude of the
structural distortions in the econoqy led to a major shift in the Bank's
strategy. The Bank Group's operations nov have the folloving main objectives:
first, to assist the Government vith structural adjustment lending operations,
accompanied where appropriate by techuical assistance, in order to improve
production incentives and the efficiency of economic management, and to put
medium-term development efforts back on a sound financial footing; second, to'
promote the econmy's long-term grovth and development by supporting structural
adjustment through vell-prepared lnvestments, rehabilitation efforts and sectoral
adjustment operations vithin a framework of appropriate sectoral policies; third,
to Iprove our knowledge of Senegal's economic, social, isntitutional and
administrative framevorks so as better to tailor policy reforms to the country's
absorptive capacity; and fourth, to help improve aid effectiveness in Senegal
by acting as the focal point for aid coordination between donors and the
Government, at the same time assisting the latter to strengthen its ovn planning
and aid coordination ability.



- 7
V. The Pilot ZEtension Prograi (PAGRI)
1.23        In mid-1987, the Bank und the Senegalese Covernuent discussed ways
and means for improving extension  services  in the  country.   Governnent
Departents had already, in the contest of the XPA, diagnosed the fundamental
veakuesses of extension as carried out by the SIDIs, and vere keen to test nev
approaches, vith a particular focus on diagnosing problema, and disseination,
by encouraging testing by faruers, of appropriate techniques. Ey Septeuber 1987,
a PPF vas put in place to fund the activities of a pilot extension program
(PAGRI) and a Bank staff auber vas posted to the Dakar Resident Mission to
support this progrun.  The Government decided that the pilot program should
involve three SRDRs - SAED, SODEVA and SONIVAC - as vell as the Research
Institute, and specific areas in the Fleuve Region (irrigated agriculture), the
Groundnut Basin and the Ziguinchor vere selected.  Overall, about 100 field
level extension staff participated in the first year's program in 1988.
1.24        An evaluation of PAGRI vas undertaken by an lnterdisciplinary team
of the Ministries of Rural Development and Planning in December 198SIJanuary
1989.  The overall results vere judged positive and the Miuistry prepared the
Programie National de Vulgarisation Agricole tPNVA) which forms the basis for
the extension component of the proposed project.
1.25        the main positive results of PAGRI found by the evaluation team vere
that farmers appreciated the nev approach to extension whereby, during regular
staff visits, they vere encouraged to experiment vith nev agricultural practices
on small plots of their fields.  lu contrast to earlier extension programs,
farnmers were encouraged to select improved techniques from a "menu, and to
undertake their field tests on vhatever scale they chose. Also, the motivation
of extension agents vas much improved and they expressed their satisfaction vith
being able to perform a valuable service to the farming comeunity. Finally, the
utudy found that PAGRI had been able to generate genuine interest among research
staffs and to obtain their collaboration in jointly diagnosing farmers' problema,
formulating technical recommendations, regularly visiting the fields to assess
the performance of these technologies on the pilot plots, and in training and
exchauging information vith technical staff of the SRDRs. In all, farmers set
up 1,000 test-plots and found that substantial yield increases could be obtained
through the introduction of improved, lev cash-cost technology. On the other
hand, the evaluation team pointed out the need to pay particular attention to:
(i) clearly specified contractual relationships betveen the central extension
coordination unlt (formsrly PAGEI, nov the Extension Management Unit) and the
executing agencies; (ii) intensification of training at all levels to master
concepts of extension related to test-plots snd contact groupa, (iii) deepening
of underatanding of scientific concepts underlying technical recomendations and
increasing extension agents' capacity to diagnose location-specific probleme on
their own, (iv) adaptation of vork schedules accordiug to the different seasons,
and (v) introduction of greater flexibility la the use of external funds to make
it possible to prefinance expenditures. These recomuendations have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
1.26        Subsequent to the evaluation report, the results of the firet year's
monitoring became available. Measured yield differeuces betveen test and control



- 8 -
plots manag8d by the sa  farmrs averaged 502 for millet and rice, and 25Z for
groundnuts and covpeas. Ia general, but not La *Il cases, the test plots for
millet, groundauts and coupeas received no purchasse inputs but better cultural
practices and manure, uhile the test plots for rice rsceived fertilizer as vell
as better cultural practices. Since farmers vere invited to select their tests
from a menu of options, the monitored data cover a vide range of tests, and the
number of observations per test vas small. Thus, hile the observed average
yield increases cannot be interpreted vith statistical precision, they clearly
undicate that large yield increases under farmer conditions are attainable. This
finding doe not anser the question of adoption, since what can be achieved vith
attentive care on a suall plot cannot always be replicated over a uhole farm.
The question of adoption is a particular focus of the monitoring work undertaken
in the second year's program in 1989.  Alrsady, however, a survey by a
sociologist in Ziguinchor in early 1989 found that 40Z of contact farmers
intended to apply their test techniques to their vhole area in the 1989 planting
season, and the remaining 60S to a larger part of their area than the size of
the 1988 test plot. Measurement of adoption vill have to continue to be a focal
point of monitoring vork.
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Agricultural Extension
2.01        Senegal has a long history of extension vhen compared to other
countries in the region. Extension activities started in the early 40's, vell
befoie independence.  At the time, they vere the sole responsibility of the
Ministry of Rural Development (NDR).   Agricultural extension services are
currently aplit among no less than five ministries including the MJnistry of
Rural Development, the Ministry of Animal Resources, the Ministry of Natural
Resources Protection, the Mlinistry of Social Development and the Ministry of the
Interior, six Regional Development Agencies (SRDRs), and ten Provincial
Inspections of Agriculture. There is little coordination between the SRDRs and
the Provincial Inspections although they all come under the MDR. The SRDRs
depend entirely on the vagaries of external financing, resulting in haphazard
actions that seldom fit any global and coherent planning at the national level.
The Provincial Inspections, the so-called traditional services, are inoperative
for most of the year, due to lack of goverument funds. As a result, the staff
is confined to the collection of statistics and monitoring crop development,
during the agricultural season. They no longer carry out extension vork as such
and, due to a lack of mobility, are out of touch vith farmers. In addition to
the governaent agencies and bilateral projects entrusted to the SRDRs, there are
some 105 Non-Governmental Organizations that implement their own programs vith
little monitoring by Goverrent.   This multiplicity of donors, r-tors and
decision-makers has resulted in a marked variability in both the approach and
systems used for transferring technology and other messages to farmers. There
is no coordination between the agencies, projects and donors, who are often
working in adjacent and sometimes even the same areas.
2.02         In varying degrees. all extension services have shown the folloving
shortcomingss (a) no regular program of field visits by extension agents: (b)



- 9 -
inadequate supervision and control by supervisors; (c) insufficient and/or
unsystematic training of staffs (d) poor links vith research; and (e) providing
limited crop-specific informtion rather than information on a vide range of
farming systme. In addition, mont entities ouffer fras insufficient operational
funds, cumbersom  procedures for acquiring equip_ent, and a lack of mobility of
personnel. The absence of rules at the national level def ining staff allovances
has resulted in great instabliity, as «ach donor nets lts ovn travel allovance
policy, and staff gravitate to the projectu that pay best. Under the proposed
project. a policy on travel allovances hao been defined, that vill be applied
to ail NDR and MRA projectu.
2.03        lu lino vith the Government's  Nev Agricultural Policy , and the
firat results of the pilot extension prograa, the folloeing actions are being
pursued and/or envisageds (a) the approach to extension is gradually being
harmonized at the national level; (b) some SRDRs are being phased out as the
various donor-financed projects come to an end; (c) the Provincial Inspections
are to be given greater responsibility for extension through more adequate
funding; (d) extension personnel is to become multi-disciplinary thus avoiding
costly duplication5 (e) excess staff is being reduced; and flnally much emphasis
is being placed on training au vell as on strengthening current links between
extension and research.
B. Agricultural Research
2.04        Agricultural reseurch vas first establilhed in Senegal in 1921 to
produce improved varieties of groundnuts and to study related cultivation
methods. In 1933, research vas expanded to those food crops grown In association
vith groundauts: millet, sorghua and covpeas. The French research organization,
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrières (IRÂT),
vas then in charge of the program.  Animal research began in 1935 vith the
establishment of a veterinary laboratory and the subsequent support, in 1960,
of the French organiation, Institut d'Elevage et de Médecine Vetérinaire des
Pays Tropicaux. Ir 1974, Institut Sénégalais de la Recherche Agronomique (ISRA)
vas created; it covers crop, animal, forestry and oceanographic research. In
1986, the overall responsibility for agricultural research vas transferred from
the Kinistry of Scientific and Technical Research to MDR.
2.05        Polloving the Firet Agricultural Research Project financed by IDA
in 1983, a second project vas prepared and has been negotiated. The lessons
learned from the first project point to the fact that research (i) had poor
linkages vith extension, resulting in research results being only to a limited
degree passed on to farmers; and (Ci) vas heavily oriented towards plant
breeding. Other shortcomings includedt (a) food crop research concentrated on
cereals and legumes using improved varieties, fertilizers and pesticides, to the
detriment of developing lov cash-cost technology more suitable to the traditional
type of agriculture carried out by most farmers; (b! the crop-specific
orientation had detracted attention from farming systeme issues such as mixed-
cropping,  anti-erosion measures,  financial viability of newly recomuended
technologies, labor availability, crop diversification, and the integration of
livestock, and (c) little emphasiu vas given to developing adaptive research
programs based on diagnosis in the field vith farmers, extension agents and



- 10 -
on-farm trials. As for livestock, while research in animal pathology, especially
in disease control end vaccine dtvelopmeat and production, has made significant
progress in past years, more needs to be done in transferring and integrating
research findings into current production systeu and in reinforcing the
integration of livestock and crop production system.
2.06        Despite mome institutional, staffing and financing problems currently
being addressed by the proposed Second Agricultural Research Project, ISRA
research has already generated mmny valuable varleties and useful technologies
for the agricultural sector. In the major agricultural zones, rainy seasons have
become chorter (by 10 to 20 days) and drier (average of 200 am less rainfall)
during the past two decades. The groundaut and emall grain (millet and sorghum)
plant breeders have succeeded in developing short-cycle drought resistant
varieties vith acceptable yields and quality.   Some of these varieties are
already being extensively used by farmers, as is the Aspergillus f lavus resistant
groundnut variety nov videly planted in the northern part of the groundaut basin.
A technical package minaikit) for covpea has been developed and extended to
farmers. The variety and technical package nov being used by cotton faraers in
eastern Senegal enables good yields to be obtained. Veterinary research has
developed an effective program of disease control and appropriate forestry
research has identified suitable species for different agro-ecological areas.
The farming systems research teame have, in their definition of the principal
farming systems and in their identification of the most important technical
constraints, provided a strong foundation for effective research during the next
phase of ISRA's development.
2.07        For mout cash and food crops, the current large disparities in yields
between the average and the better farmers and the resulte on research stations
allov for sizable productivity gains. These could be obtained by a vider
diffusion of improved cultural methode and already available, vell-tested
research recommendations.
C. Marketina and Credit
2.08        As part of the NPA, the Government has decided to disengage from
input distribution and marketing of cereals. At present, the private sector is
taking over the distribution of fertilizers, phytosanitary products and
agricultural equipment. Agricultural seed production also is to be transferred
to the private sector. Pre-basic seed is produced by ISRA, basic seed by MDR's
Seed Production and Control Department and seed multiplication is carried out
by private grovers organized by the SRDRs and increasingly by private sector
organizations such as the chemicals distribution company and the Senegalese Sugar
Company. Agricultural equipment is produced and marketed by SISMAR. The
transition of agricultural input supply from the public to the private sector
is not vithout pain, as the demand for these inputs is rather limited given the
climatic risks and the difficulties faced by farmers in obtaining credit. Also,
the heavily subsidized Interventions by Goverument in the past did not encourage
the development of private entrepreneurs Ln these areas. The proposed project
vill improve th$s situation by facilitating the flov of information from
producers to suppliers and vice-versa via the extension agents and by testing
and demonstrating the economic benefits of different production inputs in various



- il -
agroecological zones. The informtion so generated vill be analyzed vithin the
extension system and passed on to national policy makers. thereby allovitg for
* botter informed agricultural policy formulation procesu.
2.09        The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Sénégal (CNCAS) vas
created in 1983 folloving the collapse of the main institution previously
responsible for agricultural credit. Itt equity capital amouts to CFAP 2.3
billion (US $ 8.4 million) of vhich CFA? 1.7 billion (US $ 6.2 million) have been
paid in. Itt main shareholders ore the Goverament, Banque Nationale du
Développement du Sénégal, Banque Centrale des Statu de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CNCA-France sad the French aid agency, Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique.
CNCAS'. field level activities started in 1983 asd since then it has provided
rural credit for agriculture, forestry, livestock, fishing snd trade, snd has
collected rural savings. CNCAS plans to expand gradually its branch netvork to
various towns to meet the short- snd medium-term credit demand of farmers,
collect savinga, and progressively replace the SIDRs as credit supplier in rural
areas. Hovever, its borrover eligibility criteria are necessarily prudent, in
viev of past failures of agricultural credit institutions. At the same time,
credit recover lia rainfed farming is still a problem. Sound extension advice
to farmers on the efficiency and riskiness of agricultural inputs should increase
the profitability of the investments and thereby improve credit repayments.
D. Agricultural Education
2.10        Senegal has six agricultural schools offering three levels of
training s (a) a basic level (Agent Technique d'Agriculture - ATA; Agent
Technique d'Elevage - ATEs Agent Technique d'Horticulture - ATH; and Agent
Technique des Eaux et Forêts - AT£?) provided by the agricultural achools in
Ziguinchor, Saint Louis and Bambey suitable for extension agents and lover level
staff of the ministries sad other parastatals; (b) an intermediate level
(Ingénieur des Travaux - ITA) by the Ecole Nationale des Cadres Ruraux in Bambey,
suitable for middle level field officers; and (c) a higher level, agricultural
engineer program, offered by the Institut National de Développement in This.
The first four schools are secondary schools, providing three years of training
folloving lover secondary education. The other tvo provide post-secondary
training (BAC plus three and five years respectively). In-service trainin8g i
provided by two training centers located in Thils snd Bambey. For the livestock
sector, the lcule Inter-Etats des Sciences et Médecines Vétérinaires
(E.I.E.S.M.V.! in Dakar is responsible for the training of veterinarians.
2.11        The major veakress of the system is that it ls exclusively geared
toward the needs of Government services. This has tvo negative consequencest (i)
the number of annual graduates le set according to the projected needs of the
civil service which, in the current circumutances of budgetary constraints,
induces a reduction in the number of trainees and a substantial under-utilization
of the schools' capacity; snd (1i) students. benefitting from assured job
openings, lack incentives to iLprove their performance. Improvement of Senegal's
agricultural training system is part of the Bank's sectoral dialogue vith
Goveroment on vocational training more generally, and vill be addressed under
the Human Resources Sector Loan under preparation.



- 12 -
E. Punctional LiteracS
2.12        Senegals literacy rate of about 28Z in an important obstacle to
economic develop»ent and to effective comunication among extension staff,
remearchers and farmers. The Governm nt'u long-term objective la to have farmers
manage their onn remources nd to encourage producer organizations managed by
farmers theselves. Also, as part of the disengagent of the State and the
parapublic sector from many production support activities, especially
distribution of inputs and mrketing of output, farmrs need to develop nev
skilla to deal individually and collectively vith this changing environunt. This
means, for example, that farmrs need to be trained to create and manage their
onn organisations  nd for this basic skills in record keeping nd financial
management art indispensable. The proposed project includes *uch a component
that in based on the successful experience vith functional literacy in vernacular
languages ploneered under the Eastern Senegal Rural Development Project (Credit
1406-SE)., sec Anmez 8.
F. Agricultural Producer Organizations
2.13        Mhile the atate-run cooperative movememt ha. declined in importance,
new forms of farmer organisations have come into being. These nev organizations
auch as the Groupement d'IntdrQt Economique are much 1maller than traditional
cooperatives, and their members have more clearly defined common economic
interests. At the same time, in several parts of the country, farmers have
started to croate local and regîonal level organizsations to foster their own
intereste. the result of this movement is the Federation of Non-Governmental
Organisations in Senegal (<ONGS), created ln 1976 through the initiative of a
number of farmer leaders. PONGS vas recognized officially by the Senegalese
government in 1978 as a non-profit, socio-economic organization. Among its
objectives are to provide technical nd administrative support to its member
farmer organizations and to serve them as an information and training center.
Resource people vithin FONGS provide (i) management training for accouatants and
treasurers of member village organizations, (il) training of community
development vorkers in the use of visual aida in local languages, nd (iii)
assistance to village organisations to identify nd prepare their ovn development
projects. Today, the membership of PONGS consista of nine large regional level
organizations vorking vith approximately 180,000 members. the project will
collaborate vith lONGS md other producer organizations to increase the
effectivenest of extension services and at the aame timo to strengthen producer
organizations <paras. 3.20 and 3.21).



- 13 -
11. TuE PKOJECT
A. Rationale
3.01        To enuure  a mort effective  *ystm  of agricultural technology
generation and diffusion, it is essential to iprove the links between remearch
and extension, to increase the efficiency of the country's extension services
and to strengthen producer organizations. The proposed project vould accelerate
the proceus of reforming extension services vith the goal (i) of harmonizing
and eventually unifying then, and (ii) meking thu  responsive to farmers' needs;
this has been identified by Governunet as a priority objective. Through numerous
agricultural extension projects in uany parts of the vorld, the Bank Group hau
vide experience to offer in this field. IDA participation *hould also assist in
harmonizing the approach to promotSng agricultural growth which is needed, given
the current dispersion of efforts among a great number of projecta and donors.
The project forme an integral part of Government' and IDM's agricultural sector
development *trategy and is closely linked to the proposed Second Agricultural
Research Project. It ls also part of Senegal's structural adjustuent program and
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit under preparation. The latter
concentrates on creating an agricultural policy environment conducive to growth
and specifically calls for the strengthening of agricultural research and
extension.
B. Concept and Ob1ectives
3.02        Due to the ineffectiveness of extension institutions in the past,
governmnt services such as extension vere provided by SRDRs usually in the
context of individual projects. This approach, hovever, vas not effective as it
vas costly. and only benefitted 10-20 Z of Senegal's agricultural producers.
In the studies and discussions leading up to the NPA, the Government decided to
change drastically its approach to the rural sector especially in terms of
services delivery.  The decision vas taken to strengthen the long neglected
Utraditional services*, i.e., the DA and the DE. In this context, it vas further
decided that esxtensi.=n activities are gradually to become their responsibility,
vith the role of projecte being to support rather tban to replace institutions.
Technical consultations betveen IDA and Government led in July 1987 to a clearer
understanding as to the focus, content and method of implementing an agricultural
services project. Among the design principles agreed upon by the Goveroment and
IDA vere that (i) upgrading the skills of staff at all levels should have high
priority, and (ii) foreign technical assistance in general, and resident
expatriates in particular should be minimi:ed. Furthermore, it vas agreed that
the measures proposed under the project vould al: at improving the operational
efficiency of the concerned extension agencies through reorganization and better
utilization of available resour es.  No new field staff (vith the possible
exception of viame extension vorkers) vould be recruited. Goverament requested
a firet PPF in September 1987 to finance pilot extension activities (PAGRI) and
a second PPF in September 1909 to finance the transition from PAGRI to the
National Extension Program (PNVA).
3.03        The project constitutes the firet tranche of a long-ternm national
program aimed at strengthening agricultural services.  The specific objectives



- 14 -
of the firet four-year project are to increase faoers' and pastoralists incomes
and to luprove the lot of rural vomen.  te project also seeke to harmonize
gradually the approach to extension in the country, reshape extension into a
polyvalent service addressing farmers *nd pastoralistI main activities, improve
the links betveen extension and research, and *trengthen producer organizations.
Institution-building vould, therefore, be dominant in the project and the
investuents and operating conts are the min4mi de _d necessary to make the best
use of existing personnel.
C. Suzmary Description
3.04        Components. The project vould improve agrieultural support services
to farmers snd herders over an initial four-yesr period. The principal component
of the project is the improvement of crop and livestock extension services, based
on lessons learned during pilot operations undertaken for two years.  Key
ingredients of this component ares clearly defined vork *chedules, systematic
in-service training of staff at all levels, formal researchlextension linkages,
and careful implementation and effectiveness monitoring.  The project has two
secondary componentss   (1) strengthening of producer organizations through
training of their leaders and functional literacy training and (ii) strengthening
the analytical capacity of MDR through training snd short-term consultancies in
policy formulation, project preparation and appraisal, and performance
monitoring.
3.05        Items to be Financed. The project vould financet (a) the purchase
of vehicles, field and office equipment for the participating agencies in the
project, snd a sall civil vorks rehabilitation proranm; (b) incremental
operating coets for the agencies involved; (c) the cost of the on-farm research
program; Cd) training and functional literacy programs; (e) short-term technical
assistance; (f) the recruitment of a limited number of senior Senegalese staff
for the Extension Management Unit, (<) the coste associated vith capacity
building in I4DR, and (h) mtudy tours for extension and research staff as vell
as farmers insids the country and to similar project. in neighboring countries.
3.06        Geopraphic Coverape.  The project area includes the coastal belt,
Casamance, Senegal river, sylvo-pastoral zone, snd part of the groundnut basin.
The project ares covers zones uhere in the paut few extension efforts have been
undertaken. The geographic coverage of the proposed project by executing agency
and year is shown in Annex 3, Table 1 snd the total participating staff by agency
in Annex 3, Tables 2 snd 3. After two years of project execution, a mid-term
review vould be held to review in depth project progress by each executing agency
and to decide on the pace of further geographic expansion of the project.   The
project as envisaged vould expand each year by adding a few areas (see mape).
It is thus anticipated that by the end of the firet phase mome 50 percent of the
country'& geographical area sad SomGà 60 percent of the farming population would
benefit from the extension approach developed during the pilot operation.



- 15 -
D. Detailed Peatures
1. Improvasunt of Atricultural and Livestock Extension Services
3.07        Staffins. The project vill make effective use of existing structures
and personnel.  In the case of DA und DE, field extension vorkers and field
supervisors vould b. selected from sxisting staff in *éch Provincial Inspection.
Sunce D& and DE have 470 and 545 field staff respectively, there vould be no
incre_ental field staff.   If nued be.  staff transfer between Provincial
Inspections vould be carried out. Subject Natter Specialista vould be selected
f rom the agroomi sta and veterinarians located ln the DA and DE in Dakar. In the
selection of all project staff appropriate screeming procedures vould b. used
and staff selected vould receive the necessary coqlenatary training. The
techuical qualification of TS1 vould be gradually Iaproved during the project
period through intensive training. In the case of SAED all its field extension
vorkers (89) vould participate ln the project. The field supervisors vould be
the Directors of the Perimeters, and the TS1 would be seleted fro. the Training
Department snd the heads of the Rural Developseut Division in each Delegation.
In the case of SODEVA, its extension staff in the Thiès Region vas already
selected under the pilot phase und vould continue as before. The Provincial
Delegate of SODEVA vould have overall responsibility for extension in hls ares
and vould be supported by SODEVA's Technical Department in Dakar.  The table
below prements by agency the staff that vill be participating in the project
<Project Years 1 and 4)s
Number of Extension Staff in the Prolect
DA     DE        SAED     SODEVA
Year 1 (1990191)
Field extenslon vorkers (CA)    97      35         74        32
Pield supervisors                il      3          8         3
Subject Natter Specialists (TS)  7       4          4         -
Regional Managers                 6      2          4         1
Year 4 (1993/94)
Field  Extension Workers        324     92         89        32
Field Supervisors                32      9         10         3
Subject Natter Specialists       14      7          4         -
Regional Managers                 7      4          4         1



- 16 -
3.08        Polyvalence. To rationalise the use of fleld level extension agents
and to avoid farmers having to deal vith extension agents frou different
agencies, governuent bas accepted the principle of a polyvalent extension worker.
Therefore, in the areas where crop production is dominant, DA field staff vill
provide extension advice on cropa as vell as livestock, vhereas in the sylvo-
pastoral zone DE staff vill take the lead. Subject matter upecialists (TS) of
DA vill support the field level staff of DE and vice versa. Eceptions to this
rule vill only be made in areas vith a high degree of production specialization
such as in the surroundings of Dakar vhere fleld extension agents of DA and DE
vould vork vith their respective clients.
3.09        Trainins and Visit Principles. I/  The basic principles of the
extension system Ccrops and livestock) that vould be closely adhered to vould
includes (i) establishing and adopting a tlme-bound and supervised vork program;
(ii) providing regular and continuous training to staff at all levels; and (iii)
strengthening the links between extension and research. Field extension vorkers
(CA) vould discuss a series of seasonally *ppropriate technical messages with
the farmers.  This vould be achieved by assigning each CA a geographic area
containing 500-800 farms (less in the case of livestock). These zones vould be
subdivided into eight sectors vhich are each visited systematically for one day
every tvo veeks (one day a month in the case of livestock) during the cropping
season. The CAs' remaining time vould be devoted to training and debriefing.
The planning and supervision of the CAs' activities vould be the responsibility
of extension supervisors who vould each oversee eight to twelve CAs. Subject
Matter Specialistu (TS) would provide technical backstopping of CAs and organize
fortnightly sessions to train field extension staff in the technical
recomuendations to be proposed to farmers during the folloving two-week (four-
week) period. These technlcal recoammendations vould not be limited to crop and
livestock production but vould also cover village resource management in general.
In addition, depending on the areas and the agencies involved, CAs vould also
train farmers in such topico as maintenance of irrigation pumps, agricultural
equipment, pomt-harvest technologies, and marketing strategies for fruit,
vegetablee and livestock, among others.
3.10        Technoloay.  There is currently an adequate body of low-risk, low-
cost, proven technologies ready for transfer to farmers per region and major
commodity which are detailed in Annex 1.  These technologies concentrate on
improved agricultural and animal husbandry practices but also cover vider aspects
of sol fertility improvements, soil erosion control, crop diversification for
the off season, integration of agriculture and livestock, agroforestry, and
appropriate agricultural equipment (hand tools, animal dravn equipment).  In
addition, ISR has developed promising nev varieties, especially of short-cycle
rice for the Casamnce, and of vegetables. There are also many research results
to be tested under farmer conditions. The above combination of readily avallable
results and of recommendations that remain to be tested vould provide extension
vith sufficient high impact technical messages to be proposed to farmers for the
next three to four years. From results obtained from the farm trials, the TS
1 The main principles of the Training and Visit System are described in
detail in s Training and Visit Extension, the World Bank, 1984.



- 17 -
vould put together recomeendationr for faruer groupe vithin their regions.
Feedback information vould cam fram farmera' regular contacts vith extension,
TS'a diagnouls  f roam both field visite nd during training sesslons vith CA., and
from researchers' regular visite to farmers' fields/demonstration plots.
3.11        Adoption. Adoption of the tecbnologies roferred to in Annez 1 ,ill
be facilitated by tvo key factorss (a) the recurrence of years of drought has
heightened avarenos auaong farmers of the need for botter soil nd vater
management, erosion control, etc. in order to secure production; nd (b) the
increase An population makes it feasible to apply more labor intensive
technologies. Furthermore, farmers in the project are- in the past received
little or no extension advice and, therefore, mo»t techaical recoendations viii
be new to them. FAnally, experience under the pilot phase nd An other countries
has shown that the approach using small test plots to induce farmers to
experiment vith nev technology is highly auccessful for large-scale adoption.
3.12        Special Features vhere Live.tock is Dominant. A specigl effort vould
be made to strengthen herder organizations vith a particular focus on the
promotion of vomen's activities. Associations of livestock producers vould be
formed initially for the provision of veterinary drugs and simple veterinary care
for the cattle and smalltock of their members, due to the high priority that
producers give to these services. A selected individual contact member in each
group vould be trained in simple veterinary care and management of stocks.
Poultry and dairy producer groups would be mainly organized around input supply
and marketing. Group formation vould be based on grass-root interest and,
therefore, on traditional social and pover structures wherever such structures
are still strong. To achieve this bottom-up approach, the formation and initial
training of these associations vould be set ln motion by a multidisciplinary team
of the DE comprisAng, besides the techbical disciplines, a sociologist and a
representative of the traditionel leadership.
3.13        Start-up in Nev Areas.   Implementation of the project in the
respective areas vould be preceded by preparatory periode of up to a year each
prior to the areas becoming operational. During those periodss (a) surveys would
be carried out to collect basic data and Information on the rural population,
infrastructure, farmers' activities, and support services to agriculture; (b)
the extension personnel vould go through an orientation course to get acquainted
vith the nev extension approach and vould be trained to participate in the above
surveys; (c) farmers/herders and the local authorities vould be thoroughly
informed of the new approach and their full participation vould be sought; (d)
extension agents vould be assigned and/or reallocated to the areas as the latter
vould be integrated into the project; (e) the extension agents vould drav a map
of their respective work areas and prepare corresponding work programs; (f) the
necessary equipment would be ordered; (g) an initial diagnosis of farmers'
problems and constraints vould be carriet out vith research; and (h) the regular
training of staff vould be based on the techaical messages to be transferred to
farmers. An indicative ratio of two extension agents (CAs) per Rural Community
vould be adopted as a first step. This ratio is an average and would be modified
over tims to account for population densities, settlement patterns, types of
agricultural activities and coamuaications facilities. There are currently some
336 Rural Comaunities throughout the country and it is anticipated that the



- 18 -
project would cover betwesn 200 to 250 by 1993.
3.14        la-Service Training. Existing infrastructure la adequate to carry
out training in each participating agency and no new buildings are foreseen. As
part of the rehabilitation of the buildings of the Provincial Inspections, ont
training rooa vould be refurbished in each participating Inspection. and the
project vould finance the nsccssary teaching equipment and materials.   In
addition, the project vould also financet (a) three-day familiarization sessions
for ail extension agents, (b) retraining of extension agents and supervisors
(six days per year), and TS (21 days per year)t <c) bi-»onthly training for
extension agents and their supervisors in the agricultural zones, and monthly
training for extension agents and oupervisors in the sylvo-pastoral zones; (d)
special training for TS (12 days per year); (e) visite by farmer representatives
to research stations and on-farm-trial sites in Senegal and in neighboring
countries; and (f) seminars and study sessions, plus visits for senior staff to
similar projects in other African countries. Trainers have been selected in each
participating agency and training plans have been approved by the Association.
3.15        Strenathenina of Budgetinx snd Accounting. Ieasures vould be taken
under the project to improve the management and accountability of extension
agenciess
(a)   the  Extension  Management  Unit  vould  be  strengthened  by  the
recruitment of a senior accountant responsible for keeping
consolidated project-related accouats and financial documents; and
(b)   an accouuting firm would be hired to review and streamline internal
project-related finascial and budgeting procedures of DA and DE and
train their staff; annual audits of all project-related accounts
vould be conducted by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Association.
3.16        Technical Assistance.   Short-term technical assistance would be
provided in certain key areas:
(a)   the design and establishment of the proposed monitoring system vithin
DA snd DE snd their Provincial Inspections (6 staff-months);
lb)   analysis of the responsiveness of extension services to the specific,
needs of vomen farmers and traditional herders (12 staff-months);
(c)   communication techniques to improve the teaching skills of extension
agents (6 staff-months);
(d)   the design of a mass media strategy in support of the proposed
project (4 staff-months);
(e)   the reviev of the design of the field surveys that precede the
incorporation of new areas into the project (8 staff-months).
It is estimated that most of the technical assistance requirements vould be met



- 19 -
from Senegalese sources with adequate qualifications and experience.
3.17        Civil Vorks  Transport and EGuiDment
(a)   Direction de l'Aariculture (DA).  To reduce the coot of managing a
large fleet of project vehicles, CAs and supervisors vould be
provided vith »otorcycles (50 cc,) and vould receive monthly
allovances for the operation nd maintenance of these vehicles, based
on their work program.   The project vould finance one four-wheel
drive, eight pick-up. (one per Provincial Inspection), six cars for
senior and technical staff (TS), and 391 »torcycles for supervisorr
and field extension agents. The project would finance the renovation
of the buildings of Provincial Inspections and provide them vith
office equipment. Training facilities would be included in existing
space at *ach Inspection and equipped vith visual aid materials and
equipment.
(b)   Direction de l'Elevage (DE). To reduce the cout of managing a large
fleet of project vehicles, CAs nd supervisors vould be provided with
motorcycles (50 cc,) and vould receive monthly allovances for the
operation and maintenance of these vehicles, based on their work
programs. The project vould finance oae four-wheel drive, five pick-
ups (one per Inspection), one car for senior and technical staff
sTS), and 101 motorcycles for supervisors and field extension agents.
The project would finance the renovation of buildings at four
Inspections and 10 veterinary posts. Training facilities would be
included in the existing apace at each Inspection and equipped vith
visual aid materials and equipment.
3.18        On-farm Research Trials. Under the ISRA Second Agricultural Research
Project, most of the financing requirements for research have been covered,
except for the on-farm research program.  To be  demand  driven, this program
vill be financed by the proposed project through a negotiated annual contract
with ISRA.  NDR vill second a senior researcher with experience in on-farm
research to the Extension Management Unit to coordinate this program together
with hi. counterpart in each extension agency and ISRA's Farming Systems
Department.
3.19        Monitorin. The project vould establish an extension effectiveness
monitoring service. This service vould comprise a small central unit vithin the
Extension Management Unit in Dakar, a unit vithin DA and DE each, and several
provincial units attached to a Provincial Inspection (St-Louis, Fatick and Louga
or to an SRDR (SAZD. SODEVA). The project would finance the necessary additional
staff (one agricultural economist in the Extension Management Unit) and cover
the incremental investment and operating cotts for the units in DA, DE and the
provincial units. To save on both investment and operating costs, the monitoring
service would drav on DA's and DE's statisticians and computer technicians. It
would call upon a local sociologist for short term assignments and on university
students as part-time staff during the holiday season. The costs of vehicles,
computer equipment and training and the extra costs for the project's mid-term



- 20 -
evaluation (end of year 2) and preparation of the coqletion report (end of
year 4) vill be covered. Finally, funds vould be made available for short-term
technical assistance to refine, teach and evaluate monitoring methoda.
2. Strenathenins of Producer Or8anizations
3.20        Traininh of Parm Leaders.  The project vould finance ninety three-
day-training courses of farm leaders of producer organizations, the cooperative
movement, livestock federations and FONGS (Fédération des Organisations Non-
Gouvernementales du Sénégal) end its nine regional level organizations (2,700
staff/days). These leaders vould be selected by the members of their respective
organisations. The proposed seminars vould explain in greater detail the main
principles of the nev extension approach. The objectives vould be to give farm
leaders a stake in the project and to enable them, by knoving how the proposed
system is to vork, to exert pressure on the extension agents at all levels to
fulfill the role assigned to them. To guarantee a maximum of transparency, a
brochure vill be produced for farm leaders and the general public explaining the
project and the financial means involved. These farm-leaders vould be espected
to discuss what they learned vith their fellov farmers. In addition, at least
three one-day meetings vould be held each season between the provincial staff
responsible for extension and their staff and their farm leaders to discuss all
extension related activities, eepecially vork prograuming and techuical messages.
A total of 2,500 staff-days is foreseen. The project vould alseo cover the cost
for trainers of FONGS and other producer organiza:ions to participate ln training
sessions for extension staff where farmer reactions to extension messages vill
be discussed and analyzed (500 staff-days). The use of radio in local languages
te promete the project vould be stepped up. Finally, producer organizations vill
train the leaders of some 400 farmer groups in the basic skills of group action.
Ten-day training modules have been developed for this purpose.
3.21        Functional Literacy.  The project vould provide funding to train
extension vorkers teo serve as trainers in the functional literacy campaigu sud
for functional literacy training for about 10,000 newly literate people (1
functional literacy group per field extension agent over a three-year period).
Training modules and procedures are vell established and teaching materials in
the different local languages are available.  As designed, the functional
literacy compouent is based on the succesuful experience of SODEFITEX under the
Eastern Senegal Rural Development Project (Credit 1406-SE). Details can be found
at Annex 8.   Detailed vork plans have been elaborated betveen the Extenseonr
Management Unit and DA, DE, SARD, SODEVA and the Adult Literacy Department of
the Ministry of Education snd approved by the Association.  During the off-
season, CAs of DE (sylvo-pastoral zone) snd DA vould provide functional literacy
training to farmer groups (see para. 4.14). In the sylvo-pastoral zone, as part
of the functional literacy program, CAs vould train herders selected by their
villages to become para-veterinarians. i.e. able to provide simple veterinary
care, administer drugs and manage stocks. The use of CAs as functional literacy
trainers of producers has several objectives: (i) to allow a better use of their
time year round, (ii) to improve their verbal communication skills in one of the
local languages, (iii) to allow them to establish closer contacts vith the
villagers and herders, (iv) to facilitate the transfer of agricultural
technology, and ultimately (v) to make them better extension agents by



- 21 -
emphauiting their teaching role.
2. Strenathenina the Analytical CapacitY of the Ministry of Rural Develovment
3.22        To improve the liaited policy-uaking,  investment-screening and
perfor.ance-uonitoring capacity of the MDR, the project vill support a nev
agricultural policy unit in MDR, which viii have three main taukos
(a) the formulation of rural develop_ nt policies in pricing of outputs
and Inputs (including capital), respective functions of public and
private actors and subsectoral priorities for public investment;
(b) appraisal and consistency checking of investuent proposals prepared
in the technical departments;
(c) monitoring of performance of public agencies and projectu responsible
for implementation of rural developent.
The Project vill finance the unit's main operating costs for a period of four
years. This financing vill covert  ti) a support contract between the unit and
an external institutionluniversity for the provision of short-term consultancy
services on demand; (ii) staff training; (iii) equipment (vehicles, computers,
software and other office facilities); (iv) equipment maintenance; (v) travel
allowances; and (vi) the salary of a director on a contractual basis for the
firet three years.  The unit vill report directly to the Minister of Rural
Development and its professional staff vill be in the top civil service category
Ohierarchy A. The qualifications and experience of the director vill be of a
level satisfactory to the Association. Before the end of April 1990, MDR vill
prepare a draft work plan for the unit, and vill make proposals for engaging an
external institution or university that vill provide professional support to the
unit. More details of this component are in Annex 7.
B. Pro1ect Cost and Financins
3.23        Proiect Cost. The total base project cost has been estimated at CFAF
5.4 billion (US$16.7 million). Base coît estimates reflect May 1989 prices.
Costu exclude direct taxes and import duties since Goveroment has indicated that
these, although not vaived, vould not be disbursed by the project but paid
directly by Government. Physical contingencies amounting to US$0.8 million are
estimated to be 10 of mo»t capital costs, mad their total amouats to 5S of base
cost. Price contingencies amouating to US$2.7 million, representing 16S of base
coet and 14S of total cost, are based on forecasts of international Inflation
for foreigu supplied goods, on estimated annual inflation in Senegal for local
costs, and on a four year project implementation period. The Inflation forecasts
are as follovws
Years                          Foreign Cost               Local cost
1989-90                           7.2 2                      5.0 S
1991-94                           4.4 Z                      5.0 t
M



- 22 -
The breakdovn of the total project coat of US$20.2 mllion lu au folloos:
Toa I
-(CaF utl i.IO)--                      For   bu.
Local Foerml    Totl Lucl For el  Tot l Exchange Cot
Extcenson
- Agricultur l Dlrt.uml       1,010.9 ltOt.O 2 U02.ô  8.S  4.0    7.9   su     47
- Llv.tock D.purt mt            238.9  787.4  015.8  0.7  1.2    1.9  C2       il
Str ngeh lng et Producer Orgenizationu
-TroInTng of F er Ldr            00.0    -    90.0  0.8   -      0.8    -       2
- Funclional Llteraey Tralnnog  460.0    -   4C0.0  1.4   -      1.4    -       S
Strungthuntng Analyltlol
Cupacity of D                  102.0  300.2  451.0  0.8  1.1   1.4   70        9
Monitoring end stMloo            70.9   07.8  15U.2  0.2  0.8   0.t   6C        4
Progrn Adbntletratlon           U42.7  264.8  *97..  1.1  0.9    1.4  48       il
R.flnonclng ot PPF                -   480.0  480.0   -   1.5   1.t  100         9
Oa» cou"                      2,850.2 8,072.8 1,422.5  7.8  9.5   1.7   57    100
Phyical Conttngunct-          108.7  141.2  244.9  0.8  0.4   0.t   U         6
Prtc Conttnslnctlo             404.0  470.2  910.9  1.2  1.5   2.7   64    1l
Total Projoct Coute           2,5.$ 8,089.7 6,58.2 2 .0 11.4  20.2   50    121
_           _B _           M   _  _ 
3.24         Financing. Project costs vould be financed by a US$17.1 million
equivalent  IDA Credit  on  standard  terms  and  the balance  (US$3.1 million
equivalent) by Government.  The IDA credit vould finance 85Z of total project
costs net of taxes (US$20.2 million). The credit vould finance the project's
incremental investments and consultants' services, and part of incremental
operating costs on a declining basic over the project implementation period
(para. 3.31). Project finaunclng vould be as followsv
Financina Plan
CPAF billion         US Smillion       (Z)
Government                     1.0                   3.1          15
IDA                            5.6                  17.1          85
6.6                 20.2         100



- 23 -
F. Procurement
3.25        All goodm and services financed under the project vould be procured
in accordance vith Bank guidelines. Procurement vould be handled by the Extension
Managment Unit (para. 4.02). Procedures are *uoriled hereafters
Procurement Method
TOTAL
Project Element                        ICa    LCI    OTEfK      N.A    COST
------------(USS million)-
Civil Vorks                             -     0.4       -        -      0.4
-    (0.4)     -         -     (0.4)
Equipment and Furniture                 -     1.0       -        -      1.0
-    <1.0)     -         -     (1.0)
Vehicles                               1.3     -      0.4        -      1.7
(1.3)    _    ~(0.4)   _     (1.7)
Training                                -3.                      -      3.5
-      -     <3.5)       -     (3.5)
On-farm Research                        -      -      2.2        -      2.2
3      -     <2.2)       -     (2.2)
Consultants' Services and Studies       -      -      1.1        -      1.1
-      _      . i.l)     -     (1.1)
Salaries                                -      -       -         0.9    0.9
=,     _       _        (0.9)  (0.9)
Operating Coste /                       -      -       -         7.9    7.9
-      -       -        (4.8)  (4.8)
Refinanwing of the PPF                  -      -        -        1.5    1.5
-      -       -        <1.5)  (1.5)
Total                                  1.3    1.4     7.2       10.3   20.2
(1.3)  (1.4)   (7.2)      (7.2) (17.1)
Note: Figures  in parentheses  are  the  respective  amounts  financed by the
Association.
ai Includes operating and maintenance conts of vehicles and equipment and travel
allovances of extension field staff.
3.26        The total value of goode to be procured through ICB would be about
US$1.3 million (6Z of total project coste): through LCB, US$1.4 million (72);
other methode, US$7.2 (362). Training for an estimated value of US$3.5 million
(17Z of total project costs) vill be mostly in-service training of extension
personnel (US$1.8 million), functional literacy training for producers (1.4
million) and training of farm leaders (US$0.3 million) and would be primarily
for operating coste of administering training programs. About US$7.9 million
or 392 of total project coste concern extension agencies' operating coste (mostly



- 24 -
vehicle operating nd maintenance conts, and travel allovances for field staff>,
nd US$0.9 million for incremental salaries, for wbich procuremnt methodo are
not applicable.
3.27        Civil Works for approximately US$0.4 million equivalent vould be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordmnce
vith procedures acceptable to IDA vhich vould includes advertising in loca'
papers, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, and avard to the
lovent evaluated bidder; foreign bidders vould not be precluded from
participating. The dispersion over the country of civil vorks funded under the
project, the umall aize of these contracts and the presence of vell-equipped and
campetent local contractors make it unlikely that the vorks vould attract foreign
contractors not already established in Senegal.
3.28        Goodo. Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more vould be procured
under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Vehicles, material end
equipment to be financed vould be grouped to the extent possible in packages of
at least US$100,000 equivalent. Packages of less than US$l00,000, up to an
aggregate'of US$1.0 million, vould be avrded on the basis of competitive bldding
advertised locally in accordance vith procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Costracts for goods estimated to cout leus thon US$30,000 may be procured on the
basis of price quotations f rom at least three suppliera. The total value of
items to be procured in this way should not esceed US$300,000 vithout prior IDA
agreement.
3 29        Consultants.  Consultants  vith  qualifications  and  experience
acceptable to IDA vould be recruited in accordance vith IDA guidelines.
3.30        Contract Reviev. All bidding packages for goode estimated to cost
more than US $ 100,000 equivalent vould require the Bank's prior approval, as
vould the final avard of the related contracta. The other contracta would be
subject to random post-reviev by the Bank after contract avard. Assurances vere
obtained at negotiations that the above procurement and reviev procedures would
be followed.



_ 25 -
G. Disbursements
3.31        The IDA credit vould be disbursed over four yearu as follows:
Dibursemnts
Amouats                     Percent of
Category                      USS million                  exOenditures
Civil Works                     0.4                        lG02
Equipjmnt                       0.8                        lOOS
Vehicles                        1.6                        1002
Training                        3.2                        1002
On-fara Research Trials         2.0                        1002
Salaries                       O08                         1002
Operating Costa                 4.3                         75Z up to an
aggregate
amount of
US$ 3.3
million end
50Z thereafter.
Consultants' Services           0.9                        lOOS
Refunding of PPF Adva-nce       1.5                        Amount due
Unallocated                     1.6
Total                          17.1
3.32        Disbursement of the IDA Credit will be fully documented except for
contracts valued at les, than US$20,000 equivalent which vill be against
Statements of Expenditure uhich will be certified by the Director of the
Extension Management Unit and its Chief Accouatant. Relevant documentation would
be retained by the Extension Management Unit and made available for inspection
by IDA during supervision missions.
3.33        In order to expedite disbursements and ensure that funde for the
project are available when needed, the Government vould open a special accouat
(revolving fund) in a commercial bank in the name of the project. Imadiat.ly
after credit effectiveness, IDA vould make an initial deposit of US$1.1 million
into the special account  representing about three monthe  expenditures. The
accouat would be used to finance the local and foreign colts of eligible
expenditures financed by IDA. Ifl vould replenish t-h. fund upon receipt of
satisfactory proof of incurred expenditure and evidence that such expenditures
vere eligible for financing out of the revolving fund. Monthly bank statements
of the special accouat vould accompany replenisbment requests.
3.34        Disbursements  have  been  estimated  using  a  four-year  project
implementation period instead of the standard eight-year disbursement profile
for agrLcultural projects in Senegal.   Paster disbursements are anticipated
because (1) other Bank-financed agricultural extension projects have not



- 26 -
experienced important iupl..sntation and disbursemnt delays; (ii) most
lnvemtment vill take place in the firet two years of project iuplementation; and
(iii) about SOZ of the credit vould be diubursed against selected items of the
concerned institutions' annual operating budgets and, therefore, vould not be
uubject to implementation delays.
3.35        Goverrnmnt vould deposit its couaterpart contribution into a separate
project account that it ,ould open and maintain for financing its share of
project operating conts. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that this
project accouat vould be replenished regularly a*d lin a timsly manner.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND INPLEKIITATION
A. Overall Protect Orsanizatlon, Mbangement and Financial Monitoring
4.01        The proposed project vlll be under the supervision of the Ministry
of Rural Development (MDR). Its implementation vill be assured by the Extension
Management Unit and several executing agencles. To guide program activities and
keep key Ministries informed of project's progress, a consultative committee vill
be set up vith representatives of different Ministries  nd farmer organizations.
4.02        Extension Management Unit. Since extension remains the responsibility
of several executing agencies,  there is a need for overall leadership,
coordination, and financial monitoring of the project. To this effect, the
Government vill legally establish the Extension Management Unit. The unit vill
be headed-by a Director, directly reporting to the Minister of MDR. In addition
to his managerial functions, the Director vill also be responsible for extension
and training. He vill be supported by two senior techancal specialists, one in
farming systemu research and the other in monitoring and evaluation. The roles
and responsibilities of the Extension Management Unit are defined Ln Annex 2.
This small team vould be responsible for harmonizing the approach to extension
at the national level, while taking into accouat regional disparities. Each
specialist vould develop the methodology to be used by his couaterparta vithin
the executing agencies. For finnci al management and accounting (including
auditing, reporting and project related procuremeat) a Central Accouating and
Procurement Unit (CAPU), backstopped by periodic short-term expert missions,
vill be created vithin the Extension Management Unit. CAPU vill provide the
necessary specialized support to the Program Director under the terms of
reference in Annex 2.  Establishment of CAPU vith a project accounting system
and procedures mad recruitmant of a Chief Accountant satisfactory to IDA vould
be a condition of effectiveness.
4.03       Esecutina agencies of the project ares DA, SAED, SODEVA, and ISRA,
all under the control of NDRs and DE of MRA. Several other ministerial
departments (soil conservation nd reforestation and vater and forestry
departm.nts> vill collaborate li lts esecution.  The Extension Management Unit
has developed draft Protocoles d'Accord vith th. executing agencies, spelling
out their respective obligations nd submitted them to the Association for
reviev. Finalization of said Protocoles d'Accord, satisfactory to IDA, vould be
a condition of effectiveness.



- 27 -
4.04        A  Consultative Comittue vill be  set up  to  reviews  (j> the
conmolid ted anuai vork prograsuad budget of the project; and (<i) the six-
monthly progreus reports. Representatives of thil couittee vill be from MDR
<chairman), MPC, MRA, MPN, Ministry of Social Developuent, Ministry of Economy
and Finance and producer organizations. A management teos consisting of the
Extension Management Unit Director (chairuan), the persons in charge of extension
in each executing agency and a porion to be designated by ISRA vill also be
formed and vill meet once a -onth to exchange vievs on aIl operational aspects
related to the project.
4.05        The director of DA and DE and the headi of participating SRDRs und
ISRA vould be responsible for project implementation vithin their respective
areas of jurisdiction. Extension units have been created vithin each of these
agencies and extension personnel has been designated at all levels.
4.06        In each region, the basic field management unit vould be headed
either by the Provincial Rural Development Manager, or by the Section Chief of
the local SRDR. The Rural Development Manager or the Section Chief vould be in
charge hierarchically of the supervisors and the CAs, and depending on the
region, be supported by one to three Subject Natter Specislists (TS). The number
of TSs vould be limited to the strict minimum. They vould whenever possible cover
more than one Provincial Inspection. The TSà vould train the CAs and the
supervisors and be closely associated with the adaptive research program. Small
monitoring units including one statistician and four to six surveyors vould be
stationed at selected Inspections and SRDI to closely monitor the project, and
provide regional management vith basic data for proper decision-making.
B. Implementation and Effectivenesa Monitorins 2/
4.07        Ualike the financial monitoring and statistics collecting that have
conventionally been undertaken by the SRDRS, DA and DE, the project vill require
careful, selective monitoring of implementation and effectiveness indicators.
A good start vas made in the entities that participated lu the firet year's
program la 1988. Folloving a subregional vorkshop on monitoring of extension
programo, that vas convened by the Bank in Senegal in February 1989, monitoring
of the second year's program has beeu improved, vith a particular emphasis on
measurement of adoption. Another subregional vorkshop on mounitoring of extension
programs vas convened in Niger ln February 1990, and further improvements vill
be made la the third year's program. An active subregional network of people
responsible for monitoring of extension has nov been created, and further
subregional vorkshops vill alo be convened lu early 1991 and 1992. Officers
in charge of mowntoring in the project's executing entities have attended these
vorkshope and vll continue to do so. In addition, a monitoring specialist vill
be appointed to the Extension Management Unit in order to obtain a better sharing
of experiences among the varlous Senegalese entities, to detect and publicize
2 The proposed approach to mouitorig and evaluation is described in detail
lns Monitoring and Evaluation in Extension Agencies, World Bank technical paper,
ISSU 0253-7494; n 79.



- 28 -
bout practices, to design end undertake staff training in the entities, and to
produce a consolidated  nnual report on iîplentation ond effectiveness of the
extension progrus.   The main indicators that vould be used to asseis  the
effectiveness end efficiency of the extension effort vould bot
(a)   extension  activities:    the  percentage  of  farmers  reached  by
extension, average attendance at meetings vith extension agent,
number of test plots, and number of on-farm trials;
(b)   tratningt  type of training, periodicity and institution involved
by category of extension personnel;
(c)   links vith research: off-the-sihlf results f rom research translated
into technical recomendations, problems included in adaptive
research program of trials, and main topics of trials; and
(d)   resultes for major technical messages, evidence of adoption, repeat
adoption, rejection and reason; and evidence of Impact on yield,
production or productivity and factors that explain results.
C. Linka8es betveen Extension and Research
4.08        Research-Extension links vould be strengthened through improved
coordination between ISRA and the agencies responsible for extension In the
planning and management of adaptive research programs; and also by the joint
implementation and ex-post evaluation of these programs by research and extension
staff. Strengthening of the coordination betwedn research and extensioL vould
be promoted through (a) the setting-up of joint extensionlresearch technical
committees at the national *ad regional level; (b) closer collaboration in the
identification, implementation and ex-post evaluation of applied and adaptive
research activities; and (c) the definition and implementation of training
programe organized by research for extension staff.
4.09        Technical Committees. 04-farm research programs (plans and results)
would be discussed and reviowod by a national Technical Conmmittee during
workshops chaired by the Director of the Extension Management Unit. ISEA vould
serve as the Secretariat. The vorkshops vould be attended by representatives
of research, extension and the development agencies. At the regional level, a
technical codittteo would ho established for each ageucy concerned with
agricultural extension nd vould meet tvice a year. Membership of this couittee
would include extension, reaearch and representatives of the farming community,
nd the coedittees vould; (a) reviev results of applied  nd adaptive research
programs; (b) reviev the adoption rates of technical recommendations in the
previous season; (c) agree on the nett year's adaptive research program to be
carried out by research; and (c) prepare and agree on the contractual
arrangements defining respective operational and financial responsibilities of
ISRA and the extension agencies. Regular field days for extension staff and for
farmers vould be held at the research stations and substations. The closer
inclusion of extension staff and farmers in the implementation of the research
program vould assist vith its reorientation to priority field problemu.



- 29 -
4.10        ISlIA aco wdity antd  ysteme team  would collaborate vith the
reosearch and development units and TS of the extension agSncieo to jointly carry
out the adaptive rsesarch program proposed under the project. On-farm trials
vould be deosigned to test and, if necessary, adapt technical reco.mendations
derived f rom applied research for different far situations% (a) various cropping
sequences; (b) levai of farmer' ukilles and <c> frmer'o resources and risk
situation. Pn  trials would be simple. Shey vould be planned by research and
extension togethers executed by farers on their fields under the supervision
of the extension agencios' specialised staff vith tecbnical support from regional
research staff; they vould iaitially be *alymed by research and thon jointly
*valuated by reosearch and exteneion. The extension agencies vould bear the cout
of purchased inputs for the trials and the farmers would undertake the vork
involved.
4.11        Oerational and Financial Responsibility. The Extension Management
Unit on behalf of the extension agencies vould develop medium-term uprogram
contractse vith ISRA for the on-f érm research trials program under the project.
These contracte vould specify, lix broad terme (a) the agreed-upon themes for farm
trials; (b) the respective operational nd financial responsibilities of the two
partieus and (c) the progre's reviev and planning arrangements. Before each
agricultural season, the varlous Techaical Comuittees vould reviev the progress
achieved, agr e on the detalled annual program for the forthcoming season and
on the means and flnancial resources necessary to carry out the proposed
programs. Annual program and budgets, along with respective responsibilities,
vould be detalled in an annual contract betveen the two parties. These contracts
vould be submitted to the Director of the Extension Management Unit for approval
each year before March 31. The operating costs for the implementation of the
project's agreed annual on-farm adaptive research trials prograsm (both for ISRA
and extension agencies) vould be entirely financed (through a negotiated annual
contract) from the project's annual operating budget.
4.12        During negotiations assurances vere received from the Borrower that
(a) the national and regional research technical comittees discussed above vould
be set-up by April 30, 1990; and (b) the arrangements described above for the
planning, implemsntation nd financing of the project's on-farm research trials
component vould be reflected in the Protocole d'Accord between ISRA antd DR.
D. Strengthening of Producer Organizations.
4.13        Trainlin of Farm Leaders.  The Extension Management Unit vill pags
a contract vith each concerned producer organization for the training of farm
leaders.
4.14        Functional Literacy. The training of the CAs as functional literacy
trainers vould be the responsibility of those extension agencles vith experience
in functional literacy training. The training of farmers and herders vould be
the responsibility of the Ces in SAMD, SODEVA, DA and DE. Producers to be trained
vould be meubers of producer organizations and proposed by their members. The
extension agencles vould be back-stopped by staff of the Functional Literacy
Department of the Ministry of Education. The latter vould also carry out the
evaluation of the learning progress of participants under a subcontract with the



- 30 -
Extension Hanagement Unit.
E.    Strenitheninm the Analytical Caeacit? of th. Ministry of Rural Develovment.
4.15        This component vould b. executed by the nov agricultural policy unit
in  DR. This unit vould establish it. onn detailed vork progre. The vork of
the Policy Formulation Section vould be both derived from, as vell as in
anticipation of, the sectoral adjustuent agenda.  The vork of the Project
Preparation and Appraisal Section vould be larg.ly deuand-driven, Ln response
to demandu fro  the Ministry of Planning and fro  the technical departments of
MDR itself. The vork of the Performance MIoitoring Section vould be determined
in the light of the Ministry's ona folt needs, to lead the oeriodic revieva of
the establishod practice of performnce coatracts for v  principal rural
developsent agencies, and to monitor physical and financial performance of
projects; for the first tvo years, the Section vould set a threshold in terme
of project cost belov viich Lt vould not endeavor to monitor. The unit vould
keep its oun accouats, which vould be consolidated by CAPU.
F.    Financial Management. Accouats, Audits and Reportinp
4.16        Accouants.  Overall  responsibility  for  the  project'u  financial
management vill rest vith the Extension Management Unit. This vill not only keep
costS down, but is also in lins vith the vieve of the Goverament and the Bank
concerning the need for centrali2ed information as vell as centralized
dimbursement and loan repayment operations. For expenditures (vehicles, vehicle
operating cost, salaries, training and tudios), the Extension Management Unit
Chief Accouatant vould be responsible for procurement and bookkeeping. For
expenditures related to travel allovances, training expenses, etc. incurred
directly by the extension staff of the implementing agencies,  the Chief
Accouatant vould regularly supervise the project related accountu and specîal
accouats at these agencies, ensurlng that proper accounts are kept of each
operation by an accountant, and that adequate justification for expenditures is
submitted regularly from the agencles to the Extension Management Unit. The Chief
Accountant vould prepare SOEs and disbursement requestu and consolidate annual
and quarterly accouats.
4.17        The accouating system of the project vould be established by a
consultant vith PPP financing. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that the
project vould establish and maintain separate project-related accounts in
accordance vith sound and accepted accouating principles and practices and that
each implemsnting agency vould keep separate accounts for project-related
activities.
4.18        Audit. The project-related accouats of the Extension Management Unit
and the executing agencies vould be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA nd financed by the Project. Audited financial statements and
reports, of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, vould
be submitted to MUA vithin six months of the end of each fiscal year. The
auditor's report vould include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting
system and internal controls and the project-related accouants of the various
implementing agencies. The report vould alo confirm that Statements of



- 31 -
Expenditure submitted as justification for disbursement correctly reflect
detailed records kept by the Project. Assurances on the above vere obtained at
negotiations.
4.19        Reportins.  The Management of each executing agency vould ensure
adequate overall technical and financial supervision of project vorks.
Implementing agencies vould prepare semi-annual progreus reports, annual work
program, and budgets vith details on individual progrms, training,  nd civil
vorks rehabilitation planned for the coming year. These documents vould be
consolidated by the Extension Management Unit and ,orvarded to IDA. An assurance
vas received during negotiations that model plans for rehabilitation of livestock
posts and the Provincial Inspections of DA and DE ln the project area vould be
submitted to IDA for approval by December 31, 1990.
4 20        Imvlementation Revievw.  The Director of the Extension Management
Unit vould be responsible for conducting, with IDA, and no later than May 31 of
each year, project implementation reviews toi ti) monitor progress made in
achieving project objectives, in particulars design of training programs for DA
and DE staff, preparation of vork programe and budgets, including details on
planned activities and targets, staff deployment, training plans, civil vorks
rehabilitation, and procurement planned for the year; (ii) exchange information
among staff responsible for project implementation and propose solutions to any
current problems and (iii) update project timetables and cost estimates. The
recommendations arising out of these reviews, as agreed betveen Government and
IDA, vould be implemented promptly thereafter. Because of the institution-
building nature of the project, the implementing agencies, and the Bank vould
carry out a joint mid-term review of the project no later than June 30, 1992 (end
year 2). The reviev would cover physical implementation and the extent to vhich
institutional objectives have been achieved. The findinge and recouendations
of this mid-term reviev vould be implemented promptly thereafter. The Director
of the Extension Management Unit and the Directors of DA and DE vould be
responsible for organizing this review. Vithin six monthe of the credit closing
date, the Director of the Extension Management Unit vould be responsible for
preparing a project completion report that vould summarize the project' s
performance and evaluate lessons learned based on reports prepared by each of
the implementing agencies (DA, DE, SAED, SODEVA, ISRA). Assurances on the above
vere obtained during negotiations.
G.    Eaviroumental Impact
4.21        The agro-ecological environment of Senegal is difficult and in most
regions crops, livestock and trees are subject to stress. Unreliable rainfall
distribution and the increasing frequency of droughts is adding to the
difficulties in the agricultural sector. In addition, expanding hum  and animal
populations are steadily increasing the pressures on the fragile natural
resources.
4.22        The main thrust of the work of the crop and livestock extension
services to be supported under the project vill be increasing land productivity.
This vill be realized primarily, by improved cultural practices and improved herd
management, i.e., low-cost (often zero cash cost) and low-risk measures such as



- 32 -
soil conservation, vater harvesting, contour planting, zero tilling, composting,
alley-cropping, agro-forestry and better integration of crops and livestock, as
vell as more efficient application of chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
Adoption of these measures vill both increase land productivity and arrest soil
degradation.   It is thus anticipated that the proposed project vould be
environmentally positive.
4.23        Throughout the country, but most auspiciously in the pastoral areas
in the East, liveutock numbers can be expected to increase as a consequence of
improved livestock services. The causality vill not be straightforward, mince
steers vill likely be culled for groving-out and eventual fattening or for animal
traction.   Reifere, by contrast, are unlikely to be culled in significant
numbers.   In the absence of droughts, total cattle numbers vill certainly
increase, although slowly. The particular problems associated vith sustainable
range management vill not be directly addressed through this project, vhich
concentrates on improving productivity of individually owned or managed assets,
such as arable land or livestock. Approaches to the problems of comnunally owned
or managed assets, such as rangelands, are being tested in ongoin& pilot
operations as part of the preparation of the Envlronmental Management Project.
Lessonu learned from these operations vould be applied on a vider scale during
implementation of that project. More effective livestock services vill also
increase sheep and goat populations, but the possible negative effects on the
environment are not expected to be as important as with cattle. Smallstock are
usually managed by vomen as a sedentary activity, even in the drier areas, and
tethering is becoming a common practice.
4.24        In  the  better-vatered  South,  where  chemical  fertilizers  and
pesticides are already fairly videly adopted, the extension service vill promote
more efficient use of these inputs. Demand can be expected to increase further,
from nev adopters as vell as area expansion by current users. Bank guidelines
concerning agricultural chemicals have been followed in the past - under Bank-
financed area-specific projecta - and vill continue to be followed. No other
environmental protection measures need be provided.
V. BENEPITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01        The project should greatly contribute to the vell-being of a large
number of rural families. About 602 of the rural population (360,000 families)
vould be resched by improved crops and livestock extension services, but how many
of these householde vould choose to adopt recoemended practices cannot be
estimated vith any precision.   More specifically, project benefits should
manifest themselves in four main areast
(a)   production and productivity of both the crop and livestock sectors;
reorganized and strengthened extension and livestock services should
be in farmers and herders--both men and vomen-and propose to them
effective vays to improve their standard of living;



- 33 -
(b)   autonomy and self-reliances vith the help of literacy progras.,
farmrs and herders vill be better able to manage their resources
and investments;
(c) human resourcess the project strongly emphasizes training and
continuing education programs, for farmers, horders and government
staff. The project vould greatly onhance the capabilities of some
700 staff at all levelis; and
(d)   institutional developmntt by gradually building-up the capacity of
the DA and DE to provide extension services, MDR's ability to plan
and coordinate agricultural extension at the national level vill be
greatly enhanced. This vill sllow for a more effective system of
technology generation and diffusion and vill permit better leadership
of other agricultural services, thereby creating a good opportunity
to streamline donor financial assistance.
B.   Justification
5.02        It is not possible to isolate the effects of extension and adaptive
research on output and income. Adoption of technical improvements in crop,
animal and tree husbandry, vater harvesting and soil conservation, depends on
many factors, of which field testing and effective dissemination are just a part.
Other factors include prices of outputs and inputs Cincluding labor and capital),
accessibility of markets and credit, differentiation of farm enterprises by size,
tenure and capitalization, and different asses_ments of risk and opportunities
for risk sharing.  While the causality underlying adoption is difficult to
determine, Ogood extension clearly has a catalytic role to play both by
adjusting technical messages to local, even individual circumstances, but also
by bringing farmers' and others' preoccupations to the attention of those vho
can adapt in consequence, such as researchers, bankers, tradesmen, merchants,
commodity processors as vell as national policy-makers. Despite the difficulties
with causality, a recent reviev of studies that have attempted to measure the
impact of agricultural extension programs on farmer adoption and productivity
concluded that extension in a number of countries has been a high pay-off
investment 3i
5.03        Good extension is therefore a necessary but not sufficient condition
for agricultural growth, and its effecta cannot be conclusively quantified. While
an economic rate of return could be calculated for an extension project, the
calculation vould be fraught vith theoretical and emplircal difficulties, and
reduction of the outcome to a single rate of return vould be spurious. A more
illumlnating, although still imprecise, indicator is the increase in agricultural
value added that vould be required to cover the coste of egood' extension. In
Senegal, the staff exists; the incremental cost of good extension is the mobility
and  continuous  in-service  training  of  such  staff.    This  cost  is  $2.2
3/ Baxter, Michael, Roger Slade and John Hovell, 'Aid and Agricultural
Extensions Evidence from the World Bank and other Donors', World Bank Technical
Paper Number 87, 1989.



- 34 -
mullionlyear, or about 0.2Z of agricultural value added.  Since the project
vould only cover 601 of the rural population, the project's incremental couts
are about 0.33Z of the incoe of the target population and, to break even, vould
have to increase the target population'. lncome by a simular annual increment.
This increase is eminently attainable in viev of the monitored resulta of the
first year'l caupaign (paragraph 1.26),  nd the long-tern growth rate observed
in the agricultural sector, of l1/year. On the basis of households, the project
vould reach 360,000 8-person uiite by year 4, at a coet of about
$6hhouseholdlyear. It vould suffice for 40Z of these householde to plant a nev
0.2 ha. test plot each year to cover the costs of extension (Annez 5). The
salary and benefit coste of the existing staff for whom mobility nd training
vould be provided under the project amount to $1.3million/year. If these costs
are lncluded vith the above increnutal coste, the breakeven rates vould increase
from 0.33Z to O.5Z of the incoma of the target population, or fron 40Z to 60Z
of target householde who plant a nev 0.2ha test plot each year.  Thus, even
including the salary and benefit coste of existing staff, the breakeven rates
are readily obtainable.
C.    Rieke
5.04        The risks foreseen, which are comon to similar projects supported
by IMA, includes (i) ineffective management and training of extension personnel;
(ii) low adoption rates of technical recomuendations by farmers and/or slow
build-up of applicable technology by research and (iii) the possible failure of
Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term conmnitment required to achieve
durable improvements in the effectiveness of agricultural support services. To
minimize these risks, a tvo-year pilot operation vas undertaken and the lessons
have been built into the project design.
5.05        Concerning the management of extension services, improved management
is expected as a result of the improved organization, training, monitoring and
evaluation, and technical assistance to be provided under the project. Concerning
technical advice to farmers, the pilot extension activities have shown that
appropriate technologies are available. There is room for sizeable improvements
in foodcrop and livestock production since many of the country's farmers and
herders have not yet had access to extension advice at all. The project also
focuses on the pre-extension testing of a sizeable body of existing research
results. Finally, the annual reviev of vork plans and budgets, as vell as the
mid-tern  implem»ntation review, vill provide good opportunities for program
review and long-term comditment building.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01        Assurances vere obtained during neRotiations thats
(a)   Procurement vould b. in accordance vith IDA guidelines. Government
would obtain the Bank's prior approval for all bidding packages for
goods estimated to cost more than US$l00,000 equivalent as vell as
for the final avard of the related contracts. The other contracts
vould be subject to random post-review by IDA after contract avard
(para 3.30).
(b) Qovernment vould regularly and in a timely manner deposit its



- 35 -
counterpart contribution (para. 3.35).
(c)   the national and regional research technical coemittees vould be *et-
up not later than April 30, 1990, and the arrangements described in
paras 4.07 through 4.11 for the planning, implementation and
financing of the project's on-farm research component would be
adopted (para. 4.12).
(d)   each project implesnting agency vould keep separate accounts for
project-related activities (para. 4.17), and such accouants vould be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and their
report, which vould include a separate opinion on the reliability
of SOEs submitted as justification for disbursements, will be
submitted to InA vithln six months of the close of Government's
fiscal year (para. 4.18).
(e)   model plans for rehabilitation of Provincial Inspections of DA and
DE, and for rehabilitation of livestock posts vould be submitted to
IDA for approval before December 31, 1990 (para. 4.19).
(f)  after two years of project execution, a joint mid-term reviev vould
be held to review project progress by each executing agency and to
decide on the pace of further geographic expansion of the project.
At that time, the institutional framework of the project, i.e. its
executing agencies, vould also be reviewed; the findings and
recommendations would be implemented promptly thereafter (para.
4.20);
(g) the Extension Management Unit will prepare and submait to the
Association not later thln six months after project completion a
Project Completion Report in scope and content acceptable to the
Association (para 4.20).
6.02        Conditions of effectiveness ares
(a)   the  Central Accounting  and Procurement Unit  (CAPU) has  been
established, vith an accounting system and procedures satisfactory
to the Association, and a chief accountant satisfactory to IDA has
been appointed (para. 4.02) and
<b)   Protocoles d'Accord have been signed between the Borrover and the
respective executing agencies, i.e., SAED, SODEVA, and ISRA (para.
4.03).
6.03       Vlth the above assurances and conditions the project vould be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 13.0 million (US$ 17.1 million equivalent).



SEMOAL
Agoriculturel Service. Proj.ct
Tecbnical Reco«endationo Aval lble per Rugion end for tbe Main Crope 1/
Croundnut Boasin                       Fleuve Rugion I          Cae xonue              aleye  (Morealche)
CROPS                         ar.oudnute coepeés   Mali    Miliet  Sorghum    Rtic  Tomtoeei Rice   CrouadMuta   Mata. a          V.etehbl-/Fruite
Techalcal Re«om e  atione                                                           I                |                              I
Soli preparat.oi                                                                         I   X                                     K X
Seed quolity (gpritotlia tee t                                                                            I                             I
xelection end treote_t of _m   )           X          X         X                       I  X              I                                        X
PIant population                           X                              X             I  X              I                        X    I
Soing la Llnetrane,Iantin of rle.                                                       |X                I   X                         I
Fert.illaero (date, do                                                                                                                  I
moe of applicatien)                        X                                               X        X    I                         X    I
Thiwning                                                                  X        X                                               x X
Ceedin, (manuel or emlis herbicide.)                  X                                                   I                                        X
Treetxent                                             X                                 I                 I                             I          X
Peet-hoarve toeromrvation                             X                                 |                 j                             I
Cr p *sciatleo                                        X                   X             I                 I
1eter _maammnt                                                                           1X                   X                         t
Land levellIb e s ,                                                                                                                                X
Verietie (<hort-cycle)                                X         X                       i  K                  K                         I          X
Mamaemmet of med « uuerie Xs                                                                                                            I          K
(v_.etblue . foltt  MW rice)                                                                x                 x                                    x
1l  T«hntcal reco m_ tie« that reqîlr. forther teeting by r _erch end Ut aem part
of IRUA8 aduptive r _ereh pregr  *re  a) *ix d croppîg (cerealo *ith le _neo crope)j
*arlcultural pra.ctcuc (date eof *ouig, plant ppulation la light 0f chanoi)g cellmatit coditlemo;
b) updtilee of vrletal cap fer differmat erep ; c) rspme rate te fertiltaeu  aI differet 
a*r.ee legical zoene; d) t)toa ef laboer  avi4o M*uII-ae, le groeultural equml _   (dmmd
dietek  rte tramoepgontere  rice thgre _er); e) ferage preductieo, end t) devele_pemet of i.tgrated                                                 - x
famine eytemc (agriculture, li,emteck, feretry).                                                                                                       _



-37-
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
z 
le
_t
£D 0
_
2s
e ~     Ce1
..  Pu     i le         à
85Xii                  S                                                                  -



- 38 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
SENEGAL
Agricultural Services Project
Technical Reconendations Available/to be Tested for Livestock
(formulated according to geographic regions, type of animls,
and type of herd owneruhip and management
Technical Racosmendations             Readily     To be tested/
available    further developped
Animal nutritionlfeed supply                    X
(forage production, mineral supplements.
crop by-products)
Animal health protection                        X
(vaccirations, treatment of internal
and external parasitic diseases)
Improved feed quality in dry season                             X
<fodder bank technology - a low input
system of establishing high quality
leguminous fodder reserves for the dry
season for selected categories of
livestock)
Herd management (selection of breeding          X
animase, castration,  destockage, veaning)
Range management practice                       X               X
- Animal-draun agricultural equipment                          X
for constitution of fersge reserves
- Anti-erosion measures, including              X              X
alley farming
Manure production                               X
Market price information                                        X
Organization of producer groupe to              X               X
take on simple veterinary care and to
handle Input supply and marketing
FS:iniDRSJN03/RECLIV.VX1



- 39 -
ANME 2
Page l of 2
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Extension Management Unit
Terms of Reference
a)    Present to the consultative commlttee each year for their reviev the
consolidated vork program, budget and annual report of the project based on the
submissions of the executing agencies;
b)    liaise as necessary vith Ministries and other organizations to ensure the
smooth implementation of the project;
c)    liaise vith the Senegalese authorities and wlth the lending agencies;
d)    chair the Extension Management Unit Management Tem  and coordinate and
monitor project activities.
e)    supervise and monitor the use of project fundes;
f)    prepare, supervise and monitor the *agreementse signed between parties
involved in the project;
g)    cause annual revievs of the project to be carried out to examine the
performance of the executing agencies and to identify the problems of project
implementation;
h)    organize, together vith the Management Team, a project start-up seminar
for all managers and accountants involved in the project in order to lnform them
of the objectives of the project and of the accounting, procurement and
monitoring proceduress
i)    ensure that the basic extension principles of the project are applied by
all participating agencies;
j)    centralize and consolidate project related accounts and financial documents
and prepare disbursement roquests; and
k)    serve as the Secretariat to the National Technical Committee
The basic function of the Extension Management Unit le that of a catalyst
to foster the capacity of the participating executing agencies to carry out
extension activities according to agreed upon principles.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Central Accountini and Procurement Unit
Terms of Reference
a)    Centralize  and  consolidate  project-related  accounts  and  financ$al
documents, and more preciselys
Mi)   coordinate the preparation by the implementing agencies of budgets
and other accounting and financial statements, and consolidate them;
(il)  prepare the end-of-year project balance sheet;
(Iii) administer the project's Special Accounts;
(sv)  monitor the implementing agencies' special accounts and replenish
them as needed;
(v)   audit the implementing agencies project accounts;
(vi   centralize the disbursement requests for the executing agencies and
maintain the respective accounts;
b)    program the procurement of goods and services to ensure that lots can be
grouped to the maximum extent, centralize all tenders to ensure that IDA
procurement procedures are followed, and Issue all bidding documents;
c)    give support and advice, in its area of competence. to the administrative,
purchasing, accounting and financial units of the entities responsible for
project implementation; and
d)    design and implement a specific training program for the accounting and
purchasing staff concerned with the project at central and regional level.



r~~~ <n                n   9-  <n      <5      -~  P-   -  @***   -*
s   l   l  t   t   w   g   W         "i      t !  w,   n          -  
""^j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i Xt'  
w~In   n   nnnnin¨ nn..................En..nnn....  ...n. in
.        ,___        __.,...............................................e. . ....  
n g  .1 'I                                                         e ie                   W,.*,       
"S   w  ! -   . -n -   f -. n n     ........ -   n.. n.. n..       "       n 
g-....................,- gi.      ,                                .   .e           
*      ei---<-----                     -                -   --       i -j,i on
I !-  n" ..nin        b. fin. n.nninn.nnn.
,~~~~ ,          -                               . e, 
~~~~~Inne                 n: n . - n              nn o. <n . _   ~* <  ' i
,i---  ---                                    ___                _|
n . . . . n9 n n n _i n9ô'  ||I
_ ___*- n- n.. __n ,i  fn n *. nn.nn.nfmfn 
X__ t_____ _   ..  ..  _        _   *.  _   _    _    i...nn U
Vi    - .   e   .  ,a   d  S-         ai               s,           
: ~f fi fi ..n..f. ., n.n**nn *. .. . g_jnfl  n                       <t.  n 
j  gl   ,  _   ,  _   _   w0  ,>   -   -   °   g ° lga i  o  z~~~~e t. 'a  *~ 
,~~~~~~~<           <n  <n<                           I  <i  o   1  t
e________..                     _I_ ..    
j  _ g~    n                                                   I .  z   _    X -. -$ tt1 
n fi fi 'nni.nfnnn   n fi 'i n                          i          i 
g  : g  w   _  -   -   -  *          ~~~-    -         l
nin -    - fi  n fin..nnnn          .nf.   .n. fnf,                     
.5 .i. fi:  _i fi n _    n........n..nnnn   .. n n_      .. _5  n _i     
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s :                            ,n         I
5 01 aed i fi - n n fi finfinent.nnnn o .  n              n
£~~~~~<i                                    eu  *  .        e        . ~:
n.. .f._ine finnnn__  .nf.................... .n..........................................n........... .f.i
n ~                   n..nn...SnS_



igv,I               , ,L   1:v                      1              I
...n      i     u                   j .                    it   
-t   ---------1  
.  o;.             I
!-  ------n    i
i ~~j                        i  _l 
I.           1             -                     , 
j      ..-        . - - - n                    -nfa 
C.. n                                . -  I na n e
Jnt    t.                        n ,    .  .   ,in    ,j 
~~~~..n..... aine.... ..... .. n; n  e    f    I
! n.t.    n  ..n     ea.        * .** ..  -   ..n -... n..  .... . . -   .n,  o 
,     Lit                                     if 
.....* a. ...    ...t ..nn n                    ....... fr-i........... 
t   .        Z                                        t   . 0  
i   ,  .   .   .    ,        .   .    j   3~~.  j 
i*         i  -    -i 
, .t            .        .     ...       .. .. ..- -- --  ii
:~~ ~ .. .. ..     n .                        n.. :
i:                                                  O- :   :
* . a tn .n .n.                 .           .1. ta    .
5 3° Z *swd     i      _    t                                t  '       '          o
t~ ~~~ X                                                    t' ',  j       o
n.- .. .. .. .. .. .    . .. ..t. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...
t~~       ~~~ ta _ 



~~~~~~~~~~~~Z   :
i~~~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ _                        , ,f  t  s  e  
le                                                     2~~~~~~~~~~~~u  
- - -  - - -                                   - -------- -- _-   -  -*- -
st ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~       t 
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                        M  O8   . O1O C   . ..^   
_ _                                _    _         _   __ _ _ _ -  -  *   _ _ - .... .. :: - ~ - :: ..... , :: ,i n  
-                                                  e -tt  t  -X  *.  s e   e   t **sa         
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
- - - - - - - - -  - - 
E4~~~~~~~~~f. r
QQQ~~~~~~~~~~~~_.-  e--  ~-~- ,- ,t
-e,_    QQ s                                       t i
-~~~! f-:~-                                     S 
,,,,._._.-    * -                             I ù
t, e.,
.;  .:   .  .:  .;  :  ::   :  :::   :   ._
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~r  O



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Subject Matter Specialists
Gestion des    Protection
ressources     des
ternies   Elevage   ~~~~~~~~~~Lau  sBRgion                                                  Elevage
Réalom                     Elevage       céréales Léeumineuses            s       Fruit-    naturelleg       végetaux         OSA
Fatick                         X            1            -            -             -             1              -              i
Tht..                          -            1            -             -            1             -              1              1
1og                            Z            -            -             -            -             1              -              s
Diourbel
St. Loui                                    -            -            1             -   .         1              1
Zigumiahor
Loidac                         -            -            -            _             _             _- 
-~~~4
TOtAl.                ~~~~10         3           Z                                        3                            23
JK#did
Docama eeagsja.t&b
x 



- 45 -
SENEGAL                                 ANNEX 3
P^g; 5-of 5
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT                                      5
Geographic Coverage
I.-  rieultur
Année O    Année I   Année 2   fnnuSe 3   nnée 4
R*nicn    Ctxé*cution  L20!990    19091.   1991/92   121Z/93  1993/94
Dakar         D..         -----------------------------  ______________
Th,és         D..                             f     -------------------
Sodeva        -------------------------
Kaolack        .A.          ===        --------------------------------
Louga         DA.                                                  Um....
Dicurbel                                                           ''"''
FPtick        D.4.                       - =uu5-- ------  -_     ------------
sbkel         OA. 4---------------------------------
Taabacounda   0.D. A----=--=------  -------------
Sadefitex      *8**S*t *S88SS**S**S*S***********
Kold.
S*dhiou/Kolda D.4 A                     anoeu----------------- .-------
Sodefitex      *'*U***S**SSS**SS**8$*S*BS8S**S*8*SO****st*
Ziguinchor    D.A.
Derbac        ............................................
St-Louis
Gandiol        .. -------------------- ----------------------
Périe.lrrig. Sa-d                                   ,
-Il- va
Dakar         D.E.                      -- --------------------------
Louga-Lingure D.E.         ---------------------------------------
Reste ton, sylvo-
pastorale     D.E.                                au==.------------------
Kolda         D.E.
- Légende s -     - a PN'VA  n phase opérationnelle
-u-u-- s PNVA un phase préparatoire
*$8888     s V.A. assurée par SODEFIEX. Relations
fonctionnelles prévues entre SO3DFltEX et PNVA
..  s V.A. assurée par la SAED et le OERDAC. PNvA
apporte un appui méthodologique et financement
limité.
- R"vision à mi parcours fin 1991
- Réajustmeent du personnel de la DA../IRA selon évolution du programm
- D0A. - Direction de I'agriculture (Inspection Régionale)
- D.E. a Direction de l'Elevage <Inspection Régionale
4 



ANNEX 4
-46 -                                                  Table 1
AGRICULTL M SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT COSI SUHAiRY
IFCFA  0001             IUSS '0001                      Totls
- -----   -------------  -------------------   1 Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign Total    tocal Foreign Total  Exchange    Cos,s
A. VULGARISATION - 04
1. DA                                           79.0   119. 3   198.3    0.2      0.4   0.6          60         4
2. IRA - DAKAR                                  31.1    49.8    80.9    0.1       0.2   0.2           62         1
3.  IRA - THIES                                129.7   170 7   300.4    0.4       0.5   0.9           57        6
4. IRA - KAOLACK                               133.2   187. 1   320.2    O. 4     0. 6   1.0          58        6
5. IR4- LOUG                                    23. 7    36 8    60 5    O 1      0. 1   0. 2         61         1
6. IRA   DIOUR£EL                                6.9    24.2    31.0    0.0       0.1   0.1           78         1
7. IRA - FiTICK                                 93 5   145.0   238.6    0.3       0.4   0.7           61        4
S. IRA   TAilACOUNDA 05AKEL)                    31. 1    49.8    80.9    0. 1     0.2   0.2           62         t
9. IRA - SAINI-LOUIS                            62.9    97 4   160. 4    0 2      0. 3   0. 5         61         3
10. VULGARISATION - SAEO                       172.6   170. 1   342.8   05       0.5   1 1          50         6
Il. IRA - ZIGUINCHOR                             2.9     8 1    11.0    0.0       0.0   0.0          74         0
12. IRA - IOLDA                                 69.5   116.2   185. 6    0. 2     0. 4   0. 6        63         3
13. RECHZRCHE/VULGARISATION - ISRA             220. 7   331. 1   551 8    0 7     1.0   1.7          60        10
Sub-Totai VULGARISAIION - DA                    1.056.9 1.505.6 2,562.6    3.3        4.6   7.9          59       4t
8. VULGARISiIION - DE
1. DE                                           63.2    95.0   158.2    0.2       0.3   0.5          60         3
2. IRE - DAKR                                   28.3    46.9    75. 2    0. 1     0. 1   0. 2         62         1
3. IRE - LOUGA                                  56.5    73.6   130.1    0.2       0.2   0 4           57        2
4. IRE - RESTE ZONE SYLVO-PASTORALE             68.5   122.4   190.9    0. 2      0. 4   0.6          64        4
5. IRE - KOLOA                                  20.3    40.6    60.9    0.1       0.1   0.2           67         1
Sub-lotal VULGARISATION - DE                      236.9   378.4   615.3    0.7        1.2   1.9          62        il
C. ALPHA8ETISATION FONCTIONNELLE                  450.0        -   450.0    1.4         -   1.4           -         8
0. FORMATION DES AGRICULTEURS                      90.0        -    90.0    0.3         -   0.3           -         2
E. [VALUATION Et suIvi                             70.9    87.3   158.2    0.2        0.3   0.5          55         3
F. ADMINISTRATION ET GESTION OU PROGRAMME         342.7   254.8   597.5    1.1        0.8   1.8          43        il
G. RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL OU NOR             102.8   360.2   463.0    0.3        1.1   1.4          78       . 9
H. REFINANCENENT DU PPF                                -   486.0   486.0       -      1.5   1.5         100         9
Total BASELINE COSIS                              2.350.2 3.072.3 5.422.5    7.3        9.5  16.7         5        100
Physical Contirgsncies                           103.7   141.2   244.9    0.3       0.4   0.8           58         5
Price Cont Ingencies                             404.6   476.2   880.8    1.2    .1.5   2.7             54        16
Total PROJECI COSTS                               2.858.5 3.689.7 6.548.2    8.8    Il.4  20.2             56       121
February 16. 1990  11:53



- 47 -
SENEGAL
Agricultural Services Project                            ANNEX 4
Summary Accounts by Project Component                    |e
(CFAF)
WAISATIO - D
IRA -                                                                                      C
IRA -                 TMNIM          IR  -    U181RISATI18 -   IPA -                     RED<RD/WLMIS0tmI -
M      IR - &MAR    M  - MNIES IO - ARACN  IO - LOUA  Ol1MEL  I  - FATIM    <sa)   SAIOT-UUIS                     S5D         ZIOJDoe  Ilm -                    lll   9           t   _ 1
1. uISwI  CDStS
A. UNIECIOIL                                   -      6,0         60.0 6m000.0   6#00.        6,000.0  6d00o.0       6.0;0.0      6e.0000      6p000.0               -    6.000.0       6,000.0                          - 10.0 IlmUIO
0. EM0IT ET ITERIEL                     65.00o.0      5.e00.0     5000           5000.0    5s.oe.0  5.000.0          5.Ct0.0      5.000.0      ,000S.o               -    5s000.0      5,000.0                           - 10t0 24.U.7
c. EIoe.
UNpYE S 4X                                        -                  -              -            -        -             -            -           -                -           -            -                          -  10.0  2.l00.0
UI1IKS  E LIE AIS                     55t0.0            -      5.O50.0                                            500.0             -                                                                                   10.0  4im.0
PIC-F                                       -     6.000.0      6Po00.0        6.000.0            -        -       60o00.0      6000.0    12M.00.0                 -           -      6.000                            -  10.0    em.-0
luiT <50O0                                  - C)600.0    34P010.0            45.000.0      4.500o0  11PO0.0     35.000.0      6.500.0    16.50o.0         25.0t.0            -    36.500.0                           - 10.0 23100.0
$*-Totuiî <      s                       5s,s5e.o    12U50.0    45t50.0         5.50O.0       43500.0  lO0.0     46,500.0    12500.0    20,500.0           2500.0                   42.5000                              10.0  44.750.0
I. FBTIM
FfnO  - UOmtO                        26.654.0      2.496.0    17.304.0       16.218,0      1.720.0  1,60.0       12o212.0      2,496.0      6120.0         22.006.0           -    11,060.0                     6.40    10.0  32.602.3
KROEdTI           FOCITIUIUBE               -            -           -                                                                               --                                                                  10.0 45.00.0
FNno  -                 -                   - -         -                    -                   -        -             -            -           -                -           -            -   -C                     - -10.0  T,oOmJ
Sot-Toa FUTIM                           26.654.0     2,496.0    17t,34,0        16P218.0      1.728.0  1.640.0      129212.0      2t496.0     6,920.0         22.096.0           -    110.0                        6.40    10.0 N.  .02.8
E. IEfIE Ein IIILIEU L                         -            -           -              -            -         -            -            -            -               -           -            -                  s545360.0  1.2 s00.o
F.   VERS I E CaNl.INTS ET ETUE6               -           -            -              -            -        -             -            -           -                -           -            -                          -  10.0 27.04.0
6. UF1IIENT OU PF                                                                                                                                                                                                        -   0.0       0.0
Totl I N IR. COlS                          97el54.0    25.196.0    7Il004.0        8388.0    17.228.0 23.64.o          69712.0    25.996.0    46.420.0           47.896.0   11.000.O    64.500.8                    551840.0 -m  ihmlt
Il. -EIi  IXSI5
A, PE_.
U.*iDS    ^                                      -            -             -            -           -          -             -           -              -             -           -                                        0.0      0.0
IL Toabl mE L                                 _                                       _            _        _                                      _                            _                                              0.0      00
8. FiS E FICTIIWIT
CMNTS k FNCTI OET                   23,776.0    31.172.0   1008268.0       118.5t4.0    26.532.0  7.403.0       12,762.0    31.172.0    63u372.0         113.600.0           -    a7,69.o                                   0.0       0.0
FUOIS k   EP0     5I                77.360.6    23.760.0   118.360.0       117. .0       16,720.0         -     76.U0.0    23.760.0    50.600.0          11.200.0            -    53,100.0                           -      0.0       0.0
9*-7ot  FRIS IE FD ETIUINT            101,136.0    54M932.0   226.2.0         236.424.0    43.252.0  7,403.0    1608#02.0    54.92.0   113,972.0            294.0,0             - 121069.0 0u1                                           0.o
Total          CMs01                      101.136.0    54.932.0   226.628.0       236.424.0    43o2S2.0  7.403.0    160.0           54.932.0   113.972.0        294800.0            -   121.069.0                           -       J        0.0
Tta     DEa CEISTm                         198.290.0    OOra.o    300t432.0        320.212.0    60.400.0  31t043.0    28.s94.0    so.80 .0   160.392.0           342.776.0   11000.0    105.637.0                   501.840.0      4.5 244tm.1
f16ca       t1,ge6oo 9l715.4                           29599.6     7,300.4        8t378.8      1.8   2.364.0          6t971.2      2,5W9.6      4,642.0         4.789.6     IIO0.0       6R456.b                   50.64B.1       1.2      1.0
Prme. C4iuo -e                           29,715.9    01,909.8    47eo.2          54.068.6      9.246.8  7t577.1      41,047.1    12U511.0    26,031.6          55,229.0    1,696.1    37.240.1                      91367.0       4.2 36.795
Toal F0uECTO0STS                           2377M.3    95.437.4   355.197.6         302.59.4    71.4.  40,984.1    207.412.3    96.038.6   1919065.6              402t79.6   13.76.1   229M.W9                         693,05.0       4.2 2U#7M
--- ---   ---   -
FoniR, Eoelhu                           144.774.6    59.117.7   203.254.0       224.740.3    439703.4 32,025.4    175o441.5    59,547.2   1106.51.4           20l,469.2  10I1I.2    144.226.9                     4.18046.0      1,4  ol,m.'
.ao23. 199  0924



- 48 -
SENEGAL
Apricultural Services Project
Sumnary Accounts by Project Component
(CFAF)
QU60ISATIUI - DE
ANINISTR1TIUI ET    ENFOEMENT
IRE - RESTE 71NE            ALPW.RETISATIO9  FORMATIU DES EVIMTIN ET    GESTIONI D        INSTITUTIGIEL YI  REFIWICEIT NI
DE     IRE - DAKR  IRE - 11   StlUl -PA E  IRE - XMA  FWICT itlELL            E /RI CITEIRS  SUIvi         PR       MI E       m                             T
1 IPESTW  CmSTS
A. MIIE CIVIL                             -                                             11000.0                                           -5,0000.0                     6.298.0                -   112,299.0
*. E01REIElT ET r   TERIEI         35,000.0     5000.0      5000.0           5,000.0     5,000.0               -             -             -          35.000.0         39t837.0                -   244,837.0
C. mIalE;
*EHICULES 4 X 4                  7,000.0           -           -                -           -               -             -             -           71000.0           74000.0                     219000.0
8DITiRES DE LIAISON              5.500.0           -                            - -11000.0                                                                           11,000.0                     499500.0
PICK-I                                 -     6#000.0           -         189000.0     6000.0                -             _      18,000.0                 -                -                -    96.000.0
MOTO t5e Cl)                           -     5,500.0    131500.0         26,000,0     5,500.0               -             -       10,000.0                -                -                -   281.000.0
Sub-Tataîl  laUIsW                 12.500.0    11,500.0    13.500.0         44.000.0    11,500.0               -             -      28.000.0          188000.0          18?000.0               -   44S00.0
0. FMT1U
FSITIM  -   .MISATIU0           17.469,5     1.584.0      3.989.0         7e628.0     1,612.0               -             -       6.000.0          46t480.0         113,194.0               -   326o027.5
APAiETISATION FGNCTlIIEILE             -           -           -                -           -       450.000.0             -             -                -                 -                -   45wsO0.o0
FORIATIDI - 1SRICULTEUIIS -                                                                - - -  -  -      -      90-000-0             -                -                 -                -    90 0-0- -
Sub-Totul FOATION                  17469.5      1P584.0     38988.0          7.628.0     1,612.0       450,000.0      909000.0       6.000.0          46048.0         113P184.0                -   06,027.5
E. REOERCE EN Mil)IEU PAYSA                                         -                                  -                     -             -                         -                -        -6
F. SEVICES E CON16LT41TS ET EtU5E        -            -           -               -            -              -             -       30.000.0          60.000.0        188,640.0                -   278.640.0
G. REFIIWtCDlIT wU m                      -           -           -                -           -               -             -             -                -                 -        4-6-000.0   40000.0
Total IIE SW  t5om                    àNt69.5    26.094.0    33.399.0          67o628.0    29,1l2.0       450,O0000      90.000.0      64s00.0          164P480.0        36 ,949.0        496,000.0 2.9100652.5
I. RE EUR     MOSTS
A.  _SIL
SMAIRS                                -           -           -                -           -               -             -      32.000.0         2O6,976.0          18900.0                -   Z6976.0
- - - -- _- ------         - -----_--------- ----- -   -_    - -- ----------  ----,--------_- - - -  -   -- -_ - -----                    _       -
Sub*-Totu  EL                                        -           -                -           - _                                  32000.0          206,976.0         18,000-0                -   256.976.0
I. FUIS DE FUETIOIUEE
CETai ex      lemum            34,480.0    28.852.0    47o412,0         75,309,0    21.639.0               -             -      6:,00.0          196.000.0          79,072.0               - 1228694.0
FRAIS K IDPWITS               5s9800.0    20,240.0    49.280.0          47,960.0    10.120.0              -                           -           30.000.0                -                -    M1190.0
-- -- -- - -- -- - - -- -- - -- -  - - - -_-- -- - -- - - - - - - - - -.- - -- - - - -- -- - -- - -      - -- _-__- - -  
S*-Totl FRAIS IS    c FOICiiu o   9.280.0    49.092.0    96.692.0         123.269.0    31759.0              -             -       62.200.0        226.000.0          79n072.0               2-814.874.0
- - - -- - -  -- -- -- ----  ---- - - -- - - - - - - -- -----   - ------    -          -    ----    - - --_                     _              
Total RECUIR    T COSTS              93,280.0    499092.0    96.692.0         123,269,0    31,759.0              -                    94.200.0         432,976.0          97,072.0               - 2o441.u5e.0
Toyl MELME C0ZTS                       58,249.5    75.176.0   130.08O.0        190,897.0    60.871.0       450.000.0     90.000.0      158.200.0        597,4s6.0         463,021.0        4t6,000.0 5.4229502.5
Ptsic  Contianomies                  6t497.0     2.60E.4     3.338.8          6.762.8     2,911.2        45,000.0       9.00000      6h400,0          16.448.0          36,594.9               -   244z9.3
Prie. Coe.iu.i.s                    23.385.3    10.873.3    19.615.6         36,128.3    11,291.7        89.856.4      16.105.2      26,265.5         95,093.3          79.904.2         46.453.8   ,m0777.
-- -- - -- ,- - - - - - - - - _- - - - _     _         __
Toul PROIECT COSTS                     89,131.8    8S.657.7   1=,034.4        233,789.l    75.073.9       584.856.4     115,105.2     190.65.5         7089997.3        s5,s500.1         532.453.8 654.2W.6
Foreign Exctanls 1.4.049.7    55.639.2 5    .151.4                          150,483.3    50,247.9                            -      105,888.9        306.254.8         4s4,279.4        532,453.8 3689.737.3



AU, 4
- 49                                          Table 3
SmA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MMACTS carT m
(FCFA 'ON)           (lES 'lm)                  Z Toul
_                                          ZForeign  bu
Local Foign Toal   Locl Forein  Total Ehu             Cm"
I. SNETIEIUT COSTS
A. ENIE CIVIL                          44.9   67.4  112.3   0.1    0.2  0.3            60       2
b- EUIPVEN  ET nATERIEL                 24.5  220.4  244.8   0.1    0.7  0.8            90       S
C. IEIICLtES
VEHICUES 4 X 4                        2.1   18.9   21.0   0.0    0.1  0.1            90       0
YI1MES DE LSIISON                     5.0   44.6   49.5   0.0    0.1  0J2            0        1
PICKW                                 966   86.4   96%0   0.0    0.3  0*3            90       2
MOTO (50 CH)                          28.1  252*9  291.0   0.1    0.8  0.9           90       S
Sub-Total UICiLES                       44.8  40298  447.5   0.1    1,2  14             90       8
D. FRNATION
FRATION - VUGMISATION                119.1  206.9  326.0   0.4    0.6  1.0           63       6
ALPAIUTISATION FONCTIWEU.E           450.0      -  450,0   1*4        -  1.4          -       8
FORMATION- AGRICULTEIRS -             90,0           90.0   0.3       -  0.3          -       2
Siu-Total FIMTION                     l69.1  206,9  866.0   2.0    0.6  2.7             24      16
E. ECEROE EN MILIEU PAYSAN             218.1  327.2  545.4   0.7    1,0  1.7            60      10
F. S.R!ICES E CONSULTANTS ET ETIDES     63.9  214.8  278.6   0.2    0.7  0.9            77       s
8. REFINANID(T DU mPF                      -  486.0  486.0       -    1.5  1.5         100       9
Toal LEIMET COSIS                      1055.2 19925.4 2,890.7   3*3    5.9  9.2           65      55
II. MRECUI  COSTS
A. PERSOMEL
SALAI                               257.0      -   257.0   0,8       -  08           -        5
Sb-Total PENSEL                       257,0       -  257.0   0.8        -  0.8          -       5
D. FRIS E FII NIEIET
COJTS E FUINCTIOMMENT               368.6  960.1 1o229.7   1.1    2.7  3.8          70       23
FRAIS E      SLACET                 669.3  286.9  956.2   2.1    0.9  3.0           30       18
&Sb-Total FRAIS E FOCIIOMEIT         1,037.9 1,146.9 2,184.9   3.2    3.5  6.7         52      40
Total RECURRET COSIS                    1,294.9 1,146.9 2,441.9   4.0    3.5  7.5          47      45
Total &AELINE COSTS                      20350.2 3,072.3 5t422.5   7.3    9.5  16.7         57     100
Phgsiel Cotimnc.is                      103.7  141.2  244.9   0.3    0,4  0.0            58       S
Price Continime                         404t6  476.2   Me0.s   1.2    1,5  2*7           54      16
- ~        ~        4      - 
Total PROEC  COSTS                       295.5 3,689,7 6p548.2   8.8   11.4 20.2            56     121
=--=   --- ss=               S5 --SC --                    -
Janwru  23J 1990 09:24



-50 -
ANNEX 4
TABLE 4
Agricultural Services Project
ProJct Cumuts h Téar
Totls Ioeludini Cmtlln e                  Tobls Ioe1Wu  Cmusnics
<EF17 100)<U  0>
1"0/1991 MIî/MW  1W2/1993 I"3/1994 TOtel   190/11 tm/m2 199211"3 1"3/1994 Total
,,~U  3333U  ,,.3~   z*,            2.       3~S USZU   .~Z~    s s_= ==
A. R<ISJTIIII - M
1.8*                                     89.4    74,0    36.3    38.0  237.7         0.3      0.2      0.1      0.1  0.7
2. 0 - lM                                43.9     16.4    17.2    1890   9.4         0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1  0,3
3e 1  - TINIES                          116.4    15.4    74.9    78.5  355.2         0.4      0.3      0.2      0.2  1t1
4. 1  -  1A0l                            93.1    96.5    94.3    98.7  382.7         0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3  1.2
5. 1lu - LUJ                             26.1    17#8    13.4    14.1   71.4         0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0  0M2
6. IIU - IIEUEI.                            -        -     14.4    26.6   41.0         -        -      0.0      0.1  0.1
7. IR8 - FAIICK                          53.9    79.8    75.2    78.7  207.4         0.2      0.2      9.2      0.2  0.9
8. lu - T^AlUI  UNL)                    30.7    30.2    17,2    18.0   96.0         0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1  0.3
9. IRA - SIT-LOUIS                       50.0    59.4    39.9    41.0  191.1         0.2      0.2      0.1      0*1  0.6
10. HLSATII     - Sl                    116.9    90.9       5.2    99.7  402.8       0.4      0.3      0.3      0.3  1.2
l. 0  - ZIOU IIER                           -     13.8       -        -   13.9         -      0.0       -        -  0.0
12. lU - KlD                                -     67.2    84,0    78.1  229.3          -      0.2      0.3      0.2  0.7
13. EIUCIEANMJ9ATION - 1A               253.6   140.1   146.7   153.5  693.9         0.8      0.4      0.5      0.5  2.1
Su-Tot1  ULIISAT10N - Dé                   873.8   771.7   708.7   743,6 3,097,7        2.7     2.4      2.2      2.3  9.6
D. wLBmstion - K
l. K                                     87.6    29.9    37.9    32.8  188.1         0.3      0,1      0.1     0.1  0.6
2. IE -  RU                              43.2    14.5    1S.1    15.8  8807          0.1      0.0      0.0      0,0  03
3. IIE - LIm6S                           62.08    287      30.0    31.5  153.0       0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1  O.5
4. IRE - KESE MlE SYLOPAlSTWr.LE            -    101.3    68.7    63.7  233.8          -      0.3      0.2      0.2  0.7
5. IIE -  1L                                -     36.2    23.0    15.9   75.1          -      0.1      0.1      0.0  0.2
Stb-ToUl UlI.SATION - DE                   1937    210.6   174.9   159.6  738.7         0.6      0.6     0.5      0.5  2.3
C.  AETUSATIU FCTIINCIJE                    59.2   124.3   195.8   205.6  584.9         0.2      0.4     0.6      O.b  1.8
D. FMTION ES ORIOtLIES                      23.7    24.9    39.2    27,4  115.1         0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1  0,4
E, EVMTION ET SUIVI                         63.4    29*9    48*3    49.2  190,9         0*2      0,1     0.1      0.2  0.6
F. MIISTMTIUN ET OEI1l DU PREUE            227.7   153.0   160.3   168.0  709,0         0.7      0.5     0.5      0.5  2.2
8. RfER        INSTITUTIMIEL DU IUR        170.6   137.2   138.7   133.0  579.5         0.5      0.4     0.4      0.4  1.8
H. EfINNICEfEIf Dll PF                     532.5       -        -        -  532.5       1.6       -        -        -  1.6
Toul F.CT OSTS                             2,144.5  19451.6  1,465.7  1,486,4 6,548.2    6.6      4.5      4.5      4.6 20.2
Jumru 23# 1990 09S24



- 51 -
Page 1 of 3
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Coste and benefits
1.        Curreat Cotts.   In the several Senegalese public  lnstitutions
charged vith responsibilities for extension, there are nt leait 1,400 staff
engaged in providing extension for crop and/or livestock husbandry.  The
total cost of this staff, at an average salary and benefit cost of $2.000,
is $2.8 millionlyear. Most of this staff receive little or no funds for
mobility, training and other operating costo. Exceptions are to be found in
a multiplicity of emall donor-financed projects, sometimes geared to
promotion of one technique (such as nematode control on groundnuts), or of
one relatively new crop, such as maize or cashevi. Other exceptions occur
in a fev rural development projects vhose field staff may be responsible for
many functions other than technology dissemination. The total non-personnel
costs of these projects is not known vith any precision, but for purposes of
this analysis, it i. taken to be netliuible. Two other important exception.
are to be found in the Fleuve irrigated areas (SAED) and the southeastern
cotton areas (SODEPITEX), where the respective rural development agencies are
providing, albeit with substantial foreign funding, relatively good extension
services to farm enterprises.
2.        Incremental Coste.  Inspection of project cost tables shows that
incremental recurrent costs will be $6.7 million over the four years, or an
annual average of US$1.7 million.   The cost of vehicle and equipment
acquisition is $2.2 million, with an average useful life of (say) four years.
Thus  the  annual  incremental  costs,  including  vehicle  and  equipient
replacement, will be about $2.2 million.  These costs suffice to render
effective 523 field staff of the DA, SAED and SODEVA and 112 field staff of
the DE (para. 3.07).  Incremental cost per field staff averages $3.500 or
nearly double the salary and benefit cost. Since the non-personnel cost of
good, i.e. mobile and continuously-trained extension staff, is so large,
these expenditures vlll have to be carefully managed and monitored, whereby
best practices can be identified and transferred to other areas and agencies.
3.       AÀre&ate Breakeven lenefits.  Any aggregate approach is subject
to undue simplicity, and averaging over diverse local circumstances. Despite
these limitations, an aggregate approach yields an order of magnitude for
breakeven benefits that can be a useful, albeit imprecise, indicator of
plausibility. Thuss



- 52 -
MIE  S
Page 2 of 3
Total Population               (million)                  7.0
Total GDP/head                 ($/Head)                630
Total GDP                      ($ billion)                4.4
Rural Population                (million)                 4.9 ai
Rural GDPlhead                  ($lhead)                220 bi
Rural GDP                       ($ billion)               1.1
Urban Population                (million)                 2.1 ci
Urban GDP                       (S billion)               3.3 ci
Urban GDP/head                  ($/head)              1,600 d/
ai Assumed to be 702 of the population, in the sense of those people whose
principal source of livelihood is in agriculture.
b/ Assumed to be no different from other Sahelian countries (i.e. erring on
the low side for purposes of this calculation).
ci By difference.
di Also by difference, and seema unduly high, but part of the urban GDP
accrues to rural migrants during the off-season.
The project incremental costs, at $2.2 million/year, are thus about 0.2Z of
the rural GDP.   Since the project will only cover 60Z of the rural
population, the project incremental costs are about 0.33Z of the GDP of the
target population.   To break even, the project must increase this target
population's income by 0.33Z per vear. This modest increase seems eminently
attainable when compared vith the long-term growth of rural incomes, i. e.
lZyear, or with the productivity increases observed, albeit on small plots,
in the firet year's pilot operations (para. 1.26).  If staff salary and
benefit costs are also included ($2,000 per year, for 632 staff) total annual
cost would increase by $1.3 million to be $3.5 million, or 0.3Z of the rural
GDP, or 0.5Z of the GDP of the target population. Income increases of this
magnitude also seem attainable.
4.        Breakeven Benefits at the Parm EnterDrise Level.  As above, any
attempt to average over diverse local circumstances will conceal the
heterogeneity of local conditions and thereby provide a possibly misleading
indication of median outcomes. Nonetheless, an average approach to break-
even enterprise benefits yields a useful order-of-magnitude indicator of
plausibility. Thus:
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



5 53 -
Page 3 of S
Rural Population                    (million)            4.9
Nuaber of Farm Enterprises          <million)            0.6 a/
No. of Target faru
Enterprises (<T>)                 (million)            0.36 bI
Increrental Coat per TPE            ($/year)             6.0
Rural GD? per Parm Enterprise       ($Iyear)         1,760
Size of Faru Enterprise             (ha.)                6.0 c/
Value Added per ha (including
livestock)                        ($Iyear)           290
Increame in Enterprise Value Added
from one 0.2 ha test plots low   ($Iyear)             14 di
s high  ($/year)           29 et
Percentage increase in
enterprise income from test
plot                      t low   (2)                  0.8
t high  (Z)                 1.6
el Assuming 8 people per enterprise
kt 60S coverage.
£1 Simplifying assumption; higher vith animal traction, lover vithout.
di Lov in 25Z increase in value addeds this is more thon double the
incremental cost per Target Farm Enterprise (line 4);
Il High is 0S increase in value added, or more than quadruple line 4.
These breakeven benefits show that the incremental cost ($6/year) is
double-covered (or quadruple-covered, depending on the crop) if the Target
Farm Enterprises put in an additional 0.2 ha test plot each year. Clearly,
some enterprises will rapidly expand the test plot to most or aIl of their
area, i.e. full adoption. Equally clearly, some enterprises vill not put in
any test plots, because they have no labor, no manure, no traction capacity,
no acccess to credit or inputs, no security of tenure, nor means for risk-
sharing.  The median outcome is indeed uncertain, and subject to different
factor endovments of different enterprises, but it suffices that less than
0.1 ha out of the 6 ha farm (or 1.5) is farmed vith test plot techniques
each year to cover the incremental costs (or 0.81 in the high case).  If
staff salary and benefit costs are al*o included, total cost per Target Farn
Enterprise vould be $9/year, and it vould suffice that 2.2Z of the land is
put to test plots each year to cover the full cost (or 1.12 in the high
case).
5.        The uncertainties underscore the need for careful monitoring of
benefits - not only the number of test plots (and new tests), but also the
rate of expansion (or true *adoption') of the techniques tried out on the
test plots. Equally clearly, coste must be carefully managed and monitored
so that best practices can be identified and transferred to other areas and
agencies. It vill be by working on both the benefit and cost sides of the
breakeven calculation that the net benefit will be maximised.
sensaras AN5/SENEGAL (JM)



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
TUE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Aaricultural Services Proiect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the IDA Credit
Cumulative
Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                   Semester             at the End of Semester
US$ million   SDR million
91                                   1                   3.1             2.3
2                   6.2             4.7
92                                   1                   8.3             6.3
2                  10.4             7.9
93                                   1                  12.1             9.2
2                  13.8           10.5
94                                   1                  15.5            11.7
2                  17.1           13.0



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
Page i of 2
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Strengthenina of the Analytical Capacity
of the Hinistry of Rural Development (HDR)
1.        A potential obstacle to the effective impleentation of the project
and a*sociated producer-support activities is the limited policy-making,
investaent screening nd performance monitoring capacity of the Ministry of
Rural Development (MDR). Until recently, it han been Government policy to
concentrate such capacities in the Ministries of Planning and Cooperation,
and Economy and Finance.
2.        In order to improve the situation, the project vill support a new
agricultural policy unit in MDR, which will have three main tasks2
- the formulation of rural development policies in pricing of
outputs and inputs (including capital), respective functions of
public and private actors and subsectoral priorities for public
investment;
- appraisal and consistency-checking of investment proposals
prepared in the technical departments;
- monitoring of performance (physical and financial) of public
agencies and projecte responsible for implementation of rural
development.
3.        This unit vill be a permanent part of MDRs organization at a level
corresponding to lt. importance, so as to guarantee its sustainability. Its
staff vill consist of permanent employees who vill receive remuneration
adequate to ensure the retention of qualified personnel. The Bank is avare
that the attainment of these objectives poses certain problems in the current
administrative context, but it is incumbent upon the Government to propose
administrative and organizational solutions appropriate to this project
component.
4.        The unit vill consist of a team of mangers in the economic and
social sciences, some of whom vill have expertise in specific technical
areas. For technical, agricultural or engineering expertise, the unit vill
rely on the technicians vorking vith MDR's various technical departments.
The unit vill have three distinct sectionst
- policy formulation
- project preparation and appraisal
- performance monitoring.
S.        The head of the unit vill have the rank of director or equivalent.
Re vill be an economist/planner vith at least a post-graduate degree and
extensive experience in administration and in the management of studies. ne
vill be responsible for the administration of the unit and for the
preparation and monitoring of annual vork programs for each of the unit's
sections.



- 56 -
ANX 7
Page 2 of 2
6.        The staff of the sections vill be as folloviw
Policy  formulations    2 agroeconumistu,  1 agroeconomist  specialized  in
marketing and pricing, 1 sociologist, 1 administrative assistant;
Proiect prreDaration and appraisalt 2 agroeconomists specialized in project
appraisal, 1 Ilvestock *conomist, 1 economist specialized in environmental
management, 1 administrative assistant;
Performance monitorint: 1 financial administrator (Inspector of Finances or
Treasury Inspector), 2 monitoring specialiste, 2 administrative assistants.
Bach section vill have a designated section chief.
7.        In order to build a permanent cadre of Senegalese managers, the
unit vill avoid resorting to iong-term contractual foreign technical
assistance. However, a support contract vith an external organization such
as a universitylresearch center is envisaged.   This organization would
provide short on-demand consultancies by specialista in support of the
personnel of the unit. Provision vill also be made for the HDR to hire the
Director of the unit on a contract or detachment basis for the firet three
years, after which the costs of filling this post on a permanent basis would
be transferred to the linistry's normal current budget.
a.        The project vili finance the unit's operating coste other than the
salaries of the Senegalese personnel (except the Director) for a period of
four years. This financing vill cover, among other things, Ci) a support
contract between the unit and an external institution/university for the
provision of short-term coneultancy services on-demands (i$) staff training;
(iii) equipment (vehicles, computers, software, photocopiers, office
supplies);  (iv) equipment maintenance; and (v) travel allovances.   The
Government vill be responsible for financing the necessary support staff,
vhich vill cons$st of three secretarles, three drivers, one clerk, snd one
messenger.  The details of the support contract vill be specified at a later
date and it is possible that the unit vould use other independent consultants
for specific tasks.
9.        A personnel training program vill be drawn up, and vill include tvo
main componentss  (i) short-term training to provide the various specul.ists
vitth the area-specific knowledge necessary to carry out their mandates, mad
(ii) post-graduate training for a maximum of three persons.
10.       The travel allovances accorded under the project viii be in line
vith those given to the corresponding managers in the other components of the
project.
11.       Before the negotiations of the project, Goverament viil resolve,
to the Bank's satisfaction, the question of the administrative framework of
the unit, including the grading of the specialists and their salary scales.
la addition, the Governmeut muet spell out the unit's institutional and
hierarchical linkages vithin HDR, as vell as the unit's location vithin MDR's
organization.
ANNEX 7SENEGAL AGSERV



- 57 -
ANNEX a
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ExDeriences of the Functional Literacv Program
in the Eastern Seneaal Rural Development Pro1ect
1.        The objective of the functional literacy program in the above
project is to enable selected farmers vithin each village to assume
responsibilities for group action (marketing of cotton, credit management.
accounting, management of stock of cereala, etc.) for which reading and
writing are prerequisites. The ability to read and write allovu these
farmers to better control their own affaira by being able to keep records
and to check the accuracy of records kept by others (the credit
institution, for instance), thereby reducing misunderstandungu and
distrust. It also greatly facilitates the work of extension in that
written technical recommendations can be left with farmers. Demand for
functional literacy training is always higher than SODEFITEX can satisfy.
2.        The training of the farmers is the responsibility of selected
extension agents. These agents themselves are prepared for this task
during training courses taught by specialized staff of SODEFITEX (1 month
for the firet campaign and a refresher course of 2 veeks for the second).
Once extension agents have been trained as functional literacy trainere,
the procedure is as folloas:
(a)  a central village is chosen as a training site for several
villages, based on the interest expressed by the people;;
(b)  farmers who are members of SODEFITEX producer groupa propose as
participants five to ten of their colleagues, who are to assume
group responsibilities (i.e., become treasurer, storekeeper,
etc.);
(c)  the villagers construct an inexpensive classroom with locally
available material vid provide the achool desks and benches (all
costs borne by the villages);
(d)  SODEFITEX provides an extension agent as trainer, a blackboard,
and teaching materials for the trainer developed by SODEFITEX
and the Ministry of Education (cost about CFAF 120,000 per
center); and
(e)  Students pay for their oan school materials, except the teaching
boock for which they pay 50Z of the cost.
The courses are held during the off-season (January to May), three days per
week, four hours per day for two years. Each extension agent teaches two
courses, and the numbe.r of participants per course is about 30. Tests are
given at the end of the first and second year, and those who pasa the final
examination are given a certificate during an official ceremony.



- 58 -
SODEFITEX' internal evaluation shows that 35 percent of participants manage
to complete the course successfully. Starting this year, SODEFIYEX viii
adify lte approach and develop a one year inatead of a two year course to
further reduce the drop-out rate.
3.        The m in factors explaining the succeus of SODEFITEX in this
difficult area sem  to be in order of importance:
Ci)    the *trong desire und motivation of the farmers to be
able to control their omn affaire snd to be equlpped
to deal vith the outuide vorld. They perceive that
reading, vriting, and counting skille are
indispensable to achieve this goal, and this attitude
is videspread ln rural Senegal.
(i)     The fact that farmer muet invest time and money to
build snd equip the claseroos and to pay (at least
partly) for the teaching materials lacreases their
stake ln this operation and deters those who are not
really interested. 
(iii)     The competence snd motivation of the training staff,
i e., the extension agents.  The extension agents are
vell placed for this job, and are much better than
part-time trainers vho are hired temporarily for a
functional literacy campaigu. The extension agent
already knovs the farmers snd has built up a rapport
vith thes.
(iV)     The existence of producer groupe snd the fact that
groupe that have enough literate people are encouraged
by SODEFITEX to take on economic activities for which
they are remunerated. Similar groupe are coming into
being in many parts of Senegal as part of the
Governuent' policy to encourage the emergence of
producer groupe.
,  . . .. . . . . 1'  s 



, 010~~
U~~~~ 1`' ___________
A'""''' E               X* 
w di ~~iX   1 S[



- 60 -
SENEAL
AGRIOULTURAI. SERV1MS PSOIEC
-orguîlZ&lln  Stvuctts of Agricutur Dopu"nsn
ATA
S"L ~ E*d
aQReL^ ~~~~~4u
_ofAD_*~~~~~~~~4hSS



- 61 -
SENEGAL
AGRICUL1URAL SERVICES PROECT
Or_enhzatnd Seucur of Llvost  Dsatmo (Dirction de lE'evag)
Uvagwk ~ ~ Uvfl
sur-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
vu-"
_u_
. Pnho  P     Ebn          H_~~~~~~dOPC



The Wam 0". tw *mvt,                      16M  A  U  R  I T  A  N   I  A                                                 s E N E G A L
rIe«t8d" &W 9sc*ZW0 raw          1t                                     _                                    AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
8.0 ft r4Wmoow                                                                                        PROJECT AREA 1990 AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
,,>, ,_,,W _» ..~ fy                                                                 <PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
Pm Sla nib                                           ' "                                             AGRICOLE (PNVA) -ZONE D'INTERVENTION 1990 DU
*_,  .                                           4 ,                                                    PNVA ET AGENCES D'EXECUTION
PRtOJECT AREA BOUNDARIS
0                                      UW7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIES DES ZONES DU) PtNA
AG_UCUtTUR" DEPAITMENT
DIRCTION DE L'AGJUCUJLTU
UIVESTOCK DEPARWMNT
__                                                                                           DIREGCION DE L' \EVAGE
SODEFITEX 
.4 riÀNr lc
e        EOEO    ITmADOAE   .-J         s'.,            GUINEA   -  BISStU<»   U                l<I N E fr
-1.  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ri. su> r. bn pwpard Dy                 46 
T?nw, .q ac* ip                                            M  A  U  R  I T  A  N  I A                                S E N E G A L
kl 7nezw<e ".  _t                                                                                      AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
ed't, %b6                                     _--                                            PROJECT AREA 1993 AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
.cfar~                          / .1~                                                             PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
lowfTh " ft*tau* "                  J        -        7                            \              AGRICOLE (PNVA)-ZONE D'INTERVENTION 1993 DU
.1" 
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
Ot/ltSlI'ESUlt ES ZONES D dU PNVA
AGRICULTURAI. DEPARtTMENT
DIRECTION DE L-AGPJCULT-RE
SODEFITEX 
CAP VERT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRA
'4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4
REGION BOUDNOOU EL
UMITES DE UGI~H   8.gn    K   A   0    L-Â
INTERUNATIOA SOTNEAM$     H
0CHF-NIEU EREG INEAONME  .cy ~~'-
INTERNATIONAL 8ou                           GUINEA  - BISSKU                                                G



IURD 2-
5  N   ALORAA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        S~5E N   E  G   A  
~~~M&UIIEANIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A U R 1 T A N I A                                                                                 AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MALI                                                                                                                                                                                 DVLA rRISATION
YIAIGER                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~PROGRAMME NATIONALE D   UGRSTO
r-'_.7$              t                             Da'¶ ' :'                                                                                          AGRICOLE (PNVA)
GUI9s SA>  \ 1 Ij,.îon                                                                                                                                               CÈNTRES DÉ REchs3PRINCIPALREEEARCSiCRNTERS  -IIT OF AGRICULTURAL ERSEARCI ZONES
EBOI~~~~~~~   '.~~~~~~~t-t  4~~~~~~~~L.                                                                                                                       LIMITES DES REGIONU 12E PROGCETIESDERCHRCESfRANMPMEMIESDE gGir4 D POGAME
MGR(Ai                                                                                                                      p.RESEARCN CENTERS                                              CAMAC
>CaL ; S> -- ~< v S * CE14TRES DE                                                                                                                     RECHERCHES              SUD OUESTlIS
aIE.Wh,   -REs.-.";.   L;+i/                  -             j                                                                                  *   SREARCN STAfONS                2 SENEGAL RIVEM
STAISO0NES ET PPMFEV
Ml----- Slows f -                        I,    - -     -.                                                                             FM- OCAnCNTSO  FTRIALS         3 CO ST
-  -                             t,                                    .                                             `        AGRICULTURL .TRANINO CENTERS   4 NIA_EE
CENTRES OE fORMATION AGRICOLE   4 NATES
if* __ J Rt.Rg t                                                                                                                                         - '? I/tam                                      5 NCIRTi ^N, CETTERE7p  OROLINONUT STIN
'IGA  -                                                           %..                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoRm ET CENTRE au) BaSSIN ApAcmfflOE
I   o. DUAW /                -          -                                                               .                                                     t6 EA SRN SENEGAL AND PPER CASAMANCE
r;_   7 X  -  > y   .    --      .                                ;    5                           ..          .;                                       5ENfGAL ONENrAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENGA CIEYA
CENh*RE ET S1M,\ 7  SIN AIRA CNILDIER
me -Wb-*                               m    s           ;      Cçgt                                                                                                                                 SYLVO-PASTORALE ZONE
/   i~\   iot   0  20    40    60   go    100
t'.
*CAR           I                                                                                                       ,-
-  DuE PAtMRNj^TE _ o w / i.miçn  T                        ~                                                                           r---S    .-
Coy    t  KWEMNEtt  _-;  - /  `  f \
UMITIES EREIN           0sssom'y
MION BOENOAR
INTErNATIONAL EOLONOARIES               "                                                                         r                                                  N
?,Mn3  CANTALE           b         E                   G        dhIONi{  ôS      
_  é^1MN OUNDAMES       ,_ ,>
'ONIETESINEON OE                        y                                                GUINEA  -  BISSAU                            5                          GUI  EA
-> INTE  S  IlNT.EINATlOl<Es  -- - ?-  G U   N E A
_   _              â?'                     ='          W ~11  Il'  oAn,au                 IV-                 -A              r!>3s_                                                                                              uur



