Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18001
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2108-SE)
June 12, 1998
Agriculture Technical Cluster III
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF per US$
1990   -  272.56
1993   -  283.00
1994   -  546.72'
1997   -   582.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCAR          National Agency for Agricultural Support (Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural)
AMRT           Monthly Technical Review Meeting (Atelier Mensuel de Revue des Technologies)
AVB            Field Extension Worker (Agent de Vulgarisation de Base)
DA             Department of Agriculture (Direction de / 'Agriculture)
DIREL          Department of Livestock (Direction de l 'Elevage)
ISRA           Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (institut Senegalais de Recherche Agricole)
ITA            Institute for Food Technologies (Institut de Technologie Alimentaire)
MDR            Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du Developpement Rural)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NPA            New Agricultural Policy (Nouvelle Politique Agricole)
PSAOP          Agricultural Services and Producers' Organizations Support Project (Projet de Services Agricoles
et dA'ppui aux Organisations des Producteurs)
RDU            Research Development Unit
RRDC           Regional Research Development Committee
SAED           Senegal River Development Authority (Societe Nationale d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des
Terres dii Delta du Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la Falam6e)
SODEFITEX    Cotton Development Agency (Socijlepour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles)
SODEVA         Groundnut Basin Extension Agency (Soci&tj de DIveloppement et de la Vulgarisation Agricole)
TS             Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Specialise)
UPA            Agricultural Policy Unit (Unite de Politique Agricole)
Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director         Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager           Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Tearn Leader        Abdoulaye Toure
In January 1994, the CFAF parity with the French Franc (FF) was realigned from 50 CFAF per FF to 100
CFAF per FF.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2108-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .........................................................                                                                                i
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                                                                   ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment ..........................................................                                            1
Introduction .........................................................                                                               1
Project Objectives .......................................................... 1
Evaluation  of Project Objectives ..................                                 ....................................... 2
Achievement of Project Objectives ........................                                   ................................. 2
Implementation  Record  and Major Factors Affecting  the Project ............                                            ............... 6
Project Sustainability .........................................................                                                     7
Bank  Performance ......................................................... 8
Borrower Performance ......................................................... 9
Assessment of Outcome ......................................................... 9
Future Operation .........................................................                                                           9
Key  Lessons Learned  ......................................................... 10
Part II: Statistical Tables .........................................................                                                         11
Table  1: Summary  of Assessments ..........................                                   ...............................  1
Table  2: Related  Bank  Loans/Credits .........................................................                                   13
Table  3: Project Timetable ......................................................... 14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............. 14
Table  5: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................                                ............... 15
A. Extension ......................................................... 15
B.  Main  Extension  Themes ....................                                ..................................... 15
Table 6: Key  Indicators for Project Operation  .......................................................  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                                                   20
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................................                                                                21
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                                            22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                                   22
Table 10. Legal Covenants ..........................................                                                              23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 28
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................... 28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                                                     29
Appendices
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire ..............................................                                                                     32
Completion Report prepared by Borrower ..............................................                                                      38
Maps
IBRD 21784
IBRD 21785
IBRD 21786



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAI, SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2108-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services Project in
Senegal, for which Credit 2108-SE in the amount of SDR13.0 million (US$17.1 million
equivalent) was approved on March 22, 1990.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, 36 months after its original closing date of
December 31, 1994. It is expected to be fully disbursed, and the last disbursement will take place
in June 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Abdoulaye Toure amd Leopold Sarr, AFTA3 of the Africa Region, and
reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, and Mahmood Ayub, Country Director. The
Borrower provided comments that are reflected in the text of the ICR.
The ICR is based on a mission that took place in January 1998 and material in the project file.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire, commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution, which is attached as Appendix II to the report.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURA:L SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2108-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    At the time of project preparation (1987-89), the main issues in the agricultural
sector of Senegal were: (i) an unfavorable macroeconomic and sectoral policy
environment; (ii) a lack of dynamism in agricultural technology generation and diffusion;
(iii) a high level of dependence of the agricultural secfor on millet/sorghum for domestic
production and groundnuts for export; (iv) the lack of a well-functioning financial
intermediation system in rural areas; (v) the low productivity of public investments; and
(vi) insufficient and weak agricultural producer organizations. In 1984, the Government
had issued a New Agricultural Policy (NPA) focussing on lifting supply-side constraints
and creating a policy and institutional environment conducive to private sector
participation and a reduced role for the State. A central element of Government's NPA
was the strengthening of the extension services of the Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR). In 1987, Government launched a pilot extension program with support of IDA.
The positive results of the pilot were incorporated into the design of the present project,
which became effective in July 1990.  In the early 1990's, during project's
implementation, the Government of Senegal launched an economic reform programn,
including an adjustment of the exchange rate and trade liberalization, that addressed some
of the main constraints of the agricultural sector.
Project Objectives
2.    The project constituted the first tranche of a long-term  program aimed at
strengthening Senegal's core agricultural services. The program's long-term objective
was to promote the sustained increase in farmers' and pastoralists' productivity and
incomes through technological change. The specific objectives of the program's first
phase (the project) were to harmonize the different extension activities in use in the
country around a system based on a farming system approach and to improve the links
between extension and research. In support of these objectives, the project included three
components: (a) the restructuring of the agricultural and livestock extension services of
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR); (b) the strengthening of producer
organizations; and (c) the strengthening of MDR's analytical and policy-making capacity.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project's Extension Component did not reach its objectives. It was successful
in introducing a new extension approach, based on the Training and Visit (T&V) System,
in the targeted areas. A better management of extension activities (programming,
supervision), the extensive use of farmers' Contact Groups and farmer-managed
demonstration plots, strengthened linkages with research through participatory on-farm
research programs and the systematic training of field extension agents supported the
successful introduction of a variety of improved technologies-improved varieties and
farming practices. Detailed information on adoption rates is however not available
because of the project's failure to establish and maintain a satisfactory monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system. The project was also successful in strengthening research-
extension linkages through the establishment of a Research-Development Unit at central
level and of Regional Research-Development Committees where farmers, extension
agents and research staff were able to jointly plan and review annual adaptive research
programs. However, it fell far short of reaching the projected number of farmers. It is
estimated that its extension activities benefited, directly (through participation in contact
groups) or indirectly (through diffusion), about 116,000 farmers (20% of the country's
total number of farm households) against 360,000 (60%) estimated at appraisal. The
main constraints to expanding farmer coverage were difficulties in recruiting suitable
extension agents and the low number of farmers/contact groups per field-level extension
agent. These shortcomings were identified early in project implementation but were not
corrected by the Project Management Unit, which focused more on the administrative
than on the technical aspects of project implementation.
4.    The project's Literacy Program was successful. It provided training to about
30,000 farmers, against the 10,000 projected at appraisal. The success of the component
was largely due to the transfer of its implementation from the extension services (as
originally envisaged), which were ill-equipped to carry it out, to specialized private
agencies/NGOs. The project however largely failed to achieve the modest objectives of
its Farmers Organization Component (sensitizing leaders to winning their active support
for the new extension approach). Like in the case of the Literacy Program, the Ministry
of Agriculture was ill-equipped to carry out a sensitization program for farmer
organizations leaders, nor was there much interest in designing such a program. The
latter should have been identified at the design stage, leaving the project with only two
options: either exclude the component from the project altogether, or design a
comprehensive program-to be transferred to a specialized private agency/NGO-for the
strengthening of farmers' organizations.
5.    The strengthening of MDR's analytical and policy-making capacity was partially
achieved. An Agricultural Policy Unit (UPA) was created within the Ministry. UPA
played an important role in the preparation and monitoring of the sector policy reform
program (supported by IDA under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, Cr. 2738-
SE) and public investment program in the sector. Progress on strengthening UPA is,



iv
however, still fragile, as the Unit relies on staff recruited on a contractual basis and its
analytical capacity is therefore largely dependent on continued external funding.
6.    The performance of the Bank is judged unsatisfactory. It was satisfactory at the
preparation stage, where the main issues and approaches were identified and field tested
through the pre-project pilot phase. It was also (marginally) satisfactory at the appraisal
stage, during which however more attention should have been given to detailed
implementation arrangements, a coherent approach to farmers organization strengthening,
an efficient monitoring and evaluation system and a systematic analysis the project's
financial and economic impact and viability. Bank performance during supervision was
unsatisfactory. Although Bank staff correctly identified implementation problems and
prepared action plans to correct them, the follow-up was largely ineffective. The
Borrower's performance was only marginally satisfactory. Adequate counterpart funds
were provided, but often late. Project coordination by the Project Management Unit was
weak, and its monitoring of field level activities and project impact was deficient. The
project' M&E system was never operational. Financial management was overly
centralized and bureaucratic, and a constraint to the flexibility required for adequately
supporting field level activities and changling priorities and work programs.
7.    The project's outcome is judged unsatisfactory.  Although the project was
successful in establishing a new extension system and in strengthening research-extension
linkages, farmer coverage fell far short of projections. The lack of reliable relevant data
doesn't allow a meaningful estimation of its economic impact. However, from the
information available, it is doubtful that it achieved a satisfactory economic and/or cost-
benefit outcome. Project's achievements in terms of institution/capacity-building were
mixed. Progress was achieved in strengthening MDR's policy-making capacity and core
agricultural services. However, sustaining and deepening these results will require more
comprehensive institutional reforms in public sector management (and this cannot be
tackled in a sectoral context) and in the management of the agricultural sector itself, in
particular with the devolution of a far greater responsibility in the management and
financing of agricultural services to beneficiaries and their associations.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned.
8.    Project implementation highlighted the severe constraints faced by farmers in
Senegal, in particular in rainfed areas, if the necessary productivity increase are to be
sustained, and therefore the urgent need to revitalize the country's research and extension
system. It highlighted the institutional weaknesses of public service delivery systems, as
well as the potential role that farmers' associations could and should play, if they were
strengthened via the development of responsive, efficient and sustainable agricultural
services. In doing so, project experience was very instrumental in Government's decision
to launch the in-depth institutional restructuring of Senegal's national extension and
research system to be carried out under the proposed National Agricultural Services and
Farmers Organization Program (PSAOP), to be supported by all interested donors



v
including IDA (appraisal scheduled for June 1998). This comprehensive, long-term
program will address: (i) the restructuring of MDR around its core policy-making and
oversight functions; (ii) the rationalization and strengthening of the country's agricultural
extension system, through the establishment of a national agricultural extension agency
where producers will have a major management and funding responsibility; (iii) the
continued strengthening of the national agricultural research system; and (iv) the
strengthening of farmers organizations.
9.    The PSAOP will incorporate the main lessons of the Agricultural Services
Project, among which are:
(a)    Ensuring sustained responsiveness and efficiency of extension services
through a top-down centralized system is hardly, if at all, possible. It
requires an open system relying on multiple sources of advice and services
as well as the commitment and effective participation, at all levels, of
beneficiaries in decision-making and control.
(b)   The identification and prioritization of farmers' needs and constraints is a
prerequisite for the success of an extension program. This needs to be
done with the help of a multi-disciplinary team that can guide the farrners
in identifying what their key needs and constraints are. An AVB may not
be the most appropriate person to carry out this task as the types of
problems that require attention move from relatively simple to more
complex.
(c)    Contact groups  are  a  very  effective  instruments  for two-way
communications in a technology diffusion system. However, the CG
concept needs to be reviewed. Experience under this project has shown
that criteria for the establishment of GCs need to reflect existing social
structures and/or commonality of economic purpose.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2108-SE)
PART I: PROJECT IMIPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    At the time of project preparation (1987-89), the main constraints facing the
agricultural sector of Senegal were the: (i) an unfavorable macroeconomic and sector
policy environment, including overvalued exchange rate and restrictive trade and pricing
policies; (ii) a lack of dynamism in agricultural technology generation and diffusion; (iii)
a high level of dependence of the agricultural sector on millet/sorghum for domestic
production and groundnuts for export, and limited efforts in crop diversification; (iv) the
lack of a well functioning financial intennediation system in rural areas and the resulting
highly restricted access to credit by farmers; (v) a low productivity of public investments
in the sector; and (vi) weak agricultural producer organizations. In 1984, the Government
had issued a New Agricultural Policy (NPA) focusing on lifting supply-side constraints
and creating a policy and institutional environment conducive to private sector
participation and a reduced role for the State. A central element of the NPA was the
strengthening of the extension services of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR). In
1987, Government launched a pilot extension program with the support of IDA. The
positive results of the pilot were incorporated into the design of the present project. Also,
the Government launched, at the begimiing of the 1990s, a renewed economic reform
program, including trade liberalization measures and an adjustment of the exchange rate,
that addressed some of the main policy constraints in the agricultural sector.
Project Objectives
2.    The project constituted the first tranche of a long-term program aimed at
strengthening the country's core agricultural services. The program's objectives were to
promote a sustained increase in farmers' and pastoralists' incomes through accelerated
technological change. The program had a special focus on rural women. The specific
objectives of the program's first tranche (the project) were to harmonize the various
extension systems in use in the country around a farming system approach and a
multipurpose service that comprehensively addresses farmers' and pastoralists main
activities; and to improve the links between extension and research. In support of these
objectives, the project included three components: (a) restructuring agricultural and
livestock extension services of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR); (b)



2
strengthening producer organizations; and (c) strengthening MDR's the analytical and
policy-making.
3.    The project was to be implemented over a four-year period and expected to cost
US$20.2 million equivalent. Financing was to be provided by IDA (US$17.1 million or
85 percent of total project costs) and the Governnent (US$3.1 million or 15 percent of
project costs).
Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The project's objectives were central to Government's NPA and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. They were clear and realistic. However, the SAR failed to
adequately quantify the project's long-term and interrnediate impact on production,
productivity and incomes. The extension component was well designed. The project's
main design weakness was in regard to the component for strengthening producer
organizations that included only very limited and vaguely defined activities aiming at the
sensitizing of "farm leaders" to the new approach to extension. The component however
also included a farmer literacy program that was better articulated.
5.    The Staff Appraisal Report listed three risks: (i) ineffective management and
training of extension personnel; (ii) low adoption rates by farmers; and (iii) failure by
Government and/or other donors to sustain the required (in particular financial) long-term
commitment. None of these risks materialized.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Overall Objectives
6.    The project partially met its objectives. It was able to harmonize the different
extension approaches in the country and lay the groundwork for improved collaboration
between extension and research. It was, however, able to reach only about a thir
d of the planned number of farmers; it failed to significantly strengthen producer
organizations; and it had only limited success in strengthening the analysis and policy-
making capacity of the Ministry of Rural Development.
7.    No attempt was made at appraisal to carry out an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
analysis. Instead, a cost-benefit estimate showed that, with the project covering-directly
and indirectly-about 60% of Senegal's total farming population, its cost could be
covered by a 0.33% increase in agricultural value added in the project area (or by a 0.2%
increase in the country's total agricultural value added). The SAR concluded that it was a
readily achievable target (however, the SAR lacked an in-depth analysis of how this
increase would be achieved). The lack of a base-line survey and of an adequate
monitoring and evaluation system under the project would have prevented any
meaningful ERR on cost-benefit estimation during the ICR mission. None was



3
attempted. However, it seems clear that, with the project reaching only one-third of the
number of farmers that were projected at appraisal to benefit from improved agricultural
services, its economic impact will fall far short of what was anticipated.
Strengthening of Agricultural Extension Services
8.    The component's objectives were partially achieved.  Prior to the. project,
agricultural extension services were largely ineffective, except for those of Senegal River
Development Authority (Societe Nationale d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres
du Delta du Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la Falamee, SAED)
and the Cotton Development Agency (Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles,
SODEFITEX). In addition, only about 10-15 percent of farmers had access to extension
services. The project was able to mar]kedly strengthen the services provided by the
Department of Agriculture (Direction de l 'Agriculture, DA) and Livestock (Direction de
I 'Elevage, DIREL) of the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as those of SAED and
of the Groundnut Basin Extension Agency (Societe de Developpement et de
Vulgarisation Agricole, SODEVA).  Activities under this component included: (i)
developing a common extension strategy based on the Training and Visit (T&V)
approach, focussing on a farming system approach and a close interaction between Field
Extension Workers (Agents de vulgarisation de base, AVB) and farmners, and increasing
collaboration between the different agencies involved in providing extension services; (ii)
putting at their disposal the resources necessary to execute their work programs (field
allowances, motorcycles, vehicles, rehabilitation of buildings, etc.); (iii) implementing a
well-defined training program  for extension staff; and (iv) strengthening research-
extension linkages. By 1995, the project had achieved a coverage of 116,000 farms
against a total of 360,000 planned at appraisal. Expansion of extension coverage beyond
this level was not possible because of difficulties in recruiting qualified candidates at the
offered level of salary, and also because the number of farmers per extension staff
remained too limited (para 11).
9.    Programming.  The project introduced an effective diagnostic tool that was
instrumental in identifying needs and constraints at the farm level. The programming of
extension activities on the basis of this analysis, undertaken in collaboration with farmers,
was supposed to make extension messages more responsive to actual needs. Actual use
of this instrument was however limited to the filling out of relatively simple
questionnaires by AVBs, and provided only an incomplete knowledge of the constraints
faced by farmers. The approach, which iis sound, needs to be reviewed and revised if the
extension system is to efficiently tackle the increasingly complex problems that need to
be addressed at the farm level.
10.   Training. An extensive three-tier training program was put in place. The first tier
consisted of fortnightly training sessions for AVBs (formation de quinzaine, FQ) that
focused on the themes to be extended diring the following two weeks and was provided
by Subject Matter Specialists (Techniciens Specialises, TSs). The second tier consisted
of Monthly Technical Review Meetings (Ateliers Mensuels de Revue des Technologies,



4
AMRTs) between TSs and research staff, aimed at strengthening the training content of
the FQs. The third tier consisted of a targeted training program based on specifically
identified needs. The FQs were regularly held during the first four years of the project,
but subsequently less frequently as financing was no longer made available in a timely
fashion. The AMRTs never came off the ground for two reasons: (i) the novelty of the
concept for extension and research staff, who gave it insufficient priority; and (ii)
difficulties in mobilizing research staff because of a lack of financial means. The targeted
training plan was executed as planned, with staff participating in workshops, study tours,
etc. Although difficult to assess precisely, it is apparent that the impact of the training
program was less than expected.
11.   Extension Methodology. The extension approach was based on the T&V system
and used two main tools: Contact Groups (CGs) and demonstration plots. Farmers'
participation in CGs declined with time because their initial expectations were not met,
i.e. extension messages did not fully address their main constraints (in particular, they
were more interested in access to inputs such as fertilizer and credit), and also because the
CGs were not based on existing natural groupings in the communities. Moreover, in
many cases, the approach was not properly implemented by AVBs, who worked with
individual farmers and not groups, thereby limiting the transfer of knowledge. Early on
during project implementation, AVB's also failed to follow-up with farmers on the
impact of the many new techniques that were extended, and to help farmers alleviate
related constraints (mostly inputs and credit). After 1994, the project made an effort to
limit the number of extension themes (improved seeds, improved cattle feed, soil fertility
and natural resources management) and AVBs were then better able to follow-up on
impact with farmers. As a result, a number of messages (15) were successfully
introduced to a larger group of farmers (see Table 5.B). Finally, in 1996, a start was
made to restructure CGs along natural social/economic affinities.
12.   Demonstration plots were used on a large scale by AVBs. About 110,000 plots
were established between July 1990 and 1995, allowing farmers to test a large variety of
new techniques (120 new innovations were demonstrated over that period).
Unfortunately, the demonstration plots' positive results were not sufficiently
disseminated because, as already noted, of the poor functioning of the CGs and of the
failure of the project to address farmers' difficulties in accessing fertilizers and credit. In
addition to demonstration plots, the project made use of weekly rural radio broadcasts, in
which farmers participated, to highlight the anticipated results of technical messages.
13.   No systematic collection of adoption rates was carried out under the project.
When adoption rates were collected, they varied from a low of 30 percent for improved
seeds for rice, to 40-50 percent for miller seed selection, to a high of 90 percent for new
varieties of sweet potatoes and onion (see also 5.B, Part II).
14.   Research-Extension Linkages.  The establishment and improvement of these
linkages was one of the project's main successes. A scientist was detached from the
Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles,



5
ISRA) to work closely with the project. A Research-Development Unit (RDU) was
established which organized regular meetings between the heads of the two research
organizations (ISRA and the Institute for Food Technologies - Institut de Technologie
Alimentaire, ITA), extension services, and the National Consultative Committee for
Farmers (Comite de Concertation et de Cooperation des Ruraux). The RDU's mission
was to support the generation and diffiusion of new technologies through the newly
created Regional Research-Development Committees (RRDCs), comprised of research
and extension staff and farmers and responsible for carrying out joint research-extension
on-farm experiments.
15.   The joint research-extension initiative through the RRDCs was very successful in
fostering collaboration between research and extension staff and in heightening
researchers' awareness of on-farm constraints. RRDCs systematically organized meetings
to discuss test results with farmers. The main constraint to the effectiveness of RRDCs
was the availability of adequate financing and of qualified staff.
16.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The project's central Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) Unit was unable to design a satisfactory system for the evaluation of project
activities. At first, the system relied on monthly information collected by AVBs. Delays
in the collection of the data and concerns about their reliability led to the redesign of the
system in 1992. The new system was, however, far too complex (64 indicators) to be
successfully implemented. With the exception of a 1992 study in the commune of
Ndiendieng, a beneficiary evaluation in 1994 and an evaluation of extension tools
between August 1996 and January 1997, the M&E failed to assist project management in
tracking project implementation; nor was there ever a full impact evaluation of the project
undertaken.
Strengthening of Producer Organizations
17.   The objectives for this componernt were partially achieved. The training of farm
leaders sub-component failed to achieve its (very limited and ill-defined) objective of
sensitizing farm leaders and producer organizations to (and winning their active support
in favor of) the new extension methodology. Like in the case of the Literacy Program,
the Ministry of Agriculture was ill-equipped to carry out a sensitization program for
farmer organizations leaders, nor was there much interest in designing such a program.
18.   However, the functional literacy sub-program greatly exceeded the project's
objective. From 1993 to 1997, a total of 1,115 literacy centers were created and 30,904
farmers received literacy training against an appraisal target of 10,000. Literacy training
was initially carried out by extension services (DA, SAED, SODEVA, DERBAC) but the
decision was taken in 1994 to transfer the implementation of the program to private
organizations specialized in literacy training. The latter had the advantage not only of
being better qualified to carry out the programs but also of being able to pre-finance their
work. As a result, the literacy program was executed with much greater efficiency.



6
Strengthening of MDR
19.   The objectives of this component were partially achieved. An Agricultural Policy
Unit (Unite de Politique Agricole, UPA) was established with the MDR, which played an
important role in the elaboration of the Agricultural Development Policy Letter of 1995.
UPA also successfully adopted tools (analysis of costs/benefits, domestic resource costs,
etc.) that enable it to play a greater role in the identification and preparation of investment
projects
20.   However, UPA's ability to effectively supervise projects remained weak, as did
its ability to do impact and financial evaluations. This is due to a variety of factors,
including: (i) its weak hierarchical position within the MDR; (ii) a failure to attract
qualified economists; (iii) long delays in adjusting the training program, established at
appraisal, for its staff to reflect actual needs (not done until 1994); (iv) weak internal
organization (no properly defined work programs or performance indicators). Inadequate
supervision by IDA also contributed to the poor implementation of this component.
Project Costs
21.   Actual project costs are estimated at US$20.9 million, very close to the appraisal
estimate of US$20.2 million, despite a much longer than planned implementation period.
The lower than expected expenditures on on-farm research trials (US$1.1 million less)
and changes in exchange rates provided the resources to finance project activities during
the period (January 94 to December 97). Government financed US$2.9 million (US$3.1
planned) and IDA US$18.0 million (US$17.1 planned).
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.   The principal factors directly affecting project implementation were under the
control of Government and the implementing agencies.
Factors under Government Control
23.   The planned institutional arrangements foresaw the establishment of a small unit
within MDR to coordinate the activities of the implementing agencies. For this purpose,
each implementing agency entered into a contractual arrangement with this unit. In fact,
the absence of appropriately defined obligations of each party in the contract and the
Unit's lack of hierarchical authority, or real influence, over the implementing agencies
led to implementation difficulties. This issue was identified early on during project
implementation but never corrected.
24.   A similar problem arose in the case of the UPA. In spite of its attachment to the
cabinet of the Minister, UPA never acquired the authority necessary for the execution of



7
its mandate, especially where it concerned policy formulation and project supervision.
These problems were not adequately addressed during project implementation.
25.   Overall levels of counterpart ifunding for project activities was adequate.
However, counterpart funds were frequenitly made available behind schedule. Moreover,
the mechanical division of counterpart finds into sixty percent for the extension related
activities and forty percent for the UPA, regardless of actual work programs, appears to
have strongly benefited UPA and penalized extension activities. This mechanism was put
in place by Government over the Bank's objection and never modified.2
Factors under Implementing Agencies' Control
26.   Three main factors under implementing  agencies' control affected project
implementation. The first factor was an overly centralized financial management system,
which led to delays in the availability of project funds at operational level and reduced
flexibility to reallocate funds to successful activities. This led to chronic underutilization
of the budget and shortfalls in the implementation programmed activities. The second
factor was poor technical management and supervision by project staff, which limited its
supervision to administrative aspects. Technical issues and field supervision were clearly
neglected, which had a negative impact in several ways: (i) the problems encountered
with CG participation was not identified/addressed until late in the project's life, and only
after continuous insistence by IDA supervision missions; (ii) the M&E function was
marginalized because of project managers' lack of interest in its practical use for
evaluating field impact and correcting operational weaknesses; and (iii) there was a
conspicuous lack of vision and focus in the work of UPA, with a resulting lower than
anticipated capacity to analyze and support policy-making.
Project Sustainability
27.   The sustainability of the agricultural extension program, given the inability of the
Government to fund more than salaries and related expenditures, remains at the end of the
project totally dependant on external financing and/or cost recovery from beneficiaries to
the limited extent this is possible. A 'Follow-up project, the Agricultural Services and
Producers' Organizations Support Program (Programme de Services Agricoles et d'Appui
aux Organisations des Producteurs, PSAOP) presently under preparation, will address
this critical sustainability issue by giving farmers, through their professional association,
decision-making responsibilities in the inanagement of extension services and requesting
them in return to finance an increasing share of extension costs. In the case of the UPA,
sustainability without external financing is also unlikely, given the fact that 70 percent of
2   The Government feels that the problem causing delays in project activities was not the 40-60 split, but
the highly centralized and inflexible project financial management system. The authors of the ICR
agreed that this was a major issue, which is raised later in the text, but also strongly believe that the
40-60 split of counterpart funds, irrespective of needs, unnecessarily aggravated the problem.



8
the UPA's staff are contractual workers earning salaries much above those of the civil,
available only in the context of externally funded projects. The long-term sustainability
of UPA will to a large degree depend on the introduction of adequate career development
opportunities and a performing incentives structure for civil servants (salary and non-
salary benefits).
Bank Performance
28.   Identification.   The Bank's performance at the identification stage was
satisfactory. The existing constraints to efficient agricultural services provision were
correctly identified, as were ways to strengthen extension services. It was also
satisfactory during project preparation. In 1987, the Bank approved a project preparation
facility to finance a pilot extension operation to test the new approach and design detailed
implementation arrangements. In addition, it assigned a member of its staff to the
Resident Mission in Dakar to assist in implementing the pilot operation.
29.   Appraisal. The Bank's role at appraisal was also (marginally) satisfactory. The
project was appraised in February 1990 and negotiated in April 1990. With the exception
of the farmer's organization component, the project was well designed. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) correctly stressed the following factors: (i) the importance of
clear relationships between the coordinating unit and the implementing agencies, (ii) the
need to carry-out an intensive training program to help AVBs identify on-farn constraints
and better understand the concepts of GCs and demonstration plots; and (iii) the need to
have flexible financial/administrative management. However, as in many similar projects
prepared at the time, no serious attempt was made to evaluate the project's economic and
financial impact, and M&E was not accorded much importance.
30.   Supervision. The supervision of the project by the Bank was unsatisfactory.
Through 1994, supervision was quite intensive, with 10 formal supervision missions and
for part of this period a headquarters staff stationed at the Resident Mission to provide
full-time implementation support. Supervision missions were joined by staff of the MDR
and project staff. The missions properly identified the problems but fell short of
proposing and/or of following-up effectively on solutions, which explains the recurrence
of already identified problems during subsequent supervision missions. Supervision
missions were not adequately staffed.  They frequently included only extension
specialists and other implementation aspects (in particular management and financial
aspects) were neglected. They were also frequently relatively short (about one week on
average).
31.   In September 1993, a mid-term review was carried out in broad collaboration with
Government and project staff. An in-depth review of the project's strengths and
weaknesses was done and an action plan was drawn up and agreed upon by all parties.
This action plan was, however, neither properly implemented nor followed-up on by
subsequent missions. Indeed, after 1994, the supervision of the project was clearly



9
neglected by the Bank as all available resources were redirected to the preparation of the
follow-up operation, the Agricultural Services and Producers' Organizations Program
(see para 34). As a result, many of the issues identified during the mid-term review still
need to be addressed today.
Borrower Performance
32.   Borrower's performance during project preparation, including the pilot phase, was
satisfactory. Performance during impleimentation was deficient. The Government failed
to follow-up on the agreed action plans; coordination of project activities was weak; and
project supervision was spotty and often limited to its administrative management. In
addition, although counterpart funds were generally adequate, they often were made
available with delays. The latter issue was compounded by the artificial split in
counterpart funds of 60 percent for the extension services and 40 percent for the UPA,
regardless of their respective work programs.
Assessment of Outcome
33.   The project's outcome is judged unsatisfactory. Strengthening the coverage and
efficiency of extension services and improving the links between research, extension and
producers were the main foci of the project. The project did manage to achieve a increase
in the number of producers covered and create a more dynamic flow of information
between research, extension and producers. However, no progress was achieved to
improve the long-term sustainability of extension services. The second component
(strengthening producers' organizations), designed in support of the extension
component, failed to sensitize farm leaders to the goals of the project, or to strengthen
these organizations in any way. The failure of the project to substantially strengthen
MDR's ability to effectively prepare and monitor projects did have a negative impact on
the project, as it severely limited its effectiveness in supervision.
Future Operation
34.   The project was conceived as the first tranche of a long-term program. In 1995,
the Government of Senegal requested the Bank to finance a follow-up operation, the
Agricultural Services and Producers' Organizations Program (Programme de Services
Agricoles et d'Appui aux Organizations des Producteurs, PSAOP). PSAOP, that will be
appraised in June 1998, will build on the experience and lessons from the present project.
It will take a comprehensive approach to the strengthening of essential agricultural
services in Senegal. It will support: the total restructuring of MDR, refocusing the
ministry on its core policy-making and regulator/supervisory functions; the
comprehensive strengthening of producers associations, through a full-pledged program
addressing all major economic, management and human resource issues; the restructuring
of the national extension system through the creation of a National Extension Agency
(Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural, ANCAR) where producers will have a
major role in decision-making and in funding extension activities; and the continuous
strengthening of the country's national agricultural research system and of its linkages
with both producer and extensive services.



10
Key Lessons Learned
35.   The main lessons to be learned from the implementation of this project are:
(a)   Ensuring sustained responsiveness and efficiency of extension services
through a top-down centralized system is hardly, if at all, possible. It
requires the commitment and effective participation, at all levels, of
beneficiaries in decision-making and control.
(b)   The identification and prioritization of farmers' needs and constraints is a
prerequisite for the success of an extension program. This needs to be
done with the help of a multi-disciplinary team that can guide the farmers
in identifying what their key needs and constraints are. An AVB may not
be the most appropriate person to carry out this task as the types of
problems that require attention move from relatively simple to more
complex.
(c)   Contact groups  are  a  very  effective  instruments  for two-way
communications in a technology diffusion system. However, the CG
concept needs to be reviewed. Experience under this project has shown
that criteria for the establishment of GCs need to reflect existing social
structures and/or commonality of economic purpose.



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(C:r. 2108-SE)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Substantial  Partial  Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives    (X)       (X)       (X)           (X)
Macroeconomic policies                                          X
Sector policies                                                 X
Financial objectives                                            X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                       X X
Gender issues                           X
Other social objectives                 X                               l
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development                                      X
Other (specify)
Likely 7      Unlikely     Uncertin
(X)            (X)          (X)
B. Project sustainability                                           X
Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance                   (X)             (X)          (X)
Identification                                       A X
Preparation assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                                       X



12
Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
D. Borrower performance               (X)            (X)          (X)
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                  X
Covenant compliance                                X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(X)          (X)          (X)             (X)
E. Assessment of                                 X
outcome



13
TABLE 2: RELATED IBANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title              Purpose            Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations                                                                          I
Agricultural Research         Strengthen agricultural   September 8, 1981    Closed, December
(Cr. 1176-SE)                 research and relevance                        31, 1989
Irrigation Technical Assistance   Financial and institutional   December 1, 1987    Closed, December
Project (Cr. 1632-SE)         strengthening of SAED and                     31, 1988
rehabilitation of irrigation
perimeters
Fourth Irrigation Project    Institutional Strengthening   December 1, 1987    December 31, 1995
(Cr. 1855-SE)                 of SAED, rehabilitation of
perimeters and extension
Second Small Rural Operations   Support to small rural  March 21, 1989      Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1992-SE)         productive investments to
increase rural incomes
Second Agricultural Research    Strengthen agricultural  March 22, 1990     Closed, December
Project (Cr. 2107-SE)         research and relevance                        31, 1996
Following operations
Agricultural Sector Adjustment   Support to liberalization of  June 6, 1995  Closed, June 30,
Crecdit (Cr. 2738-SE)         cereals, sugar, and                           1997
groundnuts markets and
I ___________________________  processing
Agricultural Export Crops     Support to deve'lopment of  December 9, 1997    Not yet effective
lProrotion Project (Cr. 3017-SE) export markets of                          (expected May 19,
agricultural produce, and                     1998)
diversification cf production



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle          Date planned      latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               May 3, 1989
Preparation                                              1987-1989
Appraisal                                                May 1989
Negotiations                                             January 1990
Letter of development policy (if applicable)             N.A.
Board presentation                                       March 22, 1990
Signing                                                  April 24, 1990
Effectiveness                           July 24, 1990    July 6, 1990
First tranche release (if applicable)                    N.A.
Midterm review (if applicable)          June 30, 1992    December 1992 and
August 1993
Second (and third) tranche release (if                   N.A.
applicable)
Project completion                      June 30, 1994    December 31, 1997
Credit closing                          December 31,    December 31, 1997
1994
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal         6.20   10.40   13.80   17.10   17.10  17.10   17.10   17.10
estimate
Revised           3.06   5.53    8.28   10.45   12.47   14.50   17.10   17.10
Actual            3.06   5.53    8.28   10.45   12.47   14.58  16.21   18.00
Actual as % of      49     53      60      61     77      85     95    105
Appraisal
estimate
Actual as % of     100    10      100    100    100    101       95    105
formally  revised  l___     __ _ _     __ _ _   __ __   __ _    _
Date of final
disbursement3
3 The final disbursement has not yet taken place (expected in June 1998).



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Extension
Indicator                                  Planned            Actual
Staffing:
Extension Workers (AVB)                             537              398
Supervisors                                          54               57
Technical Specialists (SMS)                          25               42
Regional Managers                                    16               22
Geographic Coverage:
Number of villages                                                 13,254
Number of villages served                         6,627            3,158
Rural Population Reached                        362,000          116,000
Coverage (%)                                       60%              32%
Farmers' Participation                     not defined           62,687
Number of Contact Groups (CGs)               not defined            5,224
Number of Farms per CG                       not defined              12
Number of GCs per AVB                        not defined              13
Number of Farms per AVB                      not defined             156
Number of Demonstration Plots                not defined     110,000 plots
(120 technical
themes)
Adoption Rate                                not defined            N.A.
B. Main Extension Themes
Crop        Problem        Theme       Year         Impact            Area
Groundnuts  Degeneration of Introduction   1994   Increase of yields    Kaoleck, Thies,
seeds reducing   of new              from 200 to 400    Diourbal and
yields         variety (Fleur        kg/ha in rain fed  Louga (rainfed),
11)                  systems and 3.5 to 4  and St. Louis
tons/ha in irrigated   (irrigated)
systems. Adopted
on 2.5 ha in 1994,
12 ha in 1995 and
400 ha in 1996
Cowpeas    Parasites        Phytosanitary  1991    200 kg/ha increase   Louga,
treatments           in yields. Adopted   Diourbel, Fatick
by 80 percent of   and Thies
farmers



16
Crop         Problem        Theme       Year         Impact              Area
Cowpeas     Planting density  Use of 8     1992    200 kg/ha increase.  Diourbel, Fatick
holed disks           Adopted by 70       and Thies
percent of farmers
Mil         Soil Fertility  Organic        1991    500 kg/ha increase.   Louga, Fatick,
fertilizer            Adopted by 80       Tamba and
percent of farmers    Kolda
Seed quality    Selection     1991    290 kg/ha increase.  Kaolack, Fatick,
Adopted by 40-50    Diourbel and
percent of farmers    Thies
Planting density  Use of 4    1992    350 kg/ha increase;   Kaolack, Fatick,
holed disks           reduction in seeds    Diourbel, Louga
needed by I kg/ha;   and Thies
and one-third less
l__________                                         time for planting
Sorghum     Long growth    Introduction    1992    90-day growth cycle  Tamba, Kolda,
cycle and low    of new               versus 120-140 days  Fatick, Kaolack
yields          varieties             for local varieties.   and St. Louis.
(CE145 and            Increase in yields of
CE151)                450 kg/ha in rainfed
areas and 1.5 t/ha in
____________  _______________                       irrigated   areas
Rice        Insufficient    Introduction    1993    Shortening of      St. Louis
varieties with    of Sahelian         growth cycle for
short to medium  varieties            Sahel 108 to 90-100
growth cycles   (Sahel 108            days and to 110-120
and 202)              days for Sahel 202.
Increase in yields of
500-600kg/ha.
Adopted on 30-40
percent of land,
where it is grown
mixed in with
traditional varieties
Sub-optimal use  Application    1994    750 kg/ha increase   St. Louis
of fertilizers  of fertilizer in      in yields. Adoption
two lower             rate of 90-95
treatments, as        percent.
opposed to
one high
Inadequate crop  Use of       1995    Adopted on 600 ha   St. Louis
rotation        agricultural          in 1995 and 7,000
calendar              ha in 1997. Yield
increase of up to
It/ha
Onion       No production   Introduction    1994    Production possible  Niayes
during off-     of new                between June and
season         variety                November for 90



17
Crop        Problem         Theme       Year         Impact             Area
(Rouge                percent of vegetable
l__________                 d'amposta)             growing farmers
Sweet       Quality         Introduction   1994    Increased          St-Louis
Potatoes                    of new                 production and
varieties             easier
commercialization
of crop. Adopted by
90 percent of potato
growing farmers
Jaxatu      Insects         Introduction   1993    Increase of lOt/ha.   Niayes
of insect             Adopted by 88
resistant             percent of farmers
varieties
Tomatoes    Density         Planting      1994    Increase from 20 to  St. Louis
density               50 t/ha during rainy
season and 10-25
percent during off-
season. Adopted by
70 percent of
farmners
Soil Erosion  Soil fertility  Ant-erosion    1990    Introduced in 30  Thies, Tamba
measures              villages with about   and Kaoloa
500 farmers.
Establishment of
400 stone barriers
(40 km length) and
planting of 60,000
l_______ soil fixing plants



18
C. Training
Type                       Planned                    Actual/Latest Estimate
In-Service
Familiarization sessions for  3 days for each agent   done
all extension agents
Retraining of extension    extension agent 6 days/year; done first four years, less
agents and supervisors     supervisor 21 days/year    during period of credit
extension
training for extension agents bi-monthly              became twice-monthly;
and supervisors in                                    done first four years, less
agricultural zones                                    during period of credit
extension
training for extension agents Monthly                 became twice-monthly;
and supervisors in sylvo-                             done first four years, less
pastoral zones                                         during period of credit
extension
Technical Specialists      12 days/year                done first four years, less
during period of credit
extension
Monthly Technical Review   Monthly with assistance of  not regularly held
Meetings                   research staff
Other extension training:    not identified
Visits by farmer           number not determined at    Visits in Senegal only
representatives (Senegal   appraisal
and abroad)
Senior staff visits to like  number not determined at    Visits to Burkina Faso, C6te
projects in Africa         appraisal                   d'Ivoire, Mali and Niger,
Benin, Ghana
Training of farm leaders:
Introduction to extension  2,700 person-days          N.A.
project (participatory)
Annual work programming   2,500 person-days           N.A.
and technical messages
Participation in extension    500 person-days         N.A.
training sessions
Basic group action skills  400 farmer groups          N.A.
Functional Literacy
Training:
Training of trainers       all field extension agents    done by private institutions
Newly literate people      10,000                      30,904 beneficiaries



19
D. Consulting Services
Subject Area             Planned                   Actual
Design and establishment of 6 person months         Done
monitoring system within
DA and DE and their
Provincial Inspections
Analysis of responsiveness  12 person months        Done
of extension service to
specific needs of women
farmers and traditional
herders
Communication techniques  6 person-months           Done
Design of mass-media      4 person-months           Done
strategy
Review of design of field    8 person-months        Done
surveys that precede the
incorporation of new areas
into the project
Support from external     Short-termn consultancies on  Done
university/institution to  demand
MDR                                                                          l
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Indicator                 Planned                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No indicators were
established



20
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study          at appraisal/redefined      Status     Impact of study
1. Mid-term    Review of project            Completed  Conclusions
Impact      implementation over the first two (December  partially adopted
Evaluation   years (in Ndiendieng only)   1992)
2. Beneficiary  Assessment of project impact on  Completed  Conclusions
Assessment  beneficiaries after 4 years of  (November  partially adopted
project implementation       1994)



21
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS4
Actual/ Latest
Appraisal estimate    Estimate
Items                       (US$ '000)5        (US$ '000)
Civil Works
- Extension Service                    365               399
- MRD                                   30                26
Equipment
- All but MRD                          785               567
- MRD                                   70                73
Vehicles
- Extension Service                  1,500              1,537
- MRD                                   75                79
Training
- Functional Literacy                2,800              3,098
- MRD                                  375               335
On-farm Research Trials              1,900               797
Salaries
- Extension Service                    700              1,395
- Project Unit                         150               410
Operating Costs
- Extension Service                  7,175              8,167
- Project Unit                         150                171
Consultant Services
- Extension Service                    500               833
- MRD                                  500               692
PPF                                  1,710              1,271
Base Costs                          18,785             19,850
Contingencies/Unallocated            1,415              1,050
Total Project Costs                 20,200             20,900
4  Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
5  Estimated on the basis of the Development: Credit Agreement and the Staff Appraisal Report



22
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in millions of US$)
_Source                        Appraisal estimate   Actual/latest estimate
IDA                                 17.1                   18.0
Government                           3.1                    2.9
TOTAL                               20.2                   20.9
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The economic rate of return or net present value for the project was not estimated.
The Staff Appraisal Report did provide a summary cost-benefit analysis. This analysis
concluded that income of the target population would need to increase by 0.33 percent
per annum to offset the incremental cost of the project. In order to achieve this, targeted
farms would need to adopt the technical messages on at least 0.1 ha of land (average size
of farm was estimated at 6 ha). The ICR mission was unable to collect sufficient
information to estimate actual adoption rates and the impact this has had on beneficiary
incomes, as monitoring and evaluation under the project was deficient.



TABLE 10. LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant                  _   Original          Revised          Status
Class(s)                       Fulfill Date     Fulfill Date
Agreement: CREDIT                                            _
Status Description of Covenant                         Comments
Credit Number: IDA - 21080
Covenant: 3.01 (A)                                                       As set forth in Sched. 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall
carry out Part A. I of the Project through the Ag. Directorate
03                                                                       (DA) within the Min. of Rural Devt. (MDR) & the Livestock
Directorate (DE)within the Min. responsible for Animal
Resources. Part A.2 of the Proj. thru DA, Part A.3 of the
Proj. through DE, Parts B&D of the Proj. thru the Ext. Mgt.
l_____________   ______________    ______________           Unit, Part E  through  M DR.
10/11/1994                       C                                                               In compliance
C C                                                             In compliance
__________  ___________  ____________  _________  C                                                    In compliance
______ _        ________         ________        C                                                                In  compliance
Covenant: 3.01 (a)(ii)                                                  The Borrower shall cause: SAED to carry out Part A.4 of the
13                                                                       Project; SODEVA to carry out Part A.5 of the Project; and
ISRA to carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency.
10/11/1994                       PC                                                              In compliance
C                                                               In compliance
C                                                               In compliance
C                                                               In compliance
Covenant: 3.01 (b)                                                        The Borrower shall establish and maintain during Project
13                                                                       execution an account and make timely deposits into it for the
l_____________                          _purpose of the Project.
l   I __________   10/11/1994                      C      __       X       _X_X                                                    -
l~ ~  ~    ~ ~~ ______ l_____                             C                        ______________________
Covenant: 3.02 (a)                                                        The Borrower shall enter with SAED into an agreement (the
03                                                                        SAED Protocol d'Accord), including SAED responsibilities
regarding the carrying out of PartA.4 of the Project, on a non-
reimbursable basis, and the provision for the transfer of the
l______________________________   _______________                          proceeds of the  Credit.
10/11/1994                       C                                              _                In compliance
C                                                               In compliance



___________                      C                                 -____________________________  In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
Covenant:                                                               The Borrower shall enter with SODEVA into an agreement
3.02 (b)                                                               (the SODEVA Protocol d'Accord), including SODEVA
responsibilities regarding the carrying out of Part A.5 of the
Project, on a non-reimbursable basis, and the provision for
the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit.
10/11/1994                      C                                                              In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
Covenant:                                                              The Borrower shall enter with ISRA into agreement (the
3.02 (c)                                                               ISRA Protocol d'Accord), including ISRA responsibilities
regarding the carrying out of Part B of the Project, on a non-
II                                                                     reimbursable basis, and the provision for the transfer of the
proceeds of the Credit.
10/11/1994                      C                                                              In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
._______                                         C                                                              In compliance               M
C                                                             In compliance
Covenant;                                                               Under the Protocols d'Accords, the Borrower shall protect its
3.02 (d)                                                               own interests and IDA's and accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive them
or any provision thereof.
10/11/1994                      C                                                              In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
Covenant:                                                               Procurement of the goods, works & consultants' services shall
3.03                                                                    be governed by Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
05
10/11/1994                      C                                                              In compliance
C                                                             In compliance
. ________                    ___________                      C                                                              In   compliance
C                                                             In compliance
Covenant:                                                               By June 30, 1992, the Borrower shall review with IDA the
3.04                                                                   progress made in the Project execution, in particular in view
09                                                                      of the further geographic extension of the Programme
National de Vulgarisation Agricole, the performance of the
SAED, SODEVA& ISRA under the respective Protocol
d'Accord. The Borrower shall take adequate measures to
remedy any executional problems identified in the review.
10/11/1994                      C                                                             In compliance



_   _ _____________    ______________                C                                                                  in  compliance
j  ______________  ______________                    C                                                                 In  compliance
____________ I _                                                   C                                                                 In compliance
Covenant 3.05                                                            During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain the Central Accounting & Procurement Unit (ref.
6.01 (a)) with adequate responsibilities and staff and employ,
at all times, for such unit a chief accountant with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
l__________   __________ 10/11/1994                  C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
Covennt 306                                                               By Dec. 31J 1990 the Boffower shall submit to the
09                                                                          Association model plans for rehabilitation of the buildings of
the provincial inspections of DA and DE and of livestock
posts.
T__________        10/1 1/1994                       C                                        a_-                       In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
Covenant' nI0                                        C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
C aff 3 a)                                                        During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
09                                                                          a national committee for agricultural research, to be chaired
by the Director of the Extension Management Unit and to                                Un
include representatives of research, extension and
development agencies.
l_________         10/11/1994                        C
Covenant: 3.07 (b)                                                          By April 30, 1990, the Borrower shall establish six regional
09                                                                         technical committees, to be chaired by one of the extension
agencies and to include extension and research
representatives of the farming community.
10/11/1994                        C
Covenant:                                                                   The Borrower shall take all necessary actions that the
3.07 (c)                                                                    committees referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall meet at least semi- annually.
10/11/1994                        C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance
C                                                                 In compliance



C                                                                    In compliance
Covenant: 4.01 (a)                                                             The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
05                                                                             records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
.___________         ______________    ______________              Projector any  part thereof.
10/11/1994                          C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
.___ __   __ __ __ _ __ __ _ _   C                                                      In  compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
Covenant: 4.01(b) (i)                                                          The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
10                                                                             referred to in para (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
10/11/1994                          C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
Covenant: 4.01 (bXii)                                                         The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, as soon as
05                                                                             available, but not later than 6 months after the end of each                                 O
FY, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and detail as the Association shall
have reasonable requested.
10/11/1994                          C                                   .                                In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
Covenant                                                                       The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other
4.01 (b)(ii)                                                                   information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonable
._____________   ____________ __   __ _ requcst.
10/11/1994                          C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
Covenant:                                                                      The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other
4.01 (b)(iii)                                                                  information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
01                                                                             thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonable
request.
10/11/1994                         C                                                                     In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance
C                                                                    In compliance



,______________ .______________      C                                                                       In  compliance
Covenant: 4.01(cXi)                                                               For all expenditures with respect to which with- drawls from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of SOE, the
Borrower shall: maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with para (a) of this Section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures.
10/11/1994                           CP                                                                     In compliance
__________    __________             C                                                                       In  compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
~~~~~~_                       _  _  ___       __   _  _  _  _   C         __   _  _  _  __   _  _  _  __   __C__         _  _  _  _    In  compliance
Covenant: 4.01 (c)(ii)                                                            For all expenditures pertaining to the SOE, the Borrower
shall: retain, until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit for the FY in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Acct. was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures. ,
10/11/1994                           C                                                                      In compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
____________    ____________  C                                        in  compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
Covenant: 4.01(c)(iii)                                                            For all expenditures pertaining to the SOE, the Borrower
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
10/11/1994                           C                                                                      In compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
C                                                                      In compliance
Covenant: 4.0 1(c)(iv)                                                            For all expenditures pertaining to the SOE, the Borrower
shall ensure that such records & accounts are included in the
annual audit report and ensure that this audit report includes a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the SOE
submitted during the FY can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
l                   09/22/1994                           C                                                                       No action required
05/22/1996                           C                                      _                               No action required
10/22/1996        _                                                                                         No action required
06/27/1997                           C                                                                      No action required



28
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
The project complied with
operational manual statements
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned        Revised          Actual
Stage of project cycle     Weeks  US$  Weeks  US$  Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal                 _____                    168  321,465
Appraisal                                v___49  108,459
Negotiations through Board                                          1 8   40,824
approval                                      .                                 l
Supervision                                                       210  520,336
Completion6                    l        l                        N.A.    N.A.
TOTAL
6   Total ICR costs were not available at the time the ICR was finalized, as all informnation had not yet
been entered into the timesbeets.



TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance
rating
Month/    Number of        Days in      Specialized staff skills represented    Implementation   Development    Types of
Stage of project cycle       year        persons        field                                               status         objectives      problems
Identification Mission         11/86      2               25          Principal Economist, Agronomist             NR               NR
Preparation Mission 1          08/87      3               7           Principal Economist, Economist, Agr.        NR               NR
l________   ______________    __________    Services Specialist. Special Adviser
Preparation Mission 2          02/88      2               N.A.        Agr. Services Specialist, unknown           NR               NR
Preparation Mission 3          10/88      2               6           Agr. Economist, Agr. Services               NR               NR
l _____________________________   __________                          Specialist
Appraisal Mission              05/89      4               19          Agr. Services Specialist (2) Livestock      NR               NR
Specialist, Operations Analyst        _       _
Supervision Mission 1          12/89      2               N.A.        Ag. Services Specialist, Economist           I                I
Supervision Mission 2          12/90      3               5           Ag. Services Specialist, Economist,          I                I
Financial Analyst
Supervision Mission 3          10/91      2               6           Ag. Services Specialist (2)                  2                1         Procurement
Progress,
Financial
Performance
Supervision Mission 4          03/92      2               5           Ag. Services Specialist, Special             2                1         Procurement
Adviser                                                                 Progress,
Financial
Performance
Supervision Mission 5          09/92      2               5           Ag. Services Specialist, Special             2                1         Procurement
Adviser                                                                 Progress,
Financial
Performance
Supervision Mission 6          06/93      1               5           Rural Development Specialist                NR               NR



Supervision Mission 7        08/93      2              5           Ag. Services Specialist, Special          NR              NR
Adviser
Mid-Term Review!             09/93      3              9           Ag. Services Specialist (3)                2               I         Procurement
Supervision Mission 8                                                                                                                   Progress,
Financial
Performance
Supervision Mission 9        08/94      3              6           Ag. Services Specialist, Principal Ag.     S              HS         Procurement
Services Specialist, Special Adviser                                Progress,
Financial
Performance
Supervision Mission 10       11/94      2              4           Ag. Services Specialist, Principal Ag.    NR              NR
Services Specialist
Supervision Mission II 7     06/95       1             N.A.        Sr. Agr. Services Specialist               S              HS         Counterpart
Funds,
Procurement,
Project
Management
Supervision Mission 12       07/95      3              N.A.        Agr. Services Specialist, Sr. Agr.         S              HS         Counterpart
Services Specialist, Principal Agr.                                 Funds,
Services Specialist                                                 Procurement,               o
Project
Management
Supervision Mission 13       12/95      2              N.A.        Sr. Agr. Services Specialist, Principal    S              HS         Counterpart
Agr. Services Specialist                                            Funds,
Procurement,
Project
Management
Supervision Mission 14       05/96      1              N.A.        Sr. Agr. Services Specialist               S               S         Counterpart
Funds,
Procurement,
7    Starting in 1995, suprvision of this project was carried as an integral part of the preparation of the Agricultural Services and Support to Producer
Organizations Project. It is not known, how much time was spent actually supervising this project during the preparation missions. No separate
supervision reports were issued. The ratings in the table are the ratings from the annual Form 590 portfolio updates.



Project
I         ._________________________                              .____________                              ._________________________________                                                  ______________            M  anagem     ent
Supervision Mission 15                         01/97             4                       N.A.               Agr. Services Specialist, Sr. Agr.                                   S                         S
Services Specialist (2), Pr. Agr.
Services Specialist                                                                                                                l
Final Supervision Mission/                     01/98             2                        13                Ag. Services Specialist (2)                                          S                         S
Completion Mission                                 ---                                                                                                               .
LO.



32                         APPENDIX I
Aide-memoire
Mission de supervision finale
Projet National des Services Agricoles Senegal
(CR. 2108 SE)
Une mission conjointe de la Republique du Senegal et de la Banque mondiale a procede A
la supervision finale du Projet National des Services Agricoles du Senegal au cours de la
periode du 5 au 17janvier 1998.
La mission etait composee pour la Banque mondiale de Messrs. Abdoulaye Toure
(specialiste des services agricoles - Abidjan) et Leopold Sarr (specialiste des services
agricoles - Dakar) et pour la Republique du Senegal de Mrs M. Lamine Kane ( Ministere
des Finances) et Modou Sall (Ministere de l'Agriculture) et l'equipe de l'Unite de
Coordination du Projet.
La mission a eu plusieurs seances de travail A Dakar et a effectu6 des visites de terrain
dans les zones couvertes par la SODEVA, la SAED, la Direction de l'Agriculture et la
Direction de l'Elevage, notamment dans les regions de Saint Louis, Louga et Thies. Elle a
pu discuter avec les producteurs et les agents de differents niveau du dispositif.
La mission a expose ses conclusions au cours d'une reunion au Ministere des Finances le
Vendredi 16janvier 1998.
La mission tient a remercier le Ministre de l'Agriculture, le Ministre des Finances ainsi
que 1'ensemble des cadres Senegalais pour leur entiere disponibilite et leur cooperation.
Preparation du rapport final du Gouvernement
La mission a fait le point de l'Etat d'avancement de la preparation du rapport
d'achevement de la partie Senegalaise et a constate que la redaction n'avait pas encore
veritablement demarre meme si l'equipe de redaction 6tait deja identifiee. La mission a
donc rappele A la partie Senegalaise que les indications pour rediger le rapport du
Gouvernement sont contenus dans la lettre de la Banque envoyee au Gouvernement
Senegalais en Novembre pour annoncer la mission de preparation de l'evaluation A
posteriori du projet. Elle a donne des pr6cisions sur le contenu et la forme du rapport de
1'Emprunteur.
La mission a rappel6 que le conseil d'administration de la Banque attache beaucoup
d'importance au rapport d'achevement des projets qui permettent de tirer les
enseignements majeurs sur les projets finances par la banque et d'orienter les
financements futures. Le rapport d'achevement doit etre publie dans les six mois qui



33
suivent la fin du projet. la partie redigee par le pays emprunteur fait partie integrante du
rapport d'achevement.
La mission a presente son evaluation sur les points qui doivent figurer dans le rapport
d'achevement a savoir i) la pertinence d,es objectifs et composantes du projet, ii) les
realisations, resultats et impact du projet, iii) le bilan de 1'execution du projet et les
facteurs ayant influences l'execution, iv) les performances de l'emprunteur et de la
banque, et enfin les principales lecons apprises.
De fa,on generale la partie senegalaise etait d' accord avec les conclusions de la mission.
Elle a estime qu'il faudrait quand meme tenir compte de la situation macro-economique
dans laquelle le projet a evolue notamment la recession economique des annees 90 a 94 et
les politiques d'ajustement engages durant cette periode. Elle estime que ce contexte qui a
affecte particulierement les prix agricoles des principaux produits d'exportation a eu un
impact non negligeable sur les resultats du projet. En plus de ce point elle a apporte
quelques eclairages et precisions sur certaines questions de la mission.
Principales conclusions de la mission
La mission a fait le constat que les objectifs du projet etaient en general adequats par
rapport au contexte initial mais que la partie appui aux organisation paysannes aurait du
8tre plus 6labore. Le projet a connu une phase d'intense activite suivi d'une phase de
relichement a partir de l'annee 1995 correspondant a l'arrivee d'une nouvelle equipe a la
direction du projet, au demarrage de la preparation de la deuxieme phase, et a la periode
de prorogation de la date de cl6ture du projet. Les differents rapports consultes montrent
que les difficultes et insuffisances financieres et techniques du projet ont ete bien
identifiees, bien diagnostiqu6es mais le projet n'a pas eu la capacite de les corriger de
sorte qu'ils apparaissent de maniere recurrente dans les rapports.
Les resultats du projet sont tres mitiges. Comparativement a la situation d'avant la
mise en oeuvre du projet on peut dire que les resultats sont relativement satisfaisants sur
certains aspects, mais par rapport au potentiel du projet, les resultats auraient pu &re
decuples. En effet avant le PNVA, en dlehors de la SAED et de la SODEFITEX, les
services agricoles etaient disparates et inefficaces, les liens entre la recherche et la
vulgarisation inexistants, les innovations techniques dormaient dans les "tiroirs" de la
recherche, et les paysans vivaient avec leurs problemes sans espoir de solutions. Le
PNVA a permis de redynamiser ces services en mettant a leur disposition des moyens de
travail, en ameliorant l'expertise des agents de vulgarisation a travers un vaste
programme de formation, en ameliorant le dialogue entre les agents de vulgarisation et les
producteurs, en favorisant l'interaction et l'echange entre les differentes structures de
vulgarisation et en developpant une strategie et des outils de travail rationnels.
La mise en oeuvre du projet et les resultats obtenus sont variables en fonction des
operateurs. Il convient de noter que le concept de polyvalence n'a pas en general



34
fonctionn6 sauf partiellement dans les zones de la DIREL ou un effort a ete deploye par
les ABV pour prendre en compte la resolution des problemes agricoles.
L'analyse des differents outils developpes dans le systeme de vulgarisation a permis a la
mission de relever les points suivants:
Diagnostic et programmation. Le PNVA a permis d'introduire pour la premiere
fois au Senegal la notion de diagnostic syst6matique fait avec les paysans et de
planification faite avec la participation des representants de paysans dans des instances
locales, regionales et nationale. Ce qui a ameliore la pertinence des actions de
vulgarisation. Mais la methode de diagnostic aurait gagne en efficacite si elle avait ete
plus dynamique8et etait conduite de facon plus specialisee a la base par l'equipe
pluridisciplinaire de la zone (TS, superviseurs, CA) appuye par les cadres des regions et
eventuellement de la recherche.
Systeme de formation. Trois types de formation ont ete developpes par le PNVA,
a savoir les AMRT, les FQ et les formations ou stage specifiques (FS). Pendant les trois
premieres annees les FQ et les FS ont relativement bien fonctionn6 mais par la suite le
nombre de seances de formation a ete considerablement reduit. Les AMRT par contre
n'ont pas du tout fonctionne durant tout le developpement du PNVA. Les raisons se
rdsument dans les difficultes d'intemalisation du concept, les problemes de planification
et d'organisation, la non disponibilite des chercheurs, et les difficultds de mobilisation du
financement. La SODEVA, la DA et la DIREL ont tente de realiser quelques AMRT mais
les themes etaient trop generaux. La SAED n'a pas du tout adopte les AMRT et a
continue comme par le passe a realiser des stages de formation groupds avant le
demarrage de la campagne agricole. En plus de ces formations le PNVA a ddveloppd avec
succes un programme d'alphabetisation fonctionnel. Un nombre total de 1115 centres ont
ete ouverts et 30.904 auditeurs y ont ete formes de 1993 a 1997. Au debut
I'alphabetisation, conformement a l'accord de credit, avait ete confiee aux structures
publiques mais tres vite cela s'est avere peu efficace. En 1994 le PNVA s'est adressd a
des prestataires prives plus qualifies qui avaient entre autres possibilites celle de
prefinancer les activites et donc de pouvoir realiser sans trop de retard les objectifs
arretes.
Systeme d'intervention. Deux principaux outils d'intervention ont ete developpes
par le PNVA. Il s'agit des GC et des Unites de Demonstration (UD). L'evaluation a mi-
parcours et l'evaluation des beneficiaires ont montr6 que les GC n'ont pas bien
fonctionne. Les taux de participation etaient faibles, le mode de constitution et
d'animation des GC 6taient inadequat, I'attente initiale des paysans qui pensaient trouver
a travers les GC des intrants, des equipements agricoles etant dd9us, ces derniers s'en sont
desinteresses. Une tentative de restructuration des GC tenant compte des groupes naturels
8 car le diagnostic a ete fait par les AVB a partir d'un questionnaire et a abouti & une connaissance partielle
et insuffisante des problemes et des demandes paysannes.



35
et traditionnels au sein des villages a deniarre en 1996. Les resultats semblent meilleurs
mais il n'y a pas de donnees fiables permettant d'evaluer le degre de mise en oeuvre et
l'impact de cette amelioration. Si les GC n'ont pas dans l'ensemble bien fonctionn6, les
UD ont quant a eux e  utilises avec plus ou moins de succes permettant aux paysans de
tester une gamme variee d'innovations avec des resultats A l'echelle de la demonstration
generalement positifs. Mais la gestion des resultats des UD n'a pas en general et tres
efficace pour amplifier la dissemination des resultats, libre court a ete laisse A l'auto-
diffusion. Ainsi la diffusion de la plupart des technologies s'est limitee A l'echelle du GC
ou du voisinage immediat des membres dii GC.
Technologies vulgarisees: Durant les trois premieres annees du projet, une
gamme importante de technologies ont el: introduites par la vulgarisation (plus de 120)
mais peu d'entre elles ont connu un large niveau de diffusion. Cette dispersion des efforts
ne permettait pas de voir l'impact des actions sur le terrain, ce qui a amene le PNVA a
recentrer son programme d'activites A partir de 1994 pour se concentrer en 96 et 97 sur la
diffusion de 3 A 4 themes majeurs. Cela a permis de vulgariser A une echelle plus vaste
une quinzaine de themes techniques (voir liste en annexe) au rang desquels on compte les
introductions de varietes plus performantes, la defense et la restauration de la fertilite des
sols et quelques techniques culturales. Les themes proposes ont evolue progressivement
pour s'adapter a la demande, mais la dimension exploitation n'a pas ete prise en compte.
Liens recherche-vulgarisation: L'etablissement et l'amelioration continu des
relations entre la recherche et la vulgarisation ont ete l'une des reussites majeures du
projet. Ces relations sont perceptibles A travers : (i) le detachement d'un chercheur senior
de 1'ISRA au sein du PNVA charge de superviser la conduite du programme R/D ; (ii) le
fonctionnement des comites regionaux R/D de programmationlbilan comprenant la
recherche, la vulgarisation et les paysans ; (iii) la participation de la vulgarisation (AVB
et TS) dans les tests inities par la recherche ; et (iv) les seances de restitution des resultats
de la R/D aux producteurs. Aujourd'hui les agents de vulgarisation et de recherche qui
etaient etrangers les uns aux autres avant les annees 1990 se connaissent mieux et
travaillent ensemble, les chercheurs sont informes des problemes de terrain et les donnees
issues de la recherche sont testees sous forme de demonstration par les producteurs.
Neanmoins l'intervention de la recherche a ete fortement limitee sur le terrain A cause en
particulier des difficultes de mobilisation A temps des ressources financieres.
Renforcement des associations de producteurs: Le projet n'a pas prevu un
veritable volet d'appui aux associations dle producteurs. La seule action importante et qui
a connu un vrai succes est l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle. Mais ce programme n'a pas
cible specifiquement les membres des Association de Producteurs (AP) et n'a pas ete
exploite dans une logique d'amelioration des capacites des AP. En 1991 le PNVA avait
recrute un expert en organisation paysanne qui avait entame une reflexion plus profonde
pour la conception d'un programme d'appui aux AP. Malheureusement cette initiative a
ete arretee avec la fin du contrat de l'expert. Une dynamique parallele du mouvement
associatif a abouti a la creation de la Cellule Nationale du Conseil des Ruraux (CNCR)
qui est devenu le partenaire incontournable des services agricoles.



36
Suivi-evaluation: Dans 1'ensemble le systeme de suivi evaluation du projet n'a pas
rempli sa mission et n'a pas joue le r6le d'outil de pilotage qui etait attendu de lui. En
effet les tableaux de bords confectionnes pour le suivi etaient complexes et n'ont pas ete
remplis par les agents, il n'y a pas eu d'enquetes legeres a la demande des structures
operationnelles pour leur permettre d'approfondir leur connaissance et leur
comprehension de certaines situations, il n'y a pas eu d'etude d'impact en dehors de
l'etude locale realisee en 1992 dans la communaute rurale de Ndiendieng et l1'valuation
des beneficiaires realisee en 1994. Les rares propositions faites par le suivi-evaluation
n'ont pas ete mises en oeuvre. La tentative de mettre en place a l'interieur des structures
operationnelles des unites de suivi-evaluation s'est soldee par un echec sauf en ce qui
concerne la SAED qui avait deja une unite de facon traditionnelle. Ainsi le suivi-
evaluation est reste centralise et inefficace.
La mission a releve au titre des facteurs ayant influence le projet comme facteurs
positifs i) le bon niveau de base des AVB qui ont eu une formation de base d'agent
technique d'agriculture (ATA) ou d'elevage (ATE),  ii) le financement du projet
recherche Agricole II qui a permis a 1'ISRA d'etre presente dans les zones d'intervention
du programnme, iii) l'existence d'ONGs qualifiees dans les formations relatifs a
l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle, iv) et enfin la structuration des organisations paysannes
en particulier la creation du CNCR qui a permis de mieux impliquer les representants des
producteurs facilitant ainsi leur participation dans le PNVA (comites national et
regionaux de bilan/programmation) et dans la formulation des nouveaux programmes.
Elle a egalement releve les facteurs ayant limite les performances du projet a savoir i) le
montage institutionnel qui a rendu difficile la coordination du programme par la direction
du PNVA, ii) la supervision interne des activites du projet a tous les niveaux de
responsabilite qui n'a pas bien fonctionne en general et est demeuree tres administrative,
iii) le dysfonctionnement des groupes de contact (GC), Eid en grande partie aux modalites
de leur mise en place, iv) l'implication des AVB dans des taches autres que la
vulgarisation notamment ;les taches confides par l'administration publique, v) la gestion
inefficace des fonds a la disposition du projet et la mobilisation tardive des fonds de
contrepartie qui ont eu un impact negatif sur les performances du projet toutes
composantes confondues.
Operations futures
Les enseignements tires de l'execution du PNVA ont permis de mieux d6finir le
cadre d'intervention des futures actions dans le domaine du secteur agricole. En effet, les
problemes rencontres dans la mise en oeuvre du PNVA indiquent de facon claire que la
vulgarisation de themes techniques fait doit etre completee par un ensemble d'autres
actions pour resoudre la question de l'amelioration de la production agricole. C'est ainsi
que la strategie en preparation pr6voit des programmes complementaires qui s'inscrivent
dans le cadre d'une approche int6gree des actions visant a ameliorer la production
agricole et lutter contre la pauvrete de facon durable.



37
Ces programmes sont inclus dans un ensemble de projet de nouvelle generation
dont (i) le Projet des Services Agricoles et d'Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs
(PSAOP) oui l'on prend en compte simultanement les aspects Recherche Agricole et agro-
alimentaire, le Conseil Agricole Rural et I'appui aux OPA, (ii) le Projet de Promotion des
Exportations Agricoles (PPEA) et (iii) le Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales
(PNIR). Au-dela du caractere integre des operations la strategie s'articule autour de la
decentralisation, du partenariat et de l'implication de plus en plus forte des populations
concemres par ces programmes depuis l'identification jusqu'a l'evaluation des resultats.
Les enseignements tires du PNVA ont et bien repris dans le PSAOP qui est un
programme plus vaste et dont un des objectifs majeurs est le renforcement du partenariat
entre les services agricoles et les organisations de producteurs. Le PSAOP envisage la
creation d'une Agence Nationale pour le Conseil Agricole Rural (ANCAR) qui
remplacerait l'ensemble des structures actuels en charge du conseil rural et devrait
permettre de resoudre les problemes structurels, les problemes de gestion financiere, les
problemes de gestion des ressources humaines et les insuffisances techniques releves
dans le cadre du PNVA.



38
APPENDIX 11
RAPPORT DEVALUATION EX-POST DU
PROEiRAMME NATIONAL DE
VULGARISATION AGRICOLE (PNVA)
(RAPPORT DU EOUVERNEMENT)
I - INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre du programme d'ajustement a moyen et long termes 1985/1992 et suite a
I'av&nement de la Nouvelle Politique Agricole, le Gouvernement du Senegal avait
procede a une analyse des services agricoles.
Celle-ci a abouti au constat d'une situation de stagnation voire d'un recul de la
productivit6 decoulant notamment d'un interventionnisme excessif de l'Etat a travers un
systeme d'encadrement dirigiste.
C'est dans ce contexte que les autorites du Senegal ont convenu avec l'IDA de mettre en
oeuvre urne nouvelle strategie de vulgarisation.
Cette demarche qui visait une meilleure prise en compte des besoins des producteurs par
un encadrement approprie 6tait base sur la methode "Formation et Visites"
Une phase-test  de deux 2 (ans) a et  realisee a travers le Programme pilote
d'AAmelioration des Services d'Appui aux Agriculteurs (PAGRI). Suite au succes
enregistre par cette phase-test le Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA)
a ete mis en place suivant l'Accord de Cr6dit N 2108-SE intervenu le 24 Avril 1990
entre le Gouvemement du Senegal et la Banque Mondiale.
L'equipe d'evaluation etait composee de:
- M. Mamadou Lamine Kane (DCEF/MEFP)
- M. Mamadou Sall (CT/MA)
- M. Abdou Diop (MA/DA)
- M. Adama Faye (ISRA)



39
- M. Amadou Cisse (PNVA)
- le coordonnateur du PNVA/DIREL
II- O:BJECTIFS
En reference au rapport d'evaluation N8079-SE du ler Fevrier 1990 etabli par la Banque
Mondiale et relatif au Projet des Services Agricoles, les objectifs ci-apres avaient ete
retenus:
a) la creation d'une capacite de planification, de programmation, de coordination et de
suivi-evaluation des activites de vulgarisation agricole a l'echelon national;
b) le renforcement des Directions de I'Agriculture (DA) et de l'Elevage (DIREL) pour
leur permettre d'assumer progressivement les activites de vulgarisation sur le terrain;
c) l'amelioration des activites de vulgarisation de certaines Societes Regionales de
DOveloppement Rural (Entreprises Parapubliques);
d) le renforcement des associations d'agriculteurs;
e) la creation d'une unite d'analyse de la politique agricole au sein du ministere du
Developpement Rural (Unite de Politique Agricole)
Le but recherche d travers ces objectifs etait d'ameliorer les services de vulgarisation pour
les cultures et l'elevage par:
3 le renforcement des liens entre la Recherche et la Vulgarisation,
3 la formation systematique sur le tas du personnel de vulgarisation a tous les
niveaux,
* la mise en oeuvre minutieuse et le sllivi efficace des activites de vulgarisation,
II - DESCRIPTION DES MOYENS ET DE LA METHODOLOGIE DE
REALISATION DU PROGRAMME
A) les moyens
Le coft du Programme a ete chiffre a 20,2 millions de dollars (soit 6,6 Milliards FCFA)
dont:
- Part IDA                17,1 Millioins de Dollars, soit 5,6 Milliards FCFA
- Part Gouvemement :       3,1 Millions de Dollars, soit 1,0 Milliards FCFA
(1 Dollar = 324 FCFA en 1990, Rapport d'Evaluation)



40
A cela il faut ajouter pour le Gouvernement une contribution en nature constituee par:
* la mise a disposition de locaux;
* l'exondration des droits et taxes A l'importation et autres impots
B) Montage institutionnel et Methodologie
1 - Montage institutionnel
Le projet plac6 actuellement sous la tutelle du Ministere charge de l'Agriculture
comprend:
* un Comite Directeur consultatif
* une cellule de gestion et de coordination au niveau national
* des agences d'execution representees par la Direction de l'Agriculture, la Direction
de l'Elevage, la SAED, la SODEVA et l'ISRA
La Cellule est animee par un Directeur et comprend une unite administrative et financiere
et quatre unites techniques : Recherche/Developpement, Vulgarisation, Formation et
Suivi/Evaluation.
Pour les agences d'execution en dehors de l'ISRA, l'organisation est la suivante : une
unite de coordination et d'appui au niveau national, un coordonateur au niveau regional,
un superviseur au niveau departemental et des agents de vulgarisation de base (AVB)
travaillant avec des groupes de contact au niveau communaute rurale.
Le dispositif regional est appuye par un pouls de Techniciens Specialises intervenant a
tous les niveaux d'activit6s (Formation, Recherche/Developpement et Vulgarisation).
Pour realiser les activites du Projet, la Cellule de gestion et de coordination a etabli des
protocoles d'accord avec les agences d'execution susvisees.
Ces documents definissent les responsabilites de chaque partie pour 1'execution de
programmes annuels acceptes d'accord parties.
2 - La m6thodologie de mise en oeuvre
Elle consiste en l'application de la methode "formation et visites" qui repose
essentiellement sur les principes fondamentaux suivants:
. Visites regulieres des exploitations des producteurs sur la base d'un calendrier
strict;



41
* Formation systematique des agents du dispositif a tous les niveaux;
* Fonnation des producteurs;
* Etablissement et /ou renforcement die liens entre Recherche et Vulgarisation.
Le champ d'intervention se limite au transfert de technologie selon le schema suivant:
tests en Recherche/Developpement, Demonstration et Diffusion
IV - RESULTATS ENREGISTRES
A) Encadrement et Couverture Zonale
Le dispositif d'encadrement a atteint 522 agents sur les 637 prevus soit un taux de
realisation de 82 %. Sur les 13254 villages que compte le Senegal, le Programme en a
touche 3138 soit 24 %.
S'agissant des exploitations, seulement 116000 ont ete touchees sur un objectif de
327000 soit 35 %.
Cependant, les actions du PNVA ont concerne toutes les r6gions de maniere generaLe.
En 1996, six mille groupes de contact ont ete recenses comptant environ cent vingt mille
membres.
Le PNVA a par ailleurs travaille avec des groupements de producteurs juridiquement
organises.
B) Formation
La formation qui est un des piliers du systeme de vulgarisation a concerne l'ensemble du
dispositif et les producteurs de maniere generale. Les themes de formation ont ete
identifies a partir d'enquetes diagnostiq[ues. La formation des producteurs a porte sur la
maltrise des themes techniques et sur l'alphabetisation.
Ainsi, 1115 centres totalisant 30904 auditeurs dont 45 % de femmes ont e ouverts. 30%
de ceux-ci sont devenus des formateurs dans des organisations de producteurs et des
ONG.
Concemant les formations de quinzaine, 480 ateliers ont e  tenus sur 1589 prevus soit
30 % de reaLisation. La situation se presente comme suit pour les differentes structures:
DA (28 %), DIREL (57 %) ; SAED (24 %); SODEVA (33 %).
Les Ateliers Mensuels de Revue de Technologie (AMRT) ont concerne les TS de la DA,
de la DIREL et dans une moindre mesure ceux de la SAED. Par rapport aux previsions, le



42
niveau de realisation pour les deux premieres Structures est le suivant: 41 % pour la DA
et 64 % pour la DIREL.
C) Vulgarisation
Concemant ce volet, 120 themes touchant 1'ensemble des speculations ont ete retenus en
vue de leur vulgarisation. Pour ce faire, des parcelles et des unites de demonstration au
nombre de 131858 ont ete mises en place.
Les demonstrations ont et conduites par les Agents d'Encadrement de Base en rapport
avec les Producteurs volontaires membres des Groupes de Contact. A cette occasion, des
visites de quinzaine ont ete effectuees par les AVB.
Sur les 22 visites prevues par an et par groupe de contact, en moyenne 7 ont et realisees
soit une frbquence de 32 %.
Au total 84 visites organisees ont et effectuees sur une prevision de 225 soit 37 %. Une
participation moyenne de 24 producteurs par visite a ete obtenue.
D) Recherche-Developpement
Les activites de ce Volet ont demarre en 1991. Entre 1991 et 1996, 85 Themes de
Recherche-D6veloppement ont ete testes. Ces themes couvrent les champs suivants:
* Introduction de materiel vegetal ameliore;
* Itin6raires techniques;
* Techniques d'amnlioration du betail;
* Fertilisation et conservation des sols.
Les taux de passage de themes R/D en vulgarisation ont varie de 25 a 75 % selon les
zones agro-ecologiques et les annees.
E) Suivi-Evaluation
Durant toute la premiere phase du PNVA (1990-1994), les activites de S/E reposaient
essentiellement sur la participation des structures operationnelles dans la collecte et
1'exploitation des informations sur le suivi des activites.
Les lacunes constatees dans le domaine de la collecte et de la remontee des donnees par
les structures operationnelles ont induit la mise en place en 1994, d'un dispositif
d'enqueteurs dont les activites ont ete orientees sur les evaluations qualitatives. C'est
ainsi qu'un certain nombre d'etudes ont ete realisees dont la plus importante est
l'evaluation par les beneficiaires. Les autres etudes ont port6 soit sur des questions
ponctuelles, soit sur des aspects exploratoires.



43
La quantification des effets-impacts, a ete une question permanente durant ce projet ; en
effet autant la question de savoir combien ce projet a rapporte est valable, autant les
methodes connues sont soit trop imprecises (extrapolation a partir des taux d'adoption et
des productions additionnelles) ou trop lourdes a mettre en oeuvre (etude du Pr Evenson
sur le Kenya et le Burkina Faso).
En tout etat de cause, il est necessaire qu'une reflexion large soit menee sur cette question
pour au moins preciser les possibilites et les limites d'un tel exercice au plan de la
demarche scientifique.
COMMENTAIRES
II est difficile d'interpreter ces resultats en terme d'impact sur les performances de
l'agriculture senegalaise pour la periode consideree.
D'ailleurs, les objectifs majeurs du Programme visaient essentiellement I'amrlioration
des services de vulgarisation agricole qui etaient dans une quasi-lethargie avec la mise en
oeuvre de la Nouvelle Politique Agricole (NPA).
Sous cet angle, 1'evaluation du PNVA fait ressortir d'importants acquis unanimement
reconnus par 1'ensemble des partenaires au programme.
L'amelioration des connaissances des agents a tous les niveaux, le renforcement de leur
mobilite donc le rapprochement avec les producteurs, le renforcement progressif des liens
avec la recherche en constituent une illustration.
Le programme a egalement participe au niveau national a l'edification d'un partenariat A
trois poles: recherche-vulgarisation-prodlucteurs.
Toutefois, l'evaluation revele de nombreuses difficultes et faiblesses dont l'explication se
situe a cinq niveaux:
- au niveau de l'evaluation des objectifs
- au niveau du montage institutionnel
- au niveau de la methodologie
- au niveau du deroulement du Programme
- au niveau de la gestion administrative et financiere



44
Evaluation des objectifs
Cette evaluation concerne la pertinence, la precision et la faisabifite des objectifs.
Pertinence des objectifs
A la lumiere du contexte qui prevalait avec I'avenement de la NPA (1984) et la
mise en oeuvre du Programme d'Ajustement a moyen et long termes (1985 - 1992) les
objectifs assignes au Programme etaient pertinents.
En effet, le desengagement de l'Etat qui en a resulte prevoyait le deperissement
des SRDR alors que les services techniques de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage n'avaient pas
d'experience de vulgarisation.
Par ailleurs, les liens Recherche-Vulgarisation etaient inorganises.
Enfin avec la disparition du programme agricole, les associations de producteurs
ne ben6ficiaient plus de 1'encadrement necessaire pour mener a bien leurs activites.
Pnrcision des objectifs
Les objectifs relatifs a l'am6lioration des services de vulgarisation agricole 6taient
precis parce que les cibles etaient bien identifiees. Il s'agissait en effet des services de la
DA et de la DIREL aussi bien au niveau national qu'aux echelons locaux. Celui relatif a
l'etablissement et au renforcement des liens Recherche - Vulgarisation etait egalement
precis.
En revanche, l'objectif renforcement des associations de producteurs etait vague,
les cibles n'etant pas identifiees de facon precise.
De plus, les modalites pratiques de mise en oeuvre n'etaient pas clairement
definies.
Faisabilite des objectifs
Au regard de la duree prevue pour le programme (4 ans), les objectifs s'averaient
difficilement realisables en raison de la quasi-lthargie dans laquelle etaient plonges les
services techniques et de l'absence d'organisation des associations de producteurs.
Montage institutionnel
Les dysfonctionnements du programme sont en partie Uies:
- a la multiplicite des tutelles (absence de ligne unique de commande)



45
- au cumul des taches du PNVA avec celles des structures d'execution.
II est aussi deplorable que les deux principales structures operationnelles que sont
la DA et la DIREL n'ont pas pris part a la phase-test qui a ete conduite avec les societes
de developpement (SODEVA, SAED et SOMIVAC).
Methodologie
Certains outils utilises dans le cadre de la methode T & V comme le groupe de
contact n'etaient pas adaptes a toutes les situations (perimetres irrigues, elevages
extensif). Toutefois, la rigueur qu'exige son application constitue un apport positif a la
demarche du vulgarisateur (organisation du travail, formation continue, liaison R/D).
La methode accorde moins d'importance aux aspects diagnostic et Suivi/Evaluation.
Aucune approche n'est en effet preconisee pour ces aspects.
Mise ne oeuvre et deroulement du Programme
Les structures operationnelles qui ont participe a la phase-test: DERBAC, SAED,
SODEVA ont ete releguees au second plan durant la phase d'execution du PNVA.
L'experience capitalisee au niveau de ces structures durant le test n'a pas e bien utilisee.
Les structures operationnelles ont integre progressivement le Programme.
Le dispositif d'enqu8teurs permanents n'a e  mis en place qu'en 1994, la derniere annie
de la premiere phase ; ainsi durant toute la premiere phase, il n'a pas e  possible de
disposer d'un personnel de terrain pour les enquetes.
Le changement de parite du franc CFA intervenu en Janvier 1994 a entrame
l'augmentation notable des ressources financieres mises a la disposition du projet. Ceci a
permis de proceder a trois prolongations annuelles (1995, 1996, 1997). Ce systeme de
prolongations a repetition n'a pas permis de mettre en oeuvre des programmes annuels
coh6rents et equilibres.
En 1996, il a e  adopte une nouvelle demarche de recentrage des programmes de
vulgarisation et recherche-developpemenit. La selection d'un nombre reduit de themes
techniques pertinents et la mise en oeuvre d'une demarche objective de fixation des
objectifs a permis d'ameliorer 1'execution des actions de terrain.
Gestion administrative et fmanciMre
Les ressources financieres bien que suffisantes ne parvenaient pas a temps aux agences
d'execution a la base.



46
En effet, la gestion des fonds etait centralisee au nivaux de la cellule et la realimentation
de la caisse d'avance de l'unite de gestion obeissait A des modalites qui rendaient
difficiles la mise A disposition et la justification des fonds.
ENSEIGNEMENTS
Sur ce point, les enseignements qu'on peut tirer de l'execution du PNVA ont trait aux
aspects suivants
1) Responsabilite du Gouvernement
Le montage institutionnel mis en place par le Gouvemement s'est avere inefficace A cause
de la dispersion des centres de decision auxquels obeissaient les agents de terrain.
2) Responsabilite du Bailleur defonds
- Vu le contexte de l'epoque (NPP, PAMLY) l'aspect irr6aliste des objectifs ne devait pas
echapper au bailleur de fonds. C'est peut etre la raison pour laquelle il n'y a pas eu la
definition d'indicateurs precis de performance qui aurait facilite l'evaluation ex-post.
- la saisonnalite des activites agricoles fait qu'aucun retard dans le calendrier ne peut etre
rattrape. Or, les mecanismes de financement ont manque de souplesse.
- les missions de supervision effectuees par la Banque Mondiale ont ete irregulieres
surtout dans les dernieres annees du Projet et les recommandations en direction de la
Banque faites A ces occasions n'ont pas ete suivies d'effets.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1) Sur la mithodologie
Le T& V presente sans doute des aspects positifs (formation, organisation, liaison
producteurs-vulgarisateurs-chercheurs).
En presentant ces aspects dans la future Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural, il
faudra mieux l'assimiler pour l'adapter A la realite sociale du monde rural.
2) le montage institutionnel
Sur ce point, il est recommande que la structure d'apres PNVA devra etre diversifiee mais
unifiee.



47
3) Partenariat
Les initiatives prises avec le PNVA doivent atre consolidees et e1argies en vue de
renforcer les liens de cooperation et partenariat entre les differents acteurs.
4) Gestion desfonds
Les mecanismes de gestion doivent d'abord permettre de consolider le caract&e de ligne
de commande unique du systeme, etre suiffisamment souples pour eviter tous les blocages
lids a la trop grande centralisation des moyens.
5) Mesures d'accompagnement
II est recommande de creer un environnement favorable a l'acces des financements
adequats, suffisants et adaptes pour que les producteurs puissent mettre en oeuvre les
activit6s propices a la relance de la production agricole.
L'Etat devra par ailleurs veiller a la coherence et a la synergie des interventions pour que
tous les acteurs soient co-responsables de la realisation des objectifs retenus.



48
RAPPORT D'ENVALUATION EXPOST DU
UNITE DE POLMQUE AGRICOLE (UPA)
(RAPPORT DU E(OUERNiEMENT)
I.    ENONCE DES OBJECTIFS
La partie (E) de l'accord de credit n 2108-SE (projet de services agricoles) entre la
Republique du Senegal et l'Association Internationale de Developpement en date du 24
Avril 1990 qui a permnis de creer l'Unite de Politique Agricole (UPA) fixe les objectifs de
cette structure comme suit:
* renforcer la capacite analytique du Ministere du Developpement Rural (devenue
Ministere de l'Agriculture en Juin 1993) en matiere de formulation, d'evaluation de
politiques de developpement rural, d'evaluation de projets, de suivi des performances
d'execution de projets et la fourniture de materiel vehicules et I'appui en formation.
Actuellement la principale r6ference relative a la definition du projet UPA est donc cet
accord (lettre B.M du 5 novembre 1990).
II.   RESULTATS OBTENUS PAR RAPPORT AUX OBJECTIFS FIXES PAR
L'ACCORD
1. Renforcer la capacite analytique du Ministere du Developpement en matiere de
formulation d'evaluation de politiques de d6veloppement rural.
- outils deformulation et d'evaluation des politiques criis par l'UPA
- Banque de donnees statistiques
- Banque d'informations strat6giques
- produits r&alises par l'UPA
- Declaration de Politique de Developpement Agricole, Juin 1994



49
- Lettre de Politique de Developpement Aigricole, Avril 1995
- Rapport sur la situation de la reforme de la politique du riz au Senegal, fevrier 1995
- Analyse du mecanisme de protection du riz local, Octobre 1995
- Expansion du systeme d'informations sur le riz de l'Etat senegalais, Decembre 1995
- Synthese des etudes sur la consommation du riz au Senegal, Mai 1996
- Analyse des caracteristiques qualitatives de la demande en riz et cereales locales en
Casamance, Juillet 1996
- Caracteristiques qualitatives de la demande de riz et autres cereales locales au
Senegal, Septembre 1996
- Etude relative a l'impact de la liberalisation sur les couits d'importation du riz au
Senegal, Novembre 1996
- Plan d'actions foncier du Senegal, Octobre 1996
- Etude des prix et couits dans la filiere intrants destines a la production de riz, Janvier
1997
- Programme de reforme de la politique dLu riz au Senegal, Janvier 1997
- Programme d'investissement du secteur agricole 1995-2000
- Etude de la relance du sous-secteur de l'elevage par la liberalisation et la privatisation.
Commentaires
les documents de politique (DPDA, LPDA, Mecanismes de protection des filieres,
programmes d'investissements) engageant la responsabilite de l'Etat ont ete faits par
1'UPA. Les analyses des mecanismes elL des impacts des politiques ont ete realises par
1'UPA avec l'appui d'une vision exterieure (cabinet prive ou expertise intemationale)
pour un souci d'objectivite.
2. Evaluation de projets, de suivi des performances d'execution de projets
outils utilises par l'UPA:
- pour l'evaluation:
* par methode cofit/benefice
* par methode des effets
* par m6thode prix de reference
- pour le suivi:
* une banque informatisee de suivi des projets BISSAPE comprenant 3 volets:
> projets en cours
> projets prioritaires du PISA, Juin 1997
= projets en gestation, Juillet 1995
* un tableau de bord periodique,



50
* une note de conjoncture periodique
* le programme d'activites des structures du Ministere de l'Agriculture
* le tableau de bord de fin de trimestre
* la note de synthese
produits rnalise's
- preparation et evaluation du Projet d'Organisation et de Gestion Villageoise, Octobre
1992
- rapport de preparation du Programme Special de Securite Alimentaire
- rapport evaluation A mi-parcours PNVA, Decembre 1992
- rapport evaluation 1 phase PNVA 1990-95, Fevrier 1996
- Projet de Restructuration de l'UPA, Decembre 1994
- restructuration de l'Unite de Politique Agricole, Juin 1996
- evaluation ex ante du PRODAM
- evaluation ex ante du PROMER
- lettres de mission SAED, SODAGRI, SODEFITEX
- rapport de suivi des campagnes agricoles
- participation A la procedure de s6lection des projets au niveau du Ministere de
l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan lors des conferences budgetaires
Commentaires
l'UPA a concu ses propres outils de suivi et 1'ensemble de son personnel technique a ete
form6 aux methodes d'evaluation ci-dessus decrites.
Le suivi des projets et programmes souffre neanmoins de certaines faiblesses dans la
collecte de l'information que l'UPA n'a pas les moyens d'aller chercher par des missions
de terrain. Les seules informations transmises a 1'UPA par les structures a suivre peuvent
ne pas etre fiables.
3. appui en formation
Un perfectionnement du profil des cadres par rapport aux missions qui leur sont
respectivement imparties sur la base d'une evaluation individuelle a e  debutee dans le
cadre du programme d'assistance technique qui a accompagne l'UPA de 1992 a 1995.
Ainsi un programme de formation dans des universites amnricaines, francaises et au
niveau local a permis de perfectionner les competences de la structure en analyse et
evaluation 6conomique, financiere et en informatique.
III. FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE L'EFFICACITE DU PROJET
des diffe'rences considerables de traitement au point de vue salaire



51
l'UPA est une structure regroupant un personnel constitue de fonctionnaires a hauteur de
29 % et de contractuels a hauteur de 71 % avec des differences considerables de
traitement au point de vue salaire, bien qu'assujettis aux memes efforts et aux memes
exigences en matiere de qualite.
des difficultis de maintenir les cadres techniques
La structure a souffert du depart de certains cadres notamment fonctionnaires attires par
des projets au niveau desquels ils trouvent une meilleure remuneration.
1'efficaciti opirationnelle de I'Unite a ete handicapie par des problemes externes et
internes.
I1 s'agit notamment:
- des deficits de competences dans certains domaines (mnacro-economie, micro-economie,
comptabilite nationale,...),
- de la predominance dans l'activite quotidienne des taches "de vie courante" qui limitent
encore trop les activites de reflexion strat6gique a long terme,
- l'extreme limitation des moyens rnateriels et la mauvaise qualit6 des conditions de
travail jusqu'en Decembre 1995 (bureaux exigus, manque d'ordinateurs operationnels,
lignes telephoniques insuffisantes, dLifficultes financieres pour l'organisation des
deplacements n6cessaires, ...).
l'ouverture de l'UPA sur l'exterieur reste encore trop limit6e:
Il s'agit a la fois d'une insuffisance "liaison terrain" (communication incertaine et
episodique avec les structures et les projets operant dans le domaine et avec les operateurs
directs), mais egalement d'une insuffisante liaison avec l'economie mondiale).
IV. DURABILITE DU PROJET
La durabilite de l'UPA releve du maintien dans cette structure d'un personnel technique
dote d'une bonne experience d'utilisation des outils d'evaluation, de programmation, de
planification et d'elaboration de documents de strategie et de politique. Cela necessite
une harrnonisation des formes de r6mundration, un renforcement de la structure par un
recrutement de macro-economistes et d'analystes financiers.
V.  PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE
La Banque n'a pas mene les missions de suivi-evaluation requises tout le long de la mise
en oeuvre du projet. Ainsi elle n'a pas s uivi de pres l'evolution de l'UPA et notamment
les solutions apportees aux difficultes que rencontre la structure.



52
VI. PERFORMANCES DU GOUVERNEMENT
L'Etat a mis a la disposition de l'UPA un fonds de contrepartie dont le montant de 484
000 000 FCFA est ainsi reparti:
- de 1991 a 1995:    364 000 000 FCFA
- en 1996:          80 000 000 FCFA
- en 1997:          40 000 000 FCFA
VII. OPERATIONS FUTURES
L'importance du r6le de l'UPA dans la definition, le suivi et l'evaluation des politiques et
strategies agricoles justifie le fait que l'effort d'appui a son organisation et a son
fonctionnement soit poursuivi et amplifie.
Les principaux objectifs pour l'UPA pourraient 8tre:
ke maintien des acquis et l'amelioration de l'operationnalite de l'UPA
La poursuite de cet objectif passe notamment par la poursuite des efforts men6s en
mati&re d'organisation et d'amelioration des methodes et des outils de travail
- par la restructuration de l'UPA dans le cadre de la reorganisation globale des services
agricoles qui permettra:
- par une ouverture "sur le terrain" notamment pour un suivi plus pr6cis et plus
dynamique des projets et structures, et une decentralisation de la planification agricole.
Une UPA plus ouverte sur l'analyse du marche international
- par une ouverture sur le marche international, qui suppose une veille permanente et les
moyens correspondants pour suivre les incidences des fluctuations des cours mondiaux
sur la structure des prix des produits agricoles
- par le renforcement de la structure par de nouvelles competences et la poursuite des
actions de formation et des efforts en matiere d'echange avec d'autres structures exercant
des activites similaires tant au niveau national qu'au niveau international
- l'amelioration de la communication.
VIII. LECONS TIREES DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
En conclusion, on peut dire que 1'UPA constitue une experience inedite dans
I'administration senegalaise. Elle a fait amplement la demonstration de son utilite dans le



53
dispositif plus vaste du Ministere de l'Agriculture et a remplis des missions importantes
qui ont marque le secteur agricole ces 5 dernieres annees. II a occupe une position
centrale dans les mecanismes de decision.
II constitue actuellement une structure A m8me de remplir ses missions de facon
relativement satisfaisante, m8me si des apports sont n6cessaires pour l'ameliorer.
II demeure un acquis que l'UPA est ine structure regroupant des cadres notamment
techniques formes A la planification, A l'6valuation technique, economique et financiere
des projets et programmes et A l'utilisation de divers outils informatiques.
Neammoins pour ameliorer les performances de cette structure qui a fait des emules au
Senegal, au Mali, en Mauritanie, en Cote d'Ivoire, il est necessaire de retenir dans les
enseignements de son deroulement, la nmcessite d'y adjoindre des macro-economistes et
des analystes financiers qui completeront l'equipe. Les outils d'analyse et d'evaluation
utilises par l'UPA ont demontre que seule l'association de techniciens du developpement
rural, d'economistes et de financiers constitue la voie de l'amelioration et de perfection
des travaux de 1'UPA.



54
Andrea M. Vhsquez
P:\scncgal\ag\agserv\c\iciune3.doc
06112/98 10:14 AM



MAP SECTON



tr , . ,- / ~~~~~~~~~I I 
ti4  fbi5maphabtJkenoieparsd.y                /         16                     M   A   U I  R   I  T   A   N    I  A                                  sENEGAL
te, thef co-nq-nsaoc l the                                                                                                           AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
rnllae,h elhd is -CW-.hey to, the
PROJECT AREA  1990 AND  EXECUTING  AGENCIES
ned the sa1Teterh41Ztlh$lZrae
_Od hWeotu, r-d-er9 :h/le                                                                                                     PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
eart  The eH hao nhk nasd           ,                                                                                      AGRICOLE (PNVA) -ZONE  D'INTERVENTION  1990 DU
-y      tah@ DIedart                                                                                                                   PNVA  ET AGENCES D'EXECUTION
et ahy teeavy er sh'y 
tech tsossheahenhorardErobneeo  ; ,  \  F         />        \        s                   _  /                                                                     PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
fAa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0LIMITES DES ZONES DU PNVA
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
DIRECTION DE L'AGRICULTLIRE
IS,                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCK DEPARTMENT
t Lmgn                                             Mat                                DIRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTIO  DE L'ELEVAGE
o   2 0    0   h          I t                                                                                                                               1      SODEVA
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZSAED
0C0e , N                                                                                                                                                        SODEFITEX
RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EBC'
A   R IV    AERE  I NVErl ITTENT
CAPITA E
REGION C AP1TALS        t}                                              r  r                       _                        5asX
i)CHEF-LIEU DE REGION    ena ,     
   CHEAF-LIEUEMfED CEPARTEMENT  ZIG UINCHOR                          K--                                                        NO0KBA.  
__-  REGION BO1NDARESD esBt o              g3 nonr           Sdtt0(                    Id                                                   %> 
EIMITES DE REGION'IOU
____ INTERNATIONAL 30UNDARIES 1(1-./
C'E A,                             OG.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssas    -
F.RONTIERES INTERNATIONAIIES    - ,  -) -Y       \     -~    n- Kdf_
r_ : : 4 . ~~~Ztquteclor                                GUiNE             WbI~A                                     .                                  It:lIt1 X~ 
12                         CAP StIttRlNI    z '   . \    
o   116   GUINEb  - BISS,vU 114ofivs G U~~~-t                                   ~                                                      I  N    E A10i 
'0                                                        C



~~~  idoo~~~~~~~p~~~poodb,  I                                                               -A U     1T     N I                                  S ENE GA L
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
~~~~oo~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT AREA  1993 AND  EXECUTING  AGENCIES
#~~~~~0d00d ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
0#1 'oop do  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oo too ~~~~~~~AGRICOLE (PNVA) -ZONE  D'INTERVENTION  1993 DU
~~~fl of TOo ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~PNVA  ET AGENCES  D'EXECUTION
$~~~~~~oO Oooodaoo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DES ZONES DU PNVA
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
17DIRECTION DE LAGRICULTURE
LIVESTOCK DEPARTMENT
V0DIRECTION DE L'ELEVAGE
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ apo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~SE
SODEFITEX     r
DERBAC 
*Thjes      D"IOURBIELo
-                      ," 9~~~~~~~~~~~'Diour,bel                                      ____________________________
~1  Nioroo0,
~~~ ~~~~~QL*S~~~~~~~~~~~ OEAtJX~~~~~                                                               Ac0                              DX
M     TMl?N   TEii
C?0.UWOf EP<RTEENT      ZIGUINICHOR         /
____ INT~~~~~RNATIONAI. BOUINENBDARGIES                                                                                                                               2                             0



IBRD 21786
ALGERIA              TNr.  RHr,    o.I.I'-                                                                                                                I.                  SE  NE  GA            L
MAURITANIA  PMACI                                                                                                          M AUR I TA N I A                                   AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SENETOAL>` .                  N                                                                             Nyong                                                        PROGRAMME NATIONALE DE VULGARISATION
E SA~                                                                     ..--                                                          I\AGR~ICOLERI  (PNVA)
_GWE         'II-            5
ItR~  /  6            RLLARRI*1                                                                                                                                                      PRINCIPAL RESEARCH CENTERS            LIMIT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ZONES
LI.RlDA  LEo-,1   )"                                                                                                                                                              CENRE  DE RECHER HE  PRINCIPAL    -LIM)TES DES REGIONS DE PROGRAMME
SERLIR  .A.,                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH CENTERS  1CASAHINCE
.1  I,                                                                                                V    IS> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              CENTRES DE RECHERCHET                 DUD GUEST~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENRE D RCHRCE  Lf OES
RESEARCH STATIONS                  2SENEGAL RIVER
STATJONES ET PAPEM                   PLEUVE
TN, SIRE NOR ~~~~~~~~~~~..r ESRESRA Op                                                              /             2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           POLNTSDESSAL                          LITORALfNS  'ESALLITPA
&  AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTERS       4  NIAYES
SRRMIRROCR,MR. Hr VO                                                                                                           ..,.           CENTRES DE PORMATION AGRICOLE         NIATES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CGNTESDE ORATIN  GRIOL  NJYE
ORRARSO RrM5rIRREM~~~~~~~~~~~~I T~~~rIRrr.                                                                                                                              5 NORTH AND CENTER GROUNDNUT RASINOR   AN   CETERGRONDNT BSI
TI,.  GA                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORD ET CENTRE DV DASSIN ARACHIDIER
IRS - SRR AS SAL RSH.I. OH SM                                                                                                                                             EASTERN SENEGAL AND UPPER CASHMANCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESTEN SNEAL ND  PPR CSAMNC
ERrS ALEIR ALAS Malt mr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the  N                                                                                                                     6 DENEVAL ORIENTAL~~~~~~~~~SENGA OtETA
F- G-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SINE SALOUM
A-b-    M. Iw t..                                                                      8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CENTRE ST SED DU BASSIN ARACHIDIER
ERAO,MMIRflI Ar RAINRIRIrCO E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 .~~~S)                                 STLVO-PASTORALE ZONE SYVOPASORLE CN
5                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONE SYLVO-PASTORALE
DSAKA~                                    b.JL..           IOU EEL    2
-P-eo- ~~~~~~~~~~~~IM A LI
RAILOAD!S IN  LL-E.                     TH-
CIR0WEAR  D PER MCEE                                      
13 SS DEPARTMENT CAPRTALs     3                                                                                                                                         .KL    KDA       -O L
REGION CAPrIALS 
MPE-EML DR REGION 
CACALTA
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                            KdI~eRduAR-
LUMRITES DE DEPIARTEMRENT       -  
REDION  RESENDARIES,pR~ISIC
EURTES DR REGON           oARM-R.,Y         r                               ..
--.INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                tooM..GUINEA                                                                      BISSAU                                                                  1.*-            .
ERONTIERED INTERNATIONALES    'r-                                                                                                                                                   G  UI N  EA
AUGUST 1989



rsewtPtBsshtoheoetss.est~~~~~~~~                    M       A   UR   I  TA          N     IA                          SE N EGA L
the                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
asptaetstsreahs.sat Fre4550                                                         ~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA 1990 AND EXECUTING  AGENCIES
sat tee reap sat set teptt sat ttte                                                    ~~~PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
htersshsraat Patorere Ceresrahert                                                   ~~~~~AGRICOLE (PNVA) -ZONE D'INTERVENTION  1990 DU
Shy )5d5h05t 55 hO ISgOt 0t45Pt                                                             ~~~~~~~PNVA ET AGENCES D'EXECUT ON
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
0                                           LIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AITES DES ZONES DUJ PNVA
~jAGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
DIRECTION DE L'AGRICULTURE
LIVESTOCK DEPARTMENT
met                    ~~~~~~~DIRECT/ON DE L'ELEVAGE
40   ~~~~~~~~~~~R  66  60 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SODEVA
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IISAEDr
Kebem~~~~~~~~~~,i   ilSODEF/TEX 
LiiDERRAC                       N
DlIOURBELo- /
a \             ~~~~~~~~~Diour,bel
~~ COURS 0EA LIX0,                   Kolc          1<fte 
NATIONAL CAPITAL ~   ~        K                    -A     C 
REGION   CAPITALS ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       .00mbcond
o CHEF-LIEU DE REGlO~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~T                                                           UN     
o DEPARTMENT CAP/TALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~win.,                                                     No
CHEF-IEU E OEARTE4ENT ZIGUJINCHOR                                                                                OLO KTB
10  GUINEA             BISSKU                    4(.                                                  2
55                                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G UIN E A,



t ,:   ,,     ;: ,. ::: r   :    :       ,.14
'TIM map Me been P,ePdl* bySE                                                                                                                 GA
ti zT,3 J : j i6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M    A  U  R  I T  A   N   I  A                                                     S E N E G A L
".,;, qsrt.'                                                                                                              AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT-
'. Pod".                                                                                                          PROJECT AREA 1993 AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
ro,:  wo :                                               q                                                    j/  x-7>gPROGRAMME NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION
M Oi'5 Mir~=,*db     ::   :: ;,:j/   J- ,                                              .>      _ WM             AGRICOLE (PNVA)-ZONE D'INTERVENTION  1993 DU
PNVA ET AGE-NCES D'EXECUTION
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DES ZONES DU PNVA
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
DIRECTION DE LAGRICULTURE
LIVESTOCK DEPARTMENT
-, o   0  .  -*,0  s:,>7lKA\O ,- icca(2
S; ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEC/0p  2,TImzudaCO VN DE LEVA GE
*  RIIOMR?ER$                                                                    /                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SODEFITEX 
OKebem                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DERBAC 
CHFU  0E?*S, REGION   >fiX+ D I 0 U          0
o  OtPARTMENT CAJ~ITAk~          K                   K~A       
_OU                                                                                                     T  A  M             0 '  U   6        N  D AA    ,AU1'stJ           %    2
INT T-UNI                           H .  E      G.nI
C"LIMES, DE WrEGON
HAI~OT~ES ONTEEGAC1NNALEBig
C.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J



IBRD 21786
' ALGERIA               T. N-okoh,tp      6                                       I                                                                                                      S  E N  E G   A L
HAUEISANIA IIALI                                                                                       *P.d.,                    M         ANIAAGRICULTURAL SERVICESPRJC
SEN(G                                                                -~MAI                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECTAN I
S EN_.?~ANIGERR'                                                                                         'g                                                              PROGRAMME NATIONALE DE VUILGARISATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T1 'g'E~ ~                                                                                                                                                          AGRICOLE   (PNVA)
'     c6re iII NRICIPL ESERA  CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIMIT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ZONES:
VISA'                                                                                                                                   -                          PRINCIPAL    -   LIMITFS DES REGIONS UT PROGRAMME~~~~~~~~~~~~CE    E D  RCHRCESPRNCPA  LMfESDE RGINSOfPRGUME
6IS61RI61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            - ~~~~~~~~EEARRC H                       1CASAMIANCE
-11-    07-                                                                                 /2 I-M                                                                                               CENTRES DF RCECHES                      SUD OUEST
0IAV6TL                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH STATIONS  2  SENEGAL RIVER
ASTATIONES ET PAPEM                       PIELUVE
61561616610 hAS 56161, p,5E66161d Dy                                                                                                                2 ~~~~~IF               13LOCATIONS OF TRIALS                     3  COAST
6POINTS D'ESSOAL                                LITORAL
I   AAGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTERS           4  NIAYES
,.ARESMLSS61OASOA    6161                                                                                                          -  s..            CENTRES ER FORMATION ASRICOLE           NIAYES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CETRE DEFOMATON  GRCOL  NIYE
M15101..A TMl 61-666                                             UGA                                                                                                                                                                       5 NORTH ANT CENTER GROUNDNUT BASIN
61~~~~~~~~~ ~~NORD FT CENTRE DU BASSIN ARACHIDIER
dl NE 6R 660  M.01S                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EASTERN SENEGAL ANT UPPER CASAMANCE
p6106160661616116066106616106161   'S                                                                                               '-'                                            SENEGAL ORIENTAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEGL  RIETA
* LEASAIRA 0616161161661161661 61  6                                                                                                                                            -, SINE SALOUM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INESAOU
610,666.616Y _'1016610166rNCENTRE FT SUD DU BASSIN ARACHIDIER
.,,d - -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .'. -     .1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYLVO-PASTORALE   ZONE
4  5                                                                                                                                                8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONE SYLVO-PASTORALE
Sh.,~~~~go              *A6kh       .O                                                                                                                                                                                          4        o      B       g
NS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
RALA ADK!- -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
KACi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DEPARTMENT SOUNDARIRS  0  ~ Id.L                                                                                                                                                              KR60A5-0-
RARETES DR DEPARTRMENT  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  D~~~~A*616    IGUINCHO~~~M  AL 
PRONYETRS INTRRATIONARS               T~-                                                                  GUN A  ESA
INTERNATINAL  ONDAEIR                 G         A    M    B                                                                                                                                   GUINE
It  A     IToO/6161A61                  IS'                                       II~~~~~                                   It                                         II'                  (6~
RAILIOA.~~~~~~~~~~~  - - - - - - . . . . . .                     VI, i g., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~AUUS  18



