Page  1
                                       November 5, 1990
Ministere de L'Economie et des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
B.P. 6017
Dakar
Senegal
     RE: Credit No. 2108 SE (Agricultural Services Project)
Excellency:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement, dated April, 24,
1990 (Agricultural Services Project) between the Republic of Senegal
and the International Development Association and to your telex,
dated October 10, 1990, requesting certain modifications in such
agreement.
     We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to
your proposals and proposes the following amendments to the
agreement:
1.   "Special Accounts", "Special Account A" and "Special Account
B" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement Special Account A and Special Account B collectively
referred to as Special Accounts. .
2.   At the end of Section 1.02 new definition be added to read as
follows:
"         (n) "UPA" means the Unite de Politique Azricole,
          established by Arrete dated May 16, 1990 within MDR.
3.   Section 2.02 (b) be substituted by the following paragraph:
          "2.02 (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
          Project, open and maintain in FCFA two special accounts
          (Special Account A, Special Account B) in a commercial
          bank or in commercial banks on terms and conditions
          satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
          payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in
          accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
          Agreement."
4.   The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 be amended to
read as set forth in Annex I to this letter.
5.   Part E of Schedule 2 to the Agreement be substituted by the
following paragraph:
          "Part E. Ministry of Rural Development:
          Strengthening of the analytical capacity of UPA in the
          formulation and evaluation of rural development
          policies, project appraisal and performance monitoring
          of project execution, provision of training equipment
          and vehicles therefor and rehabilitation of office space
          of UPA."
6.   Schedule 4 be replaced by Annex II to this letter.
     Could you indicate your agreement to these amendments by
signing the enclosed copy of this letter. and returning it to us.
Upon receipt of the duly signed copy by the Association, the
amendment shall become effective.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  2
                              Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Authorized Representative
Date: December 12, 1990
Annexes
                                                ANNEX I
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)(a)  Civil works       283,000       100%
       under Part
       A of the
       Project
   (b) Civil works         17,000       100%
       under Part
       E of the
       Project
(2)(a) Equipment for      544,000       100%
       Parts A through
       D of the Project
   (b) Equipment for
       Part E of the
       Project             56,000       100%
(3)(a) Vehicles for     1,152,000       100%
       Parts A
       through D of
       the Project
   (b) Vehicles for
       Part E of the       61,000       100%
(4)(a) Training for     2,086,000       100%
       Part D of the
       Project
   (b) Training for       254,000       100%
       Part E of the
       Project
(5)On-farm research     1,500,000       100%
(6)(a) Salaries of        604,000       100%
       Extension
       Management Unit
   (b) Salaries of UPA    207,000       100%
(7)(a) Operating Costs  3,133,000       75% up to
       of DA                            an aggregate
Page  3
                                        amount of
                                        SDR 2,400,000
                                        and 50%
                                        thereafter
   (b) Operating costs     88,000       75% up to an
       of UPA                           aggregate
                                        amount of SDR
                                        70,000 and 50%
                                        thereafter
(8)(a) Consultants for    242,000       100%
       through D of the
       Project
   (b) Consultants for    473,000       100%
       Part E of the
       Project
(9)Refunding of Project 1,300,000       Amount due
   Preparation Advance                  pursuant to
                                        Section 2.02 (c)
                                        of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated        1,000,000
                                               ANNEX II
                      SCHEDULE 4
                   Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories l(a),
2(a), 3(a),4(a),5, 6(a), 7(a) and 8(a) in the case of Special
Account A and Categories 1(b), 2(a), 3(b), 4(b), 6(b), 7(b) and 8(b)
in the case of Special Account B set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of 350
million FCFA in the case of Special Account A and an account of 50
million FCFA in the case of Special Account B. Such amounts to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  4
     (b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
          Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
          deposits into the respective Special Account at such
          intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
          Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
          and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
          this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
          which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
          such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
          Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
          into the respective Special Account such amount as the
          Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
          shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
          paid out of the Special Account for eligible
          expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate of the amounts
referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of this Schedule.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 'Withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
Page  5
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
