RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No.  P-653
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
COLOMBIA
November 13, 1968



1'TEhWAT10'-Al BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIOY AND DEV2OPNENT
REPORT AND RECOCI'EMATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTCRS CMT THE PROPOSE: LCAW1 TO
I.NTRCOVIETKICf ELECTRICA S.A.
COLCOBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$18.0 million to
Interconexion Electrica S.A. (Interconexion).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has contributed to the financing of power development
in Colombia for more than 15 years. W-hile Bank operations have been con-
centrated on the three systems serving the major cities of Bogota, Cali
and Medellin, a substantial contribution has also been made to the expan-
sion of the Manizales system. Thirteen loans with an aggregate initial
principal amount of about US$216 million have been Tmade to these four
systems, which presently produce some two-thirds of all the electric
power generated in the nation.
3.        Until the early 1960's these systems, which are primarily hydro-
electric, had developed through staged expansion reasonably in accordance
with the growth of demand in each area. However, looking ahead, it was
possible at that time to foresee that future power development would be
relatively large for the individual systems, requiring much larger blocks
of investment. This suggested the desirability of interconnecting the
separate regional systems to create a single market capable of absorbing
large blocks of new power capacity.
ii.       Accordingly, in the summer of 15963 a study -as conmissioned to
investigate the potential economies of interconnection. When completed
in 1964, the study demonstrated that interconnected development would
result in significant economies by permitting the deferral of some in-
vestments and by the more rapid utilization of others. In mid-1965 a
consulting firm employed to review the institutional implications of
interconnection recommended that the four regional power agencies create
a new jointly-owned company to construct, own and operate not only the
proposed interconnecting transmission system, but also major future power
generating facilities. The Bank indicated its willingness to consider
financing the interconnection project after a new company had been formed,
a general manager had been appointed, and a viable financial plan had
been drawn up. The last of these conditions was fulfilled in the Spring
of 1968.



5.        NegotiatJons for the proposed loan began on September 16, 1968
and were completed on September 19. Interconexion was represented by the
General Manager, Dr. Piedrahita, and by officials from three of its four
principal shareholders: Mr. Borrero (Bogota), Mr. Aristizabal (Medellin)
and Mr. Eder (CVC). The Government of Colombia was represented by
Dr. Camacho and Mr. Botex'o of the National Planning Department.
6.        The proposed loan would bring the Bank's total lending to
Colombia to US$561.1 million (net of cancellations). In addition, an
IDA credit of US$19.5 million was made in 1961. The following is a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Colombia as of
October 31, 1968:
Loan/Credit                                           Amount (US$ Million)
Number    Year Borrower                Purpose     Bank   IDA Undisbursed
Fully disbursed
Total (less cancellations)        313.8
5      1961 Government              Roads             19.5      .5
345      1963 Acerias Paz del
Rio, S.A.             Steel       30. 0          1.O
369      1964  Empresas Publicas
de Medellin           Power       h5.0          23.7
448      1966  Government             Agriculture 16.7           °.2
451      1966  Banco de la Republica  Industry    25.0           6.8
499      1967  Empresa Nacional de    Communi-
Telecomunicaciones     cations    16.3          13.0
502      1967  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria Irrigation   9.0           8.8
534      1968  Banco de la Republica  Industry    12.5          12.5
536      1968  Empresa de Acueducto  lWater
y Alcantarillado       Supply     1L.C          13.2
537      1968  Empresa de Energia
Electrica de Bogota   Power       18,C          13.3
550      1968  Government             Roads       I".2          17.2
551      1968  Ferrocarriles
Nacionales            Railways    18.3          18.3
552      1968  Government             Education    7.6           7.6
Total (less cancellations)                   543.1
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                        106.9
Total now outstanding                        736.2
Amount sold                  17.5
of which has been repaid   13.9              3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA               132.6  19.5
Total undisbursed                            1h7.6    .5  1i8.l



- 3 -
7.        Twenty-three loans have been completely disbursed and four have
been repaid in full. On the remainder, disbursements are proceeding
normally.
8.        By mid-1969 I expect to present to the Executive Directors the
following loans: a loan of about US$15.0 million for agricultural credit,
a loan of about US$15.0 for livestock and a loan of about US$30.0 million
for development finance companies.
9.        IFC has made 21 investments and underwriting commitments in
13 enterprises in Colombia totalling US$15.5 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED TOAN
10.       Borrower:                     Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
Guarantor:                    Republic of Colombia
Shareholders and Guarantors: Corporacion Autonoma Regional del
Cauca
Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota
Empresas Publicas de Medellin
Instituto de Aprovechamiento de
Aguas y Fomento Electrico
Amount:                       The equivalent in various currencies
of US$18.0 million.
Purpose:                      To assist in financing the electrical
interconnection of the four regional
power systems of Bogota, Medellin,
Cali and Manizales and in financing
appropriate studies.
Amortization:                 In 25 years, including 3-1/2 years
of grace, through semi-annual in-
stallments beginning on March 15,
1972 and ending on September 15,
1993.
Interest Rate:                A-1/2% per annum.
Commitment Charge:            3/ of 1% per annum.



- h -
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       Detailed description of the project is given in the attached
report entitled, "Appraisal of Interconexion Electrica S.A., Colombia"
(TO-668a).
12.       Interconexion Electrica is a stock corporation established in
September 1967 under Colombia's commercial code. Its purposes are the
interconnection of the four regional power systems of Bogota, Medellin,
Cali and Manizales; and the establishment of priorities for, and the con-
struction, ownership and operation of, new power plants for the bulk
supply of the regional systems. The four systems supply about two-thirds
of all power consumed in Colombia.
13.       The project consists of the engineering and construction of three
double circuit 230 KV steel tower transmission lines, having a total length
of about 500 FM between Bogota-Manizales, Medellin-Manizales and Cali-
Manizales. In addition, four substations would be constructed with the
appropriate auxiliary equipment at locations suitable for linking up with
the four regional power systems. Also included in the project is a study
by a qualified expert of accounting and pricing methods to assure a satis-
factory pricing system for the sale of power. The statutes of the Inter-
conexion would be appropriately modified on the basis of such study. In
addition, the project will include funds for engineering studies of
future investments in transmission and generating facilities of the
interconnected system.
14.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.6 million.
Of this sum the Bank is to provide US$18.0 million and various export
financing agencies about US$3.4 million. The balance will be provided
by Interconexion out of funds contributed by its shareholders, namely,
the regional power agencies in Bogota, Medellin and Cali, and the national
power agency Electraguas. The Bank loan would be used to cover the cost
of imported equipment estimated to cost US$11.5 million, 50 percent of
engineering consulting services, which may be foreign or local, amounting
to US$2.2 million, and interest during construction of US$2.0 million.
The balance of US$2.3 million is for contingencies. Local cost fi-
nancing, which may be necessary in order not to discriminate against
local consulting firms, will not exceed about $2 million.
15.       The principal shareholders have undertaken to provide Inter-
conexion with the local currency funds needed to carry out the project.
The financial plan of each principal shareholder for the corresponding
period indicates that the provision of such funds is financially feasible.
The Bank and those shareholders which depend in part on Government fi-
nancial support have received satisfactory assurances that the necessary
Government funds will be provided.



16.       Until Interconexion begins to generate and sell power in
1975, all of its financial requirements will be met by funds con-
tributed or loaned by the sponsors or borrowed externally. Inter-
conexion's net income and the dividends it might pay will merely
reflect accounting transfers between Interconexion and its share-
holders, and the concept of a financial rate of return is not appli-
cable to the transmission facilities. The principal benefit, as
indicated above, will be a reduction in future capital investments
in generating facilities. It is estimated that such savings will
amount to about US$130.0 million over the next ten years.
17.       When Interconexion begins to operate generating plant, the
Government, the principal shareholders and Interconexion itself have
agreed that it would establish and maintain tariffs adequate to pro-
vide a minimum annual return of 9 percent on the average current net
value of its generating plant in operation. If, as a result of a
review of national power tariff legislation now under way in Colombia,
an alternative method of guaranteeing a satisfactory level of tariffs
is devised and implemented, the Bank may agree to apply such alterna-
tive method to this project.
18.       This is the last of three Colombian public utility proJects
for which joint financing between the Bank and major industrialized
countries was arranged in October 1967. Loans for the other two
projects - Bogota 11'ater Supply (536 CO) and Bogota Power (537 CO) -
were approved by the Executive Directors on NIay 28, 1968. Under the
agreed arrangements, described in the Memorandum on Joint Financing of
Projects in Colombia and Mexico (JF68-2, of January 21, 1968), fi-
nancing would be provided on a 50/50 basis between the Bank and the
participating supplier country, provided that for each project, indi-
vidual orders for imported goods are of value equivalent to at least
US$200,000 and that the accumulated value of such orders placed in
the supplier country is at least US$1.0 million.
19.       The proposed loan of US$18.0 million takes into account
a minimum of US$3.4 million of joint financing estimated to result
from these arrangements on the basis of the present status of
bidding. Additional joint loans of up to US$3.5 million may become
available when all procurement actions are completed, and the Bank
Loan Agreement would contain provision for early cancellation of any
excess amounts should this additional joint financing be forthcoming.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Interconexion
Electrica S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
Colombia and the Bank and the draft Shareholders' Agreement between the
Bank and the four sponsors and major shareholders of the Borrower, as
well as the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
21.       The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements contain covenants
normally included in agreements for power projects. Particular attention
is called to the provisions requiring the Borrower and the Guarantor
to use their best efforts to secure (under the joint financing arrange-
ments) other financing for the Project (Section 5.12 of the Loan Agreemient
and 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Bank would be entitled to
reduce the loan by any amount in excess of the foreign exchange require-
ments of the project, after taking into account the joint financing
actually available (Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement) and would atust
the amortization schedule of its loan to reflect the amortization of the
other joint financing so as to provide an aggregate amortization of the
external borrowings for this project approximating the amortization which
would be normally applicable to a Bank loan of the same maturity
(Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement). Modifications in the statutes of
the Borrower, which will be revised as part of the project, will require
the Bank's approval.
22.       The draft Agreements contain provisions on charges for use of
the transmission facilities (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement) and on
tariffs for power generated in the future by the Borrower (Section 5.09
of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement) imple-
menting the arrangements referred to in paragraphs 16 and 17.
23.       Under the draft Shareholders' Agreement, each of the four major
shareholders would guarantee one-fourth of the service of the Loan
(Section 2.01) and would undertake to provide one-fourth of the balance
of the funds required to complete the Project (Section 2.03). The Share-
holders would also agree to take all action required on their part to
enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under the Loan Agreement
(Section 2.02), to cover all operating and financial costs of the trans-
mission facilities of the Borrower (Section 3.01), to use their best efforts
to assist the Borrower in obtaining the necessary funds under the joint
financing arrangements (Section 3.0) and to contribute to future capital
expenditures for generating facilities of the Borrower in accordance with
its statutes (Section 3.02).



- 7 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
24.       A section on the Colombian economy is contained in the President's
Report on the Proposed Loan to Banco de la Republica in Colombia for the
Development Finance Companies Project (P-592) of May 2, 1968. A new; report
on Colombia looking ahead over the next five years is now peing prepared
for presentation to the Consultative Group and should be r~eady for distri-
bution later this year. Its preliminary conclusions confirm the validity
of the judgments expressed last May to the effect that, with a continuation
of present fiscal, monetary and flexible exchange rate policies, Colombia
can prudently undertake substantial external borrowing in support of her
vigorous on-going development effort.
PART VI - COMPLAINCE WIITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMEISfNDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Interconexion Electrica S.A. (Power
Interconnection Project) in the amount of the equivalent of
US$18,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Interconexion Electrica S.A.,
to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia and by Corporacion Autonoma
Regional del Cauca, Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota, Empresas
Publicas de M'iedellin, and Instituto de Aprovechamiento de Aguas y Fomento
Electrico, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen mil-
lion United States dollars (US$18,000,COG), to mature on and prior to
September 15, 1993, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half per-
cent (6-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of the Loan Agreement (Power Interconnection Project)
between the Bank and Interconexion Electrica S.A., the form of the Share-
holders' Agreement (Power Interconnection Project) between the Bank and
by Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca, Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota, Empresas Publicas de Mvledellin, and Instituto de Aprovechamiento
de Aguas y Fomento Electrico, and the form of the Guarantee Agreement
(Power Interconnection Project) between the Renublic of Colombia and the
Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments                                          President
VWashington, D.C.
By  S.R. Cope
November 13, 1968



