I RE-TLU                                          RESII "   oIK.TR ITeDu
EREPORTS  COPY WUx hReport No. TO-688a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as- representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
COLOMBIA
October 21, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                   =Col$ 16.3
Col$ 1                  = US$ 0. 061
Col$ 1 million          =US$ 61, 350
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
One kilometer (km)      = 0. 6214 miles
One megawatt (Mw)       = 1, 000 kilowatts
One kilovolt (kv)       = 1, 000 volts
One gigawatt hour (Gwh) = 1, 000, 000 kilowatt hours
One megavolt ampere
(Mva)                 = 1, 000 kilovolt amperes
INTERCONEXION's Fiscal Year ends December 31



APPRAISAL OF INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
COLOMBIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY                                                 i
I.  INTRODUCTION                                            1
II.  BACKGROUND                                              2
III.  THE PROJECT                                             h
Technical Aspects                                  6
Project Cost Estimate                              6
Status of Procurement and Method of Financing      6
Engineering Arrangements                           7
Construction Schedule                              7
IV.  JUSTIFICATION FUR THE PROJECT                           7
Market Forecast                                    7
Immediate Future Developments                      8
Longer-Range Developments                          9
Justification for Interconnection                 10
V. THE BORROWER                                            12
Financial Arrangements                            12
Transmission System                               12
Generating Plants                                 12
Operations                                        13
Management                                        14
Current Situation                                 15
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                      15
Financing Plan                                    18
Sponsors' Positions                               18
INTERCONEXION's Operating Results                 19
Accounts and Audits                               19
VII. CONCLUSIONS                                             19
This report was prepared from information coIlected and analyses
prepared by Messrs. Howell, Arnold and Vigie and staff of the sponsors
during various visits to Colombia and discussions in Washington.



LIST OF ANNEES
1.  Comparison of Investment Streams:   Interconnection vs Independent
Development
Interconexion Electrica S.A.
2. Sponsors' Contributions & Investments, 1967-1974
3. Forecast Income Statements, 1971-1974
4. Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1968-1974
5. Pro-Forma and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1967-1974
6. Sponsors' Actual & Foreicast Financial Statements, 1967-1974
(Income Statements, Sources and Applications of Funds, Balance Sheets)
Tables 1 - 3 Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
4 - 6 Empresas Ptublicas de Medellin
7 - 9 Consolidaited Statements for Central Hidroelectrica del
Rio Anchicaya, Limitada and Corporacion Autonoma
Regional del Cauca
Map



LIST OF ORGANIZATIONS
Interconexion Electrica S.A. (INTERCONEXION).
The new company formed to electrically interconnect the power
systems of four sponsors.
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (BOGOTA).
The electric utility serving Bogota and vicinity. One of the
four sponsors.
Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM).
The utility -- electric, telephone, water and sewerage --
serving Medellin and vicinity. One of the four sponsors.
Central Ridroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya Limitada (CHIDRAL).
A bulk power producer, owned about 65 percent by the
Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca (CVC) and about
35 percent by the Municipality of Cali. CVC/CHIDRAL
are jointly one of the four sponsors.
Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas (CHBC).
The electric utility serving Manizales and vicinity.
CHEC is a subsidiary of the national agency Instituto de
Aprovechimiento de Aguas y Fomento Electrico (ELECTRLGUAS).
ELWETRAGUAS/CHEC are jointly one of the four sponsors.
Comite de Interconexion.
A committee formed by the sponsors to investigate the
benefits of interconnection. The Comite was superseded
by the formation of INTERCONEXION.
Ingetec, Integral and Merz Associates (IIMA).
A joint venture of two Colombian firms with Merz Associates
of London. IIMA i8 the project engineering consultant.
Middle West Service Company.
A U.S. engineering firm which earlier advised the Comite.
No longer involved with the project.






APPRAISAL OF IN¶MRCONEXION EIECTRICA S.A.
COLCMBIA
SUMMART
i.        Interconexion Electrica S.A. (INTRCONEXION), a company recently
formed to electrically interconnect the power systems of Bogota, Medellin,
Cali and Manizales requires foreign exchange financing of US$21.4 million
equivalent to construct the necessary interconnecting facilities. At a
later date INTERCaNEXICN will also construct generating facilities and it
is reasonable to expect that it will ultimately become the dominant force
in the Colombian power sector. The project cost would be equivalent to
approximately US$29.6 million. Financing of the foreign exchange costs
would be shared between the Bank and major industrialized countries under
arrangements described in paragraph 3.08. The loans would be guaranteed
by the Republic of Colombia.
ii.       Engineering for the project has been completed for some time and
major contracts are ready to be placed following procurement procedures
approved by the Bank. Consequently reimbursements would be made from the
proposed Bank loan for expenditures made fran the date of loan approval by
the Executive Directors.
iii.      The local currency costs of the project would be provided through
common stock issued by INT&RCONEXIIN, which would be purchased by
INTERCONEXION's sponsors, the power companies of the four areas to be inter-
connected. The sponsors would also guarantee the proposed loan. The finan-
cial arrangements between INTERCONEXION and its sponsors are complieated but
acceptable. Until it owns generating facilities, INTERCONEXION is intended
to be operated on a "break even" basis acting as the medium for exchanging
power among its sponsors.
iv.       This would be the Bank's sixteenth power loan for Colombia,
thirteen of which were made for extensions to the systems of INTERCONEXICIN's
sponsors which presently produce about two-thirds of the nation's electric
power. While INIRCONEIION is a new company, the continued employment of
consulting engineers for the supervision of construction and assistance of
the sponsoring companies should ensure satisfactory completion of the project
and provision of personnel necessary for the operation of INTERCONEXION.
v.        The project would be suitable for a loan of US$18.0 million equiva-
lent, for a tenm of 25 years including about 3-1/2 years of grace on amorti-
zation payments. The balance of the foreign exchange required for the
project would be provided by supplier countries under arrangements agreed
with the Bank.






APPRAISAL CF INTERCONEXION ELZCTRICA S.A.
COLOMBIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Interconexion Electrica S.A. (INTERCONEXICK), a company recently
formed in Colombia, requires the equivalent of US$21.4 million in external
financing to cover the foreign exchange cost of electrically interconnecting
the four regional power systems of Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Manizales.
The total cost of the project, including interest during construction of
US$2.4 million equivalent, would be approximately US$29.6 million equivalent.
The external financing would be provided by loans from the Bank and major
industrialized countries under arrangements described herein. The proposed
Bank loan would include provisimn for interest charges during the construction
period, whereas INTERCONEXION itself would pay the interest due on the other
loans. The loans would be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia.
1.02      The history of power system development throughout the world has
generally demonstrated that at an appropriate time substantial benefits can
be derived through the physical interconnection and integrated operation of
the systems of individual power supply agencies. Pooled operation pernits
the realization of economies of scale through the construction of generating
units larger than those practicable in amaller component systems, and through
the efficiencies inherent in employing transmission voltages higher than those
warranted in systems serving relatively small markets. More effective use of
resources may be brought about through joint operation of hydraulic systems
located in different watersheds. In addition, pooled operation enhances
reliability of supply to any given market because the supplying agency may
call upon its neighbors in the event of the emergency loss of its own produc-
tion capability. Generally, joint planning can reduce and/or defer overall
investment requirements, which in the Colombian situation is the principal
benefit of interconnection.
1.03      The concept of the project has been actively supported by Bank staff
since 1962 but its realization has been slow. The arrangements now made for
constructing, operating and financing the interconnection facilities required
about four years for agreement. Even so, the statutes by which DINRC0NEXICN
will operate will undoubtedly require revision as experience is gained, but
this can be easily done.
1.04      The project will include three double-circuit 230 kv transmission
lines connecting Bogota-Manizales, Medellin-Manizales, and Cali-Manizales
with terminal substations at the four points. Design and economic studies
were carried out by IIMA, a joint venture of two Colombian engineering finms,
Ingetec of Bogota and Integral of Medellin, with Merz Associates Ltd. of
London. Procurement is well underway and major contracts are ready to be
placed. The Bank's procurement procedures have been followed throughout and
the Bank would reimburse fron the proposed loan payments made by INTERCONEXION
after the date of loan approval by the Executive Directors.



-2-
1.0      This report was preipared from information collected and analyses
prepared by Messrs. HoveUl, Arnold, and Vigie and staff of the sponsors
during various visits to Colombia and discussions in Washington, the most
recent of which took place during negotiations, September 16-20, 1968.
JII. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Bank has been participating in financing power development in
Colombia for more than 15 years. While Bank operations have been concentrated
on the three systems serving the major cities of Bogota, Cali and Medellin, a
substantial contribution has also been made to the expansion of the Manizales
system, which is roughly in the center of the triangle formed by the other
three (see Map). All told, by mid-1968, 13 loans with an aggregate initial
principal amount of about US$216 million have been made to these four systems,
which presently produce some two-thirds of all the electric power generated in
the nation. The Bank's experience with these loans and borrowers has been
generally satisfactory with the notable exception of CVC/CHIDRAL. Due to
failure by CVC/CHIDRAL's past management and by the Government to implement
tariff increases when required, or to provide funds from other sources, these
two borrowers had been in severe financial difficulty for several years. The
situation has improved during the past year, and the Government has reaffirmed
its intent to rationalize the country's tariff setting procedures. Of equal
impottance, it has recognised that CVC/CHIDRAL Ua financial problems can be
solved only through contributions of equity capital, Which it has agreed to
provide.
2.02      The agencies involved in interconnection are:
(i) Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (BOGOTA). An
autonomous municipally-owned utility directly serving
consumers in the city proper and its environs and also
providing bulk supplies to a number of satellite
coamunities. The system is predominantly hydroelectric
with a modest sized coal-fired steam plant. 1967
capacity2! and demand were 456 Mv and 295 Mv, respectively.
(ii) Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM). An autonomous
municipally-owne/ utility operating a purely hydro-
electric system...  As in the case of BOGOTA, customers
within the city and environs are served directly, with
wholesale service provided to certain outlying communi-
ties. 1967 capacity and demand were 450 Mw and 317 Mw,
respectively.
1/ These figures are stated in terms of total short-time peaking capabilities,
without reserves. In some instances, they include recent new major additions.
2/ EPM also provides telephone, water and sewerage services.



-3-
(iii)  Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya Limitada
(CHIDRAL) and Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca
(CVC). CVC is a nationally chartered autonomous
development agency engaged in irrigation, flood
control and electric power operations in the Cauca
valley. CHIDRAL is a bulk power producer, owned
about 65% by CVC and 35% by the Municipality of Cali.
CHIDRAL operates both hydro and thermal generation,
sells its production exclusively to CVC and Empresas
Municipales de Cali (EmCali). EmCali distributes power
in Cali and several neighboring communities. CVC has
an interest in many systems serving smaller communities
throughout the valley, supplying them with power pur-
chased from CHIDRAL. CHIDRAL's 1967 capacity and
demand were 270 Mw and 227 Mw, respectively.
(iv)  Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas (CHEC). A subsidiary
of the national agency Instituto de Aprovechimiento de
Aguas y Fomento Electrico (EIECTRAGUAS). It provides
electric service throughout the state of Caldas and its
capital, Manizales, from a hydroelectric system. 1967
capacity and demand were 70 Mw and 73 Mw, respectively.
2.03      It had become apparent in the early 1960's that these systems were
approaching a size which might make interconnection and integrated operation
attractive. Most of the smaller economic generating sites had already been
developed or were then being developed. Foreseeable future developments in
each region were generally large in comparison to local market requirements,
and an obvious case seemed to exist for their cooperative exploitation in
the context of a larger, interconnected market. Accordingly, in the summer
of 1963 two Colombian engineering firms -- Ingetec of Bogota and Integral of
Medellin -- were commissioned to investigate and report on the potential
economies of interconnection. The results of this study were available by
the end of 1963 and demonstrated clearly that interconnected development could
achieve substantial reductions in costs vis-a-vis continued individual ex-
pansion of the systems involved, principally by deferring investments but also
by permitting rapid utilization of the larger developments foreseen for the
near future. Consequently, during processing of Loan 369-CO to EPM for the
Guatape (Nare) Project in February 1964, the Bank indicated that in view of
the savings to be achieved it would not consider further lending to Colombia
for electric power until serious consideration had been given to inter-
connection of the four principal systems.
2.04      To formulate a plan for the realization of the benefits of inter-
connection, BOGOTA, CVC and EPf formed a Comite de Interconexion, which was
later joined by RIECTRAGUAS to represent the interests of the national govern-
ment in general and in particular those of CHEC. For advice on technical
aspects of interconnection, as well as the design of the necessary transmission
system, the Comite retained the services of Merz Associates (U.K.), who



associated themselves with Inigetec and Integral. This work has been completed
for some time. Meanwhile, the Comite also retained International Middle West
Service Company (U.S.A.) to r3view the institutional implications of inter-
connection and to make recommendations as to the most suitable means for
accomplishing these purposes.l/ In mid-1965 Middle West recommended that the
Comite's sponsors create a newf jointly-owned company to construct, own and
operate not only the proposed interconnecting transmission system, but also
future major power generating facilities. It had been initially contemplated
that after the Comite had agreed upon a mutually satisfactory oorporate vehicle
with suitable powers Middle West would draw up power sales agreements and an
outline for operating the combined facilities of all four systems to achieve
maximum economy. For a number of reasons -- not the least of which was the
Comite's unfamLiliarity with concepts they were facing for the first time --
it was not until September 1967 that a new company was formed. The last phase
of Middle West's assignment is not likely to be realized. This is attributable
in part to differences between the consultants and the Comite, and in part to
a sense of urgency to establish the new company. The sponsors elected to
incorporate the basic guidelines for joint operation in the Estatutos of
INTERC0NEXIONo It was agreed during negotiations that they -wTouldbereviewed,
with suitable expert assistance (see paragraph 5.06).
2.05      The Bank had indicated several years ago its willingnesa to consider
financing the interconnection project after three fundamental steps had been
taken, vizi a new company hacd been formed; a general manager had been
appointed; and a viable financial plan had been drawn up. The last of these
conditions was fulfilled in the Spring of 1968. Meanwhile, BOGOTA had
initiated an expansion of its system along lines consistent with eventual
interconnected operation, and in June 1968 the Bank made a loan (537-co) to
BOGOTA for this purpose.
III. TRE PROJECT
3.01      The principal factors which must be considered in planning and
designing a transmission system ares
(i) the amounts of power to be transmitted;
(ii) the distances involved; and
(iii) the degree of reliability desired.
1/ Owing to the diverse nature of the systems involved and the strong regional
feelings in Colombia, the Bank had long been aware that creating an accept-
able and practical institutional basis for interconnection would be difficult
and time consuming, and had urged that suitable consultants be engaged.



Other considerations such as characteristics of the power systems involved,
topography of the transmission routes, desirability of providing service at
intermediate points, etc. must also be taken into account in achieving an
optimum balance among various design parameters.
3.02      In Colombia, the situation is fairly straightforward.  Studies
carried out by IIMA led to the following conclusions:
(i)  Configuration -- the four systems should be inter-
connected by a "Teel arrangement with the CHEC system
as the focus (see Map).
(ii) Voltage -- the 230 kv class offers the best compromise
between initial cost and longer-term adequacy of trans-
mission capacity for the amounts of power and distances
involved.
(iii) Reliability -- double-circuit steel tower design offers
adequate security of supply. To incur a capital
cost some 20% higher to achieve the marginal increase
in electrical performance afforded by two single-
circuit lines on separate rights-of-way was not justified.
3.03      The new 230 kv system wiU have four terminal facilities to connect
it with the sponsors' existing 115 kv networks, except for Medellin, which has
under construction 230 kv transmission from the Guatape (Nare) plant to the
city proper.
3.04      The project would consist of the following principal elements:
(i)  Three double-circuit 230 kv steel tower transmission
lines with both circuits strung; total length of about
500 km between Bogota-Manizales; Medellin-Manizales;
and Cali-Manizales.
(ii)  Four substations, with autotransformers as required
and appropriate switching equipment located at
(a) El Colegio hydroelectric plant in Bogota, with
two 90 Mva autotransformers;
(b)  Yumbo thermal plant in Cali, with two 90 Mva
autotransformers;
(c) La Esmeralda hydroelectric plant in Manizales
with two 90 Mva autotransformers; and
(d) Ouatape (Nare) hydroelectric plant's 230 kv sub-
station in the Medellin system, without transformers.



-6-
Technical Aspects
3.05      The system design is based upon technical ana economic studies
carried out by IIMA which demonstrated that it represented the least-cost
solution when all factors are taken properly into account. Direct current
transmission would not be a realistic alternative to consider, particularly
in view of the four-terminal feature of the network. Higher voltage
alternating current schemes do not offer additional benefits commensurate
with their substantially higher initial cost, particularly as regards
terminal equipment. A 230 kv class system represents a prudent choice which
has the additional advantage of extensive manufacturing and proven operating
experience the world over.
Project Cost Estimate
3.06      The total estimated cost including interest and other charges
during construction is equivalent to about US$29.6 million of which US$21.8
million would be in foreign exchange.
Cost Estimate
Col$ millions            US$ millions
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Transmission lines              ho.8    154.9  195.7       2.5      9.5   12.0
Substations                     32.6     88.0 120.6        2.0      5.4    7.4
Land                             31.0     -      31.0      1.9      -      1.9
104.4    7Ub T  347-3     'C-T    -14.9   M7i
Engineering                      11.4     35.9   47.3      0.7      2.2    2.9
Contingencies                   11.4      37.5   48.9      0.7      2 3    3.0
Interest during construction     -       39.1    39.1      -        2.h4Y  2.4
778E    ITEE1   135.3     1TE TTV         29 7
Total                          127.2    355.4   482.6      7.8     21.8   29.6
The cost estimate includes contingencies of about 14% on direct costs,
exclusive of land. This is adequate in view of the offers for the principal
items of equipment which have already been received. The final cost of the
transmission lines will depend upon the exact number of towers and their heights,
and contingencies are provided for on the basis of similar work carried out
elsewhere. The allowance for engineering includes factory inspection, field
supervision and INTRCONEXICN's overhead, and a provision for engineering
studies of future power developments.
Status of Procurement and Method of Financing
3.07      Specifications for all the facilities required have been prepared by
IIMA, and reviewed by the Bank.  Solicitations of offers for the transmission
lines and principal substation equipment have been made, and analysis of offers
is now in progress.
1/ Includes US$400 thousand to be paid by INTERCONEXION.



-7-
3.08      This is the last of three Colombian public utility projects for
which joint financing between the Bank and major industrialized countries
was arranged in October 1967. Loans for the other two projects -- Bogota
Water Supply and Bogota Power (Loans 536-CO and 537-CO) -- were approved
by the Executive Directors on May 28, 1968. Under the agreed arrangements,
financing is provided on a 50/50 basis between the Bank and the country in
which contracts are placed, provided that:
(i) To qualify for joint financing individual contracts
must be of value equivalent to at least US$200,000;
and
(ii) The country must receive qualifying contracts aggre-
gating the equivalent of at least US$1 million before
being called on to participate in joint financing.
3.09      Although contracts have not been awarded, the value of completed
bid evaluations indicates that joint financing of not less than US$3.4 million
equivalent will be forthcoming. Moreover, an additional US$3.5 million
equivalent of financing may result from the joint financing arrangements, in
which case a like amount would be cancelled from the proposed loan.
Engineering Arrangements
3.10      The Comite de Interconexion and later INIERCONEXION have been closely
assisted throughout project conception, design and procurement by IIM4A. These
services will be continued until project completion.
Construction Schedule
3.11      Construction should be completed within 32 months after award of
the contracts. Assuming awards are made before the end of 1968, the system
should be ready for operation during the second half of 1971.
IV. -JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROJECT
Market Forecast
4.01      As noted, the systems which would be interconnected upon completion
of the proposed project are currently supplying somD two-thirds of all public
power in Colombia. Gross production in 1967 was about 4,400 Gwh and non-
coincident maximum demand about 900 Mw. Each of the sponsor systems carries
out market studies of its own service area, and from time to time revises its
forecasts of demand as conditions warrant. These individual system projections
have been reviewed and a combined forecast drawn up for the interconnected
system, which has been accepted by the sponsors. The estimated growth in energy
requirements is sumnarized below:



-8-
Gross Energy Requirements (GCh)
Non-Coincident
Year          BOGOTA     EM!     CHIDRAL    CHEC     TOTAL      Demand (Mw)
1968           1,620    1,740     1,190      318     4,868          1,oo4
1969           1,940    1,900     1,305      350     5,495          1,134
1970           2,180    2,070     1,440      385     6,075          1,252
1971           2,269    2,260     1,580      424     6,533          1,347
1972           2,488    2l,460    1,740      467     7,155          1,475
1973           2,713    2,780     1,910      514     7,917          1,631
1974           2,940    3,030     2,100      565     8,635          1,779
The rates of growth, which average about 10%, are generally somewhat
below those which have obtained in the recent past and are likely to under-
state future requirements. Market requirements in 1974 are estimated to be
1,779 Mw and 8,635 (wh. Actual experience over the next several years will
determine the timing of the first generating development to be constructed
by INTRCONEXION (see paragraph 4.06 below).
4.02      Because peak demands on the individual sponsoring systems do not
normally occur simultaneously, the aggregate coincident demand of the inter-
connected pool will be sonelihat less than their ar,thmetic sum. This diversity
is estimated to be of the order of five per cent.1/ When the effect of diver-
sity and the growth rates of the individual systems' demands are taken into
account, the overall average compound growth rate of the demand on the inter-
connected pool after 1971 is expected to be about 10% per annum, at an
average annual pool load factor of 58%. Interconnection will achieve
an improvement in average annual load factor, indicating a more intensive use
of generating plant investaent. This is another benefit of interconnection.
4.03      The consultants' evaluation of market growth has been carefully pre-
pared and forms an acceptable basis for planning for interconnected development.
Imediate Future Dsvelopents
4.04      All DITRCONEXIOM''s sponsors except CVC/C(IDRAL have currently under
construction new generating plant additions to their own systems. These are:
Sponsor             Plant                  Capacity       Initial Cperation
BOGOTA              Canoas                    50 Mw      mid-1971
Colegio II               150 Mw      late 1971
EPM                 Guatape I (Nare)          280 Mw      mid-1969 to late 1970
CHEC                San Frarncisco           135 Mw      late 1969
I/ This is one of the benefits of interconnection.  As early as 1971 -- the
first year of pool operation -- inter-system diversity is nearly equivalent
to the largest generatinmg unit in the pool, i.e., about 70 Mw.



-9.
The construction and ownership of the above plants is specifically reserved to
their sponsors by INTERCONEXICN4'8 Estatutos. In addition, CVC/CHIDRAL intends
to construct the 340 Mw Alto Anchicaya hydroelectric development in their
service area and have already requested a loan from the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank to finance it. Alto Anchicaya wil.l likely be the next major generating
source to be constructed for use in the interconnected system.
4.05      All the spmnsors except CVC/CHIDRAL will have generating facilities
adequate to meet forecast requirements until the end of 1975, when the plants
listed in paragraph 4.04 are taken into consideration.  CVC/CHIDRAL, on the
other hand, are presently operating with a minimumn reserve capacity margin,
and are expected to encounter a shortage (without reserve) in 1969. Initiation
of work on Alto Anchicaya is scheduled for 1969. Between 1969 and 1973
CVC/CHIDRAL will be "importingn power and energyt
(1) during 1969-70 from BOGOTA over a double-circuit 115 ky
line connecting BOGOTA's El Colegio plant through
Girardot and Ibague to Zarzal, a point on CVC's existing
115 kv aystem; and
(ii) during 1971-73 from INTERCCEXIOIN over the 230 kv lines
of the proposed project.
Longer-Range Developsmnta
4.06      One of the fundamental purposes of INTRCCNEXICN is to develop the
larger plants envisioned for the future, and it has been agreed among the
sponsors that the now capacity required by the beginning of 1976 will be
constructed, owned and operated by INTERCONEXICf. INT&RCCHEXION will, as
noted earlier, be responsible for studies of these future developments. At
the present time, there is only one well-defined possibility: the 1,000 Mw
Chivor hydroelectric development on Rio Beta, northeast of Bogota. Tentative
forward planning is based upon the need to have the first two 125 Mw Chivor
units in operation by early 1976, and this is reflected in INTERCONEXION's
financial plan for the years 1971 and later. The total direct cost of the dam
and other works with three units installed (through 1977) is estimated to be
about US$110 million equivalent.  It is interesting to note that this plant
can be developed to its full capability in about one-third the time with
interconnection than would be the case without interconnection.
4.07      There are other potential developments within the interconnected
area which, while not yet studied thoroughly, might prove attractive when
more data are available.  These include 
(i) A hydroelectric plant on Rio Sogamosa near Barranca-
bermeja. In the event this is developed, the basic
230 kv interconnecting transmission system may eventually
be extended from Medellin to Barrancabermeja.



- 10 -
(ii) A steam-electric plant in the Barrancabermeja-
Bucaramanga area with an equivalent transmission
extension.
(iii)  A hydroelectric plant on Rio San Juan north of Buena-
ventura, whLch could be tied into the interconnection
through Cali. (Investigations of the above three
possibilitit3s are now being made with US AID financing.)
(iv) A hydroelectric plant on Rio Samana west of Medellin.
In the event one of these developments is selected instead of Chivor,
INTERCONEXION would, of course, revise its planning accordingly. Should this
be the case, it would like:ly result in capital investments less than those
associated with Chivor, and thus the financial plan presented in this report
while tentative for the later years, may be conservative in that it may over-
state future capital requirements.
4.o8      Another remote possibility exists:   construction of Guatape II, a
plant reserved by EPM. It has already been thoroughly studied, and its cost
can be estimated closely because it is essentially a duplicate of Guatape I,
now well advanced. However, it is unlikely to be constructed in the period
under consideration since with present arrangements it would be financed
entirely by EPM, whereas EPM can acquire the right to an equivalent part of
Chivor's capacity with a much lower investment. The postponement of Guatape II
is not expected to have a significant bearing on the overall economic review
of construction priorities.
4ho0      The market forecast and the capacity addition programs for
INTERCONEXION and the sponsoring systems have been agreed upon by the members,
and form an acceptable basis for estimating INTERCONEXICN's future operating
results and financial position.
Justification for Interconnection
4.10      Many of the obvious benefits of interconnection have been mentioned
earlier in this report. They are included below:
(i) Utilization of Larger and Most Economical Plants -- Future
generation developments, Chivor, for example (para-
graph 4.06), can be brought into full production relatively
rapidly to serve the integrated market whereas the same
plant would be too large for any independent system in the
near future. Larger and more economical units are also
Justified with the larger system.



(ii)  Pooling of Reserves -- The independent systems each require
reserve capacity equal to at least the value oI' their
largest generating unit. However, reserve requirements
for integrated operation are less than the arithmetic sum
of independent reserves, being commonly accepted as 10%
of total capacity or the largest unit, whichever is
greater.
(iii) Load Diversity -- Since peak demands on the individual
systems do not occur simultaneously, the aggregate system
coincident demand is less than the arithmetic sum of
individual demands. This saving is calculated to be
five per cent, which in 1971 is already nearly equivalent
to the largest generating unit in the system.
(iv) Hydrologic Diversity -- The integration of several systems
allows better use of the seasonal variation of rainfall and
river flow between different areas. This is particularly
valuable in the Colombian case since the individual systems
are predominantly hydro.
(v) Firming of Capacity -- With integrated operations, water can
be stored at certain times and places in a manner which would
be impossible on an individual system basis. This increases
the systems' firm capability.
(vi) In addition, intangible benefits will result from integrated
operations such as greater service reliability, better
frequency and voltage control and more flexibility in
scheduling maintenance.
4.11      As a result of the benefits mentioned, which are difficult to
quantify individually, capital expenditures with interconnection would be
greatly reduced. In Colombia's case the economy of first cost provides the
convincing argument for interconnection. To determine the range of what
this might be, calculations were made of the capital cost which each indi-
vidual system would incur in meeting its market requirements. The individual
projections were then summed and compared to equivalent capital costs to be
incurred with interconnected operation, including the cost of initial trans-
mission facilities. The results are shown in Annex 1. It will be seen that
capital costs with interconnection are equivalent to US$132 million less
during the next 10 years than the sum of costs which would otherwise be
incurred. The time value of money is of course important, but in this case
the only year in which higher costs are incurred with interconnection is
1969, the first year. The second year shows a net saving, which increases
in each following year.



- 12 -
V.  THE BORROWER
Financial Arrangements
5.01      The new company, INTERCONEXION, is a stock corporation established
in September 1967 under Colombia's commercial code, with authorized capital
of Col$200 million. Its purposes are the interconnection of the CVC/CHIDRAL,
BOGOTA, CHEC, and EPM systems; and the establishment of priorities for, and
the construction, ownership, and operation of, new po-eerplants for the bulk
supply of the sponsors' systems. It is also endowed with broad corporate
powers, including those of entering into contracts in general, and of issuing
debt securities or otherwise contracting debt. It is wholly owned by CVC,
CHIDRAL, BOGOTA, EPM, EIECTRAGUAS, and CHEC. The authorized capital is
Col$200 million represented by 2,000 shares of nominal value Col$100,000 each.
The sponsors have subscribed to 200 shares as follows:
CVC              49 shares        Col$ 4,900,000
CHIDRAL           1 share                100,000
BOGOTA           50 shares             5,000,000
EPM               50 shares            5,000,000
EICTRAGUAS       49 shares            4,900,000
CHEC              1 share                100 000
Col$20,000,000
Upon incorporation of INERCONEXION, the sponsors paid in Col$4 million
of tne initial Col$20 million subscription. Additional subscriptions will be
made as construction of the transmission system, and later, generating develop-
ments, require more funds.
Transmission System
5.02      The local currency costs of the initial transmission system will be
met by equity investments by CVC/CHIDRAL, BOGOTA, EPM, and ELECTRAGUAS/CHEC
on a pari passu basis, i.e., each contributing 25% and receiving a
commensurat  aount of the stock of INTERCONEXICA.    The foreign exchange costs
of the system will be financed by the proposed Bank loan and joint financings,
contracted by INTERCONEXION and guaranteed by the four principal sponsors.
Generating Plants
5.03      As in the case of the transmission system, the foreign exchange
component of new generating developments will be financed by external loans
to INTERCaNEXION, guaranteed by the sponsors. Local currency requirements
would be obtained from:
(i) CVC/CHIDRAL, BOGOTA, EPM, and EIECTRAGUAS/CHEC each
making additional equity investments in INTERCONEXION
of 10% of the total currency cost of the
new plant (or plants) to be constructed;



- 13 -
(ii) sales of its bonds, equal in the aggregate to the
remaining 60%, by INTERCONEXION to the sponsors;
the value of bonds sold to each sponsor would be related
to that sponsor's proportional requirement for new
capacity. The bonds would carry a coupon equal to the
rate of interest prevailing for comparable obligations,
currently about 10%. Interest would not be payable,
however, until INTERCONEXION begins to produce and market
power from the plants financed by the bonds.
5.04      Each sponsor system will at all times be required to maintain,
through its own generating plant and the right to a share in the output of
plants owned by INThRCONEIICN, total generating capability adequate to serve
its own market requirements with a reasonable share of system reserve. It
is inevitable that some plants to be built by INTERCONEXICK will have, at
the time of their initial operation, capacity greater than the immediate
additional aggregate requirements of all the sponsors and precisely how the
cost-sharing formula would operate under such circumstances remains to be
seen. However, in broad concept, INTERCONEXICN will allocate the capacity
of new plants among the sponsors and since local currency financing will
depend on having total capacity allocated before commencing construction,
such allocation will obviously have to be made. INTSRCONEXION's Estatutos
provide that should a sponsor fail to subscribe to calls for equity or sales
of bonds by INIERCONEXION needed to finance such new plants, the other sponsors
may do so. A sponsor who refuses to invest in new plants would later be
charged a discriminatory rate for power purchased from the plant, and would
also lose any rights to such power in the event ot. a pool-wide shortage.
Operations
5.05      INTERCONEXION will schedule and control the dispatch of all inter-
connected generating capacity, both the sponsors' and its own, recognizing,
however, that CHIDRAL cannot easily shut down its relatively high-cost Yumbo
steam plant since it produces its own coal frcm captive mines and cannot
abruptly close the mines. Interchanges, sales and purchases of energy among
the sponsors and INTERCONEXICN will be made at prices determined in accord-
ance with the following rules:
(i) Initially INTERCONEXION will make purchases from
any sponsors who have energy available beyond their
immediate requirements and supply the deficit of
any other sponsor. INTERCONEXICN will pay the
"exporting" sponsor a price equal to its costs;
and sell to the "importing" sponsor at the weighted
average price INTERCONEXION has paid.



(ii)  Following construction by INTERCONEXICN of its own
generating capacity, it will charge the sponsors
for energy supplied at a rate sufficient to cover
operating expenses including depreciation and interest,
amortization on local and foreign debt to the extent
it exceeds depreciation, anu dividends on the sponsors'
share capital.
5.06      This concept of buying energy from some sponsors and selling it to
others at cost may present practical difficulties. For example, there is a
lack of uniformity of accounting methods among the sponsors, and the question
of comparable costs of power production by each has yet to be clarified.
Moreover, such pricing p6Licies may prove inequitable in the future since
they fail to discriminate among the values of different classes of energy,
such as firm, dump hydro, economy interchange, emergency, etc. These problems
have been discussed with IN7ERC0NEXION's General Manager and the managers of
the sponsors who have agreed that expert advice is required and will be
obtained. The Bank is presently assisting in finding suitable experts in
this field and their costs would be reimbursed from the proposed loan. The
need to review and if necessary amend those articles of the Estatutos dealing
with pricing before the completion of the proposed transmission project was
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
5.07      Because INTERCCNEXION's only source of revenues prior to operation
of its own plants (not likely before 1975) will be the at-cost sales of
sponsors' surplus energy, it will require contributions from the sponsors to
defray operating expenses. Direct operation and maintenance expenses of the
transmission facilities will be contributed by them in proportion to their
own sales, excluding any sales to INTERCONEIIC1. Depreciation expenses wil
be shared equally.
Management
5.08      In accordance with provisions of the Estatutos, the shareholciers,
meeting in General Assembly, will elect for one year a four-member Board of
Directors and their alternates who may be re-elected. The Board will elect
one of its members as ChaiLrman. The Board is responsible for the appointment
of the management and staff, overseeing and informing the shareholders of
the general financial condition of INTERCCIEXICN, and authorizing contracts
greater than Col$200,000 in value. Board meetings will normally take place
monthly.
5.09      The Board appoints a General Manager, and two alternates empowered
to act in his absence or in the event of his disability.  They serve for two
years, and may be reappointed. The General Manager may not be a member of
the Board. He is generally responsible for guiding the day-to-day activities
of INTERCONEXION in accordance with the Estatutos and the policies set by the
Board. All employees of INTERCCNEXION are subordinate to the General Manager
except the "Revisor Fiscal", an internal auditor elected by and responsible
solely to the shareholders.



- 15 -
Current Situation
5.1o      At present INTERCONEXICN's staff is composed ol the General Manager
and two Assistant General Managers, one for administrative/financial affairs,
and one for technical affairs. Both assistants are capable and experienced
in power system operation and known to the Bank. During construction of the
initial transmission network, the need for in-depth operational management
will, of course, be limited. The principal responsibilities of the General
Manager and his assistants will be to execute and administer construction
supply contracts, and serve as a focal point between INTERCONEXION's engineer-
ing consultants and its contractors.
5.11      While staff requirements will be modest prior to ccmpletion of the
new transmission facilities, INTERCONEXICN's management should nevertheless
be expanded in anticipation of dealing with the problems of an interconnected
operation. Operating guidelines must be prepared and agreed upon by the
sponsors. Market growth and capacity development studies should be commenced
and a suitable accounting system must be developed. Financial requirements
will have to be identified and arrangements made well in dvance of actual
need. The appointment of suitably qualified staff will be a major responsi-
bility of tne General Manager in the near future and although itis possible
that some management positions could be filled by employees of the sponsors,
their recruitment should be undertaken during the next year. In any event,
specialized outside assistance will be required, as noted in paragraph 5.06,
to revise certain operational aspects of the Estatutos.
5.12      It is at present not possible to make a judgment as to the capability
of INTERCONEXION's management. In practice, one must look to the sponsors to
act in their own enlightened self-interest to assure that INTERCONEXION enjoys
competent management.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.01      Although INTERCONEXION is an independent legal entity, the nature
of its operation as well as its Estatutos preclude making a financial analysis
in the conventional sense. Until it begins to generate and sell power in 1975
and later years, all its funds -- whether for capital investment or for opera-
ting expenses -- will either be contributed or invested by the sponsors, or
borrowed externally. This can be seen clearly by examining Annexes 2 and 4,
which show the origin and disposition of funds. Since the sponsors are the
sole owners, they would share in the disposition of INTERCONEXION's net income;
but by the same token, INT5RCONEXICN's income is uniquely the result of the
sponsors' contributions.  Therefore, the investment in the transmission facili-
ties will not earn a specific minimum return, because such a return as far as
the sponsors are concerned would merely be returning, as dividends, funds
contributed.



- 16 -
6.02      On the other hand, the Estatutos are clear that the investments
to be made in generating facilities will earn a return adequate to pay
dividends equivalent to the yield on comparable investments.
6.03      These arrangements are satisfactory.    Daring 1968-71 INTERCONEXION
will be constructing the transmission facilities, and beginning their opera-
tion. In 1971-74, in addition to purchasing, transmitting, and selling
energy among the sponsors, INTERCONEXION will be initiating the construction
of its first generating development, here assumed to be Chivor. The fund
requirements and proposed sources of finance during these periods is summarized
below, and shown in more detail in Annex 4.
CONDENSED FINANCIAL PLAN
1968-1971                1968-1974
Col$                     Co- $
Millions    Per cent     Millions    Per cent
SOURCES
Internal
Operating income                      -                         66.6
Depreciation                          4.8                       63.6
4.6      0.8             130.2    6.9
Debt service                                                   240.1
Interest charged to
construction                   (49.9)                    (149.5)
-         -                90.6     4.8
NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION          4.7                       39.6
External
Sponsors' investments in
common stock                     155.2      26.7             407.2   21.4
Sponsors' investments in bonds       22.3      3.8             250.3   13.1
Foreign financings                  398.2     68.7            1209.9   63.4
n75.7      99.2             _    197.9
TOTAL SOURCES                580.5     100.0           1907.0   100.0
APPLICATIONS
Additions to plant
Construction expenditures           529.9     91.3           1721.5    90.3
Interest charged to construction    49.9       8.6             149.5    7.8
79.        99-9           1871. .   W0 1
Increase in cash                       0.7       0.1              36.0    1.9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           580.5    100.0            1907.0  100.0



- 17 -
Financing Plan
6.o0      The principal features of the proposed financing plan are:
(i) The foreign exchange costs of the transmission system
and the generating development will be borrowed ex-
ternally. It has been assumed that the proposed Bank
loan and joint financings would be obtained for a
25-year term, including an initial grace period on
repayment of 3-1/2 years, with interest at six and
one-half per cent. The first repayment would be
made in 1972.
(ii)  Interest payable during the construction of the trans-
mission facilities on the proposed Bank loan will be
included in and paid fram the Bank loan; INTERCONEXION
will finance comparable interest charges on the joint
financings. The sponsors will contribute funds to
INTERCONEXION sufficient to pay interest due on all
these obligations after commercial operation begins.
Interest payable on the foreign borrowings during the
construction of the generating plant will be paid by
the sponsors, and they will in return receive common
stock of INTERCONEXICN.
(iii)  The operating expenses, including depreciation, associ-
ated with the transmission system, will be contributed
to INTERCONEXION by the sponsors. Similar expenses
associated with generating plants will be recovered
through sales of energy generated.
Sponsors' Positions
6.05      It is apparent that the financing plan is no better than the ability
of the sponsors to make the necessary contributions and investments, and to
guarantee INTERCONEXION's external debt. A careful examination of the current
and prospective financial position of the three principal operating sponsors
was made, and the results summarized in the tables of Annex 6. Required tariff
adjustments have been obtained by EPM and CVC/CHIDRAL, as well as short-term
loans and credits required to complete their 1968-69 financial requirements.
In the case of CVC/CHIDRAL, the Government has agreed to provide the funds
needed over the next four years (cf. paragraph 2.01). CHEC's contribution
will be minimal, and well within its capabilities. ELECTRAGUAS intends to
fulfill its obligations from national budget appropriations. These arrange-
ments were confirmed during negotiations.
6.06      The financial forecasts of BOGOTA, EPM, and CVC/CHIDRAL are satis-
factory. In each case the current positions are acceptable, and the rates of
return on revalued investments are adequate.   The debt/equity ratios of the
sponsors (and INTERCONEXION) are not significant unless all the various state-
ments are consolidated because most future debt will be contracted by
INTERCONEXION but will remain a contingent liability of the sponsors. The



- 18 -
average consolidated debt/equity ratio during 1968-7h is about 52:h8, which
is satisfactory.
TNTERCONEXION's Operating Results
6.07      Annexes 3, 4, and !5 present the projected performance and position
of INTERCONEXION. Rates of return and debt/equity ratios are shown, but for
reasons explained in paragraphs 6.01 and 6.06 do not have the significance
normally attached to them in the more conventional situation.
6.o8      Given the relationships between INTERCONEXION and its sponsors,
together with the sponsors' sound financial positions, the 1968-74 situation
may be considered acceptable. There would be no point in seeking a minimum
rate of return requirement, because its application would be no more than a
bookkeeping transaction.  However, as INTERCONEXION acquires generating
assets, a rate of return criterion can be meaningfully applied, and is in
fact well defined in the Estatutos. A target of nine per cent would be
reasonable, calculated on average net generating plant in service. Never-
theless, the question of adequate earnings on the investment in transmission
facilities -- including any additions which may be required in the future by
market growth and expansion -- must be dealt with eventually. This would be
a suitable area for the specialized consultants (paragraph 5.o6) to examine
during their general review of the pricing policies implicit in the Estatutos.
Accounts and Audits
6.09      As a matter of good management, INTERCONEXION will retain the
services of qualified independent auditors. By judicious selection, it
should be possible to engage a firm (or individual) which could assist in
setting up the accounting system in the first instance. Any foreign exchange
costs of such technical assistance would be paid from the proposed loan.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01      The project has been actively supported by the Bank since 1962
but its realization has been slow. Wile technical planning has been sub-
stantially completed for some time, certain aspects of the Estatutos and
lack of a viable financial plan prevented an earlier presentation of the
project for loan consideration. However, the administrative and financiel
arrangements now made and described in this report are acceptable.
7.02      The benefits of the project to the economy of Colombia are sub-
tantial. Calculations by consultants and Bank staff indicate that, with
interconnection and integrated operation of the four power systems, capital
costs of power system expansion in the area served by the project can be
reduced to about US$200 million equivalent during the next 10 years, compared
to about US$330 million equivalent which would be otherwise required. Even
if these were in error by a factor of two, the results would provide more than
ample justification for the proposed investment.



- 19 -
7.03      By virtue of certain provisions of the Estatutos, INTERCONEXION's
autonomy will be scmewhat limited during its initial years and its financial
viability will depend upon contributions of funds by its sponsors. It will
not achieve financial returns at levels normally considered satisfactory
until after it owns generating facilities, but from that time on its financial
operations are expected to be carried out on conventional and acceptable bases.
In the longer run, INTERCONEXION should become the dominant force in Colombian
power sector development.
7.o4      The project would be partially financed by supplier countries unaer
arrangements agreed with the Bank. Based on the results of bidding reviewed
to date, it appears that financing of not less than US$3-4 million equivalent
would be available from such sources, leaving US$18.0 million equivalent to
be financed by the proposed loan, and US$400 thousand by INTERCONEXION for
interest during construction on the joint financings. However, as procurement
proceeds there is likelihood that further contracts would qualify for supplier
country financing, in which case the Bank loan would be reduced by cancella-
tion of a corresponding amount.
7.05      The project woula be suitable for a loan of US$18.0 million
(including US$2.0 million to cover interest during the construction period),
for a period of 25 years including about 3-1/2 years' grace on amortization
payments. During negotiations in September 1968 INTERCONEXION agreed that:
a)  from the time it owns generating facilities,
tariffs will be set to produce the earnings
required by the Estatutos but in no case at a
level which would not yield a rate of return
of at least nine per cent on currently valued
average net generating plant in operation
(paragraph 6.08);
b)  it will retain specialized advisers on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to review the
articles of the Estatutos which deal with power
sales pricing policies; and upon completion of the
review suitably amend the Estatutos if recommended
(paragraph 5.06);
c) it will retain independent auditors on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 6.09).
7.06      INTERCONEXION and the sponsors agreed that a breach of the Estatutos
would constitute a breach of the proposed agreement with the Bank.
7.07      CVC/CHIDRAL confirmed that contributions in the form of grants of
Col$76.9 million have been secured for the year 1968 and that the Government
has committed itself to make grants in the amount of Col$50 million per year
from 1969-72, or a total of Col$200 million; EPM confirmed that borrowings in
local currency amounting to Col$55.5 million have been arranged for the year
1968; and the Government agreed that EIECTRAGUAS will receive all funds needed to
fulfill its obligations to INTSRCONEXION (paragraph 6.05).
October 21 , 1968






COMPARISON OF INVESTMET STRELMS
INTERCONNECTION VS INDEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT
(Col$ Millions)
1968       1969       1970        1971       1972       1973       1974      1975         1976       1977       1978         Total
Capital Costsi- No
Bogota System                           -          86        350        391         450        190        151       115           72         38         70        1,913
Medellin System                         -          -          -          54         237        385        429       431          254        253        312        2,355
CVC/CHEC System                         -          22         67         40          22         18         64       209         287         183        205        1 117
TOTAL "A"                            -        -5         -CI7       --g                                         t75                      4            7
Capital Costs with
Interconnection
Transmission                            40        153        194         57          -          -          -         _           _                                  444
Chivor 1, 2 & 3                         -          -          -          86        350         391        450       358         143          30         -         1,808
Chivor 4, 5 & 6                         -          -          -          -           -          -          -         -            33        131        131          295
Chivor 7 & 8                            _-                                     -          -                                      -           24         95          119
Nare II                                 -          -                                          .                                  113        227        227          567
TOTAL "B"                            40u      -T 19                   97 391                           4453                                                    3,233
Difference:   "lA" - "B"                   (40)       (45)       223         342        359        202        194        397         324         62        134
Summation Difference:
Col$                                   (40)       (85)       138        480         839      1,041      1,235     1,632       1,956       2,018      2,152
Equivalent US$                          (2.5)      (5.2)      (8.5)      29.4        51.5       63.9       75.8     100.1        120.0      123.8      132.0
July 22, 1968
Revised October 2, 1968






ANNEX 2
INTERCON2ICiN ELECTRICA S.A.
Sponsors' 7ont-ri-bu-tronss & Ineestmceta 1967-1974.
(ColS Milli-ons)y  -
Ac tual                              ----  ---Forecast------- 
Year Ending Decenber 31                                         1967          1966       1969      1970       1971      1972       1973      1971            Total
cONITRIMITTONS
(No Stock or  ods-Rceived)
Operation & Maintenance
B1.GOTA                                                   -               0.5       0.5        0.5       1.8        3.3       3.3        3.3            13.2
-PPM                                       ~       ~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~- 0.5  0.5  0.9  1.4      2.7        2.7       2.7             11.0
CVC/CHIDRAL                                                -              0.1        0.1       0.,.       1.3       2.b       2.1        2.1              9.7
ELT,TR(AGU.AS/CHEC                                        -               0.1        0.1       0.1        0.3       0.6       0.6        0.6              2.i
-     - r        i.        5          90         .         9.0           -36.3
Depreciation
BOGOTA                                                                                         -         1.2        4.9       4.9        1.9             15.9
EPM                                                       -               -         -          -         1.2        1.9       1.9        1.9            15.9
CVG/CHIDRAL                                               -               -         -          -         1.2        1.9       1.9        4.9            15.9
ELECTRArOAS/CHEC                                          -               -          -         -         1.2        1.9       1.9        1..9            15.9
-.        W77        -975      T559             63.6
Interest on Proposed Loan/Joint Financings
RO4J2TA                                                   -               -         -          -         -          5.7       5.6        5.3            16.6
EPM                                                       -               -         -          -         -          5.7       5.6        5.3             16.b
CVC/CRIDRAL                                               -              -          -         -          -         5.7        5.5       9.5             16.7
ELE-TRAGUJAS/CHEC                                                         -         -          -         -          5.7       5.5        5.5            16.7
Tota1 Contributions                                                  1.5       1.5        1.5       9.6      51.1       50.8      50.2            166.5
INVrESTMENTS
Cormmon Stock
Tr-ansmission System
BOGOTA                                                  1.0             2.2      19.0       10.2       5.0       -          -         -               33..
EPM                                                     1.0             2.2      15.0       10.2       5.0        -         -          -               33.1
CVC/CHIDRAL                                             1.0             2.2      19.0       10.2       5.0        -         -          -              33.1
ELECTRVYJA1",'HEC                                       1.0             2.2      15.0       10.2       5.0       -          -          -               3.
~ 7                                    -U8 20.0                                       13.
Chivor Hydroelectric Project
BOGOTA                                                  -               -         -          -         6.4       16.1      21.2       25.7            69.1
EPMI-                                                                     -                            6.1      16.1       21.2       25.7            09.1~
GVC/CEIDRAL                                             -               -         -          -         6.1       16.1      21.2       20-. 7          69.1
ELECTRAGUAS/CREC                                                          -                            6.4       16.1      21.2       25.7            62.0!
61.17~          81.6    -1522.           _T 
Total Common Stock                                   4.0             6.8      60.0      40.8       15.6      64.4       51.8     102.5            411.2
Bonds - Chivor Hydroelectric Project
BOGOTA                                                    -               -         -          -        17.3       53.1      61.0      63.3            191.7
E-111                                      ~       ~       ~    ~    ~~~~-  -  -  -        3.7      11.3       12.9      13.L             11.3
CVC/CHIDPAL                                               -               -         -          -         1.3        3.9       1.5        1.6            1.:. 3
ELECTHAGUAS/CHEC                                          -               -         -          -          -          -         -          --
Total Bonds                                                                                        TT.      8797       -7B7      73               -2T30.3
Total Investunents                                   1.0             8.8      60.0       W0.       67.9     132.7      163.2     18i.1            661.5
SUM4ARY OF SPONSORS' CONTRIBJTIONS & INVESTMiNTS
BOGOT A
Tontribotions                                                              0.        05         05        3.0       13.9      13.8       13.5            15.7
Investments                                ~~~~~~~~1.0     2.6       15.0:     10.        28.7      69.2       82.2      89.0            297.5
EPH
Contributions                                             -0.5                      0.5        0.5        2.6      13.3   ~  13.2       12.9             13.5
Investments                                               1.0             2.2      15.0       10.2      15.1       27.1      31.1       39.1           111.1
T"13          IT7         T17       410'7     173        Tho7__
GCVI/CH TOAL
C-ont-butions                                             -               0.1        0.1       0.4       2.5       13.0      12.8       12.8             12.3
Investments                                               1.0             2.2      15.0       10.2      12.7       20.0      25.7       30.3           117.1
T.-C        2.6      !57        _U        16.2       7T-       '877       _7              5-
ELECTRAGUAS/CHF.C
C--Zo-n t-r-sTMon s                                          -               0.1       0.1        0.1       1.5       11.2      11.0      11.0             35.0
Investmuents                                              1.0             2.2      15.0       10.2      .1.1      16.1      21.2       25.7           102.8
_.Z             T7~       W7        W3        1288.      T7j       3E       -33:7           -137.8
TOTAL ANOSiAL SPOJNSORS' EXPENDITURES                          1.0            10.3      61.5       12.3      77.5      184.1     214.0      234.3           828.0
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968






INTERCONEXICN ELECTRICA S.A.
Forecast Income Statements 1971 - 1974
(Col$ Millions)
Year Ending December 31                                                   1971      1972       1973        1974
Sales (To CVC/CHIDRAL) - Gwh                                              421       527        484           _
Operating Revenues
Sales                                                                44.6       48.5       45.o         -
Sponsors' Contributions                                               9.6       51.4       50.8        50.2
Operating Expenses
Operation & Maintenance                                                4.6       8.8        8.8         9.0
Parchased Power                                                      44.8      48.7        45.2         -
Depreciation                                                          4.8       19.6       19.6        19.6
54.2~   - 77.1    -7 -37       20.6
Operating Income                                                            -        22.8       22.2        21.6
Interest
Proposed Foreign Financings (Transmission System)                    18.6       22.8       22.2        21.6
Future Foreign Financings (Chivor Hydroelectric Development)          10.8      18.8       32.4        48.4
b :7 77    S7.         -7770.0
Charged to Construction                                         (29.4)    (18.8)     (32.4)      (48.4)
Interest Expense                                                               27             2
Net Income
August 21, 1968
Revised October 7, 1968



INTERCONEIION 8LECTRICA S.A.
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1968-1974
-Col Milions)
Year Ending December 31                                                         1968            1969         1970          1971          1972          1973          1974
SOURCES
Iternat   Incom                                                                             -             -            -            22.8          22.2          21.6
Depreciation I m.8                                                                                                                  19.6          19.6          19.6
Elxternal
Sponsors' Investments in Coznon Stock                                       8.8             60.0         40.8         245.6         648.34        784.8        102.8
Sponsors' Investments in Bonds                                              -               -            -            22.3          68.3          78.4          81.3
Foreign Borrowings
Proposed FinanCing for Tranm     saion System                            27.7             99.6        166.1         55.4          - 5
Future Financing for Chivor Hydroelectric Development                                     - _           -            49.4        236.5         260.5         314.7
~~T-7        ___77                                                               31u.3-7  ,.-   T-7
TOTAL SOURCES                                               36.5            159.6        206.9        177.5         411.6         465.5         540.0
APPLICATIONS
Construction±/
Transmission System
Local Currency                                                           12.5             58.o         39.9         16.8          _             _
Foreign Exchange                                                         26.7             93.8        155.4         4o.4          -             -
39.2            T71T7        1-95.3                       -             -            -
Chivor Hydroelectric Development
Local Currency                                                                            -            -            37.0         113.7         130.7         135.5
Foreign Exchange                                                                          -                         4 9          236.5         260.5         3140.7
-          ~~-            -           -77           350.2771                   Z50.2
TOTAL C0N3TRUCTION                                               39.2           151.8         195.3        143.6         350.2         391.2         450.2
Debt Service
Interest
Proposed Foreign Financing - Tranuission System                           1.0              6.8         12.7         18.6          22.8          22.2          21.6
Future Foreign Financing - Chivor Hydroelectric Development               -               -             -           10.8          18.8          32.4 458.4
Amortization
Proposed Foreign Financing - Transmission System                                          -            -             -             7.4           8.0           8.6
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                                1.0              6.8         12.7         29.4          49.o          62.6          78.6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                          40.2            158.6         208.0       173.0          399.2        453.8         528.8
Annual Increase (Decrease) in Cash                                              (3.7)             1.0          (1.1)         4.5           12.4         11.7         11.2
Cash on Hand - Year End                                                          0.3              1.3          0.2          4.7           17.1         28.8          4o.o
1/ Excludes interest charged to construction.
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
Pro-Forma 1967 aad Forecast 1966-1974 Balance Sheets
(Co1$ Hillions)
Pro-Forma           - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Forecast   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending Decesber 31                                                                   1967              1968       1969       1970       1971         1972        1973        1974
ASSETS
Gross PlIat     Service                                                                                                                     482.6        482.6       482.6        482.6
Reserve for Depreciation                                                                                                                 4.8         24.4        44.o        63.6
Net Plant in Service                                                                                                                        477U  n3r7            _-   F4             o
Work in Progress                                                                                            40.2      198.8      406.8       97.2        466.2       889.8     1 388.4
Net Fixed Assets                                                                                                                  __57        7         1,f5.04      _    _T_
Cash                                                                                       4.0               0.3        1.3        0.2         4.7        17.1        28.8       140.0
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                4.o             40.5      200.1       407.0      579.7       941.5     1,357.2      1,847.4
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                                                               4.0             12.8        72.8      113.6      159.2        223.6       308.4       411.2
I'Oyg Ter  Dbt
Proposed Foreign Financing - fransmission System                                                      27.7       127.3      293.4      341.4        333.4       324.8       315.6
Future Foreign Financing - Chivor Hydroelectric Developusit                                            -          -          -          49.4        285.9       546.4       861.1
Bonds Held by Sponsors - Chivor Hydroelectric Developnm t                                              -          -          -          22.3         90.6       169.0       250.3
77-F      I77         M9                     7g.g       1,7070.2   l,7427.0
Current Maturities                                                                                           -         -          -            7.4         8.0         8.6          9.2
Total Debt                                                                                        77  127.7            293.4      42 0.       717.9      1,0406.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                           4.0             40.5      200.1       407.0      579.7       941.5      1,357.2     1,847.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                                          -               68:32      64;36      72:28       73:27       76:24       77:23        78:22
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968






EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1967-1974
(Cois Millions)
Actual              -     -      -      -Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                                     1967                 1968      1969       1910       1971       1972       1973        197h
Sales - Gwh
Bogota Systen                                         1,238               1,430     1,723       1,93L.     2,002      2,191     2,L408       2,645
INTERCONEXION                                                               -          -          -          210        263       2L42         -
Average Revenue - Centavos per kwh
Bogota System                                            18.3                18.0      17.5        17.5       17.9       18.0      17.9         17.9
INTERCONEXION                                                               -          -          -           10.9        9.L       8.9       -
Operating Revenues
Sales in Bogota                                         226.0               257.7      301.5      337.9      358.L4     39L,.2    1431.5      L473.7
Sales to INTERCONEXION                                  -                   -          -          -           22.9       2L4.7      21.5       -
Other Revenues                                           11.3                  3.0       2.0
237.3                260.7     303.5      337.9      381,3 1.139           L,53.0      173.7
Operating Expenses
Operation & Maintenance                                  70.5                62.L4      73.3       77.9       79.9       85.7       91.4        95.L4
Services Furnished to City                               19.8                 15.3       7.8        8.7        9.6       10.6       11.6        12.8
Purchased Power                                                              -          13.5       13.5        8.0      -
Depreciation                                             L,7.8               L49.3      50.7       52.6       58.2       66.0       70.7        72.2
Expenses of INTERCONEXION
Operation & Maintenance                                                      0.5       0.5        0.5        1.8        3.3        3.3         3.3
Depreciation                                                                                    -            1.2        L,.9       l .9        L.9
_3S.1                127.5     X,5.b      153.2      I5.        170,5      181.9       188,6
Operating Income                                              99.2                133.2     157.7      184.7      222.6      2148.1i    271.1       285.1
Other Income - Net                                             2.2                  1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0       1.0         1.0
Gross Income                                            101.14              1314.2      58,7    -I857        23         2149.      272.1       286.
Interest
BOGOTA Obligations                                       017.1                77.2      81.1       83.0       82.2        76.3      73.0        69.6
INTERCONEXION Obligations                            -___77 -                          -          -          -            5.7        5.6        j5.
L7.1                 77.2      8,         83.0       8          82.0       78.6        74.9
Charged:.to Construction                            (L,.6)              (7.1L)    (16.0)     (22.9)     (25.5)     -                      -
Interest Expense                                         _2_                _69.8       6          6o      -5,L7       6    0.1 o   78.6        74.9
Net Income                                                    58.9                 6L4.1    93.3      125.6      166.9       167.4     193.5       211.2
Appropriation for Public Lighting Expansion                    5.L4                 5.7       7.7       10.3       114.1       16.7      19.4        21.1
Rate of Return on Average Net Plant in Service                 7.2%                 7.L,%     8.8%      10.1%      11.%        11.1%     11.5%       12.1%         0
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



EMPRESA DE ENEaGIA ELFCTRICA DE BOGOTA
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1968-1974
(Gol$ Millions)
Year Ending December 31                                        1968       1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1978
SOURCES
Internal
Gross Income                                             134.2      158.7      185.7      223.6      249.h      272.1      286,1
Depreciation                                               49.3      50.7       52.6       58.2       66.0       70.7       72.2
Non-Cash Operating Expenses                                12.4      13.6       15.7       17.2       18.9       20.8       22.9
195.9      223,0       5-       299.0       33.-3     3T73-      381.2
External
Loan 537-CO and Joint Financings                           156.6     154.6       9h.3 
TOTAL SOURCES                                        35h.5     377.6      348.3      299.0      334,3      363.6      381.2
APPLICATIONS
Construction17
Third Power Expansion Program                             226.0     229,1      158.7       15.7        -          -          -
Transmission & Distribution Expansion                      -          6.3       23.3       45.7       33.6       27.8       27.5
Public Lighting Expansion                                   5.1       5.7        7.7       10.3       1,.1       16,7       19.4
Engineering Planninrg                                       5.0       3.5        3.5        3.5        -          -          -
236.7      27.        T93,2       75.2      47.7       4h.5      16
Investments in INTERCONEXION
Common Stock
Transmission System                                      2.2       15.0       10.2        5.0        -          -          -
Chivor Hydroelectric Project2/                            -         -          -          6.4       16.1       21.2       25.7
Bonds n       n                                                       - _                  17.3       53.]       61.0       63.3
2.2       15.7     -rN7f        28.7      - 69.2      o2.2       09.0
Debt Service
Interest
IBRD Loans & Joint Financings                            66.5      73.3       78.2       78.7       76.3       73.0       69.6
Venezuelan Bank                                          h.0        2.0        -          -          -          -          -
Colombian Banks                                           6.7       6.1        4.8        3.5        -          -          -
INTERCONEXION Obligations                                 _    -          -               -          5.7        5.6        5.3
77.2      -TI         T3.0 o822 BS70                             7 4..9
Amortization
IBRD Loans & Joint Financings                           31.1       32.9       3L.9       37.0       53.8       57,1       60.5
Venezuelan Bank                                           -        21j.5       -          -          _          _          _
Colombian Banks                                           7.3       0.2       25.0       26.8        _          _          _
--T        7-7_        599        6-3.7      53.8     -77-T       oO.5
Total Debt Service                                   115.,     139.0      142.9      146.o      135.8      135.7      135.4
Increase in Working Capital                                      2.6       3.7        3.0        h.0        h.0        2.2        2.1
IOTAL APPLICATIONS                                  356.B     402.3      349.3      253.9      256.7      264.6      273.14
Annual Increase (Decrease) in Cash                              (2.3)     (24.7)     (1.0)      45.1       77.6       99.0      107.8
Cash on Hand - Year End                                         39.1      1h.4       13.4       58.5      136.1      235.1      342.9
1/ Excludes interest charged to construction.
2/ Includes interest during construiction 3n foreign loari for Chivor.
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets - 19     1974
(Coi$ Millions)
Actual                  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                                   1967                   1968         1969          1970         1971          1972         1973          1974
ASSETS
Gross Plant in Service                                  2,038.2                2,125.1       2,145.1      2,276.5      2,593.6       2,905.4       2,969.1      3,024.0
Reserve for Depreciation                             259.4                  308.7        359.4         412.0       f47O.2         536.2        606.9         679.1
Net Plant in Service                                    T,77B97                716          T,7977        T64.        -2,-123T.1     2,369.2       2322         2, 31)..9
Work in Progress                                          205.9                  362.8        603.4         688.1        471.7         207.6         188.4        180.4
Net Fixed Assets                              I,77177               TT7T          2,309.       2,552,6       291                        25.6          2,525.3
Current Assets
Cash                                                  414                   39.1         14.4          13.4         58.5         136.1        235.1         342.9
Other - Net                                           16.0                   18.6         22.3          25.3         29.3          33.3         35.5          37.6
5T77      5     1      ___           36.7      3     6 .7                                 270.6         30A.5
Other Assets - Net                                         33.7                   33.7          33.7         33.7          33.7         33.7          33.7         33.7
Investmaents in INTEROONEXION                               1.0                    3.2         18.2          28.4         57.1         126.3        208.            7.
TOTAL ASSETS                            TF7F2                  2,273.7       2,4777.7     2,653.4                                               3,237.0
LIABILITIES
Equitty
Capital & Surplus                                    473.8                  538.2        631.5         757.1        924.0       1,091.       1,284.        1,496.1
Reserve for Employees                                 53.8                   66.2          79.8         95.5        112.7         131.6         152.        '175.3
Reserve for Revaluation                              441.6                  411.6        441.6         111.6        441.6         441.6         441.6        441.6
969.2                1,06.0       1,152.9        ,2.2         ,7i.,3 -1,4               i7    9       2,113.0
Long Term Debt
IERD Loans & Joint Financings                        992.7                1,118.1      1,238.1       1,295.1      1,241.6       1,184.5      1,124.0       1,059.8
Venezuelan Bank                                       24.5                   -            -             -            -             -             -            -
Colombian Banks                                      52.0                    51.8         26.8
i,009        .        2 1,170.2     1,26 .9       1,295.4                    1,,121.0                  1TV05T.
Current Maturities                                         38.4                   57.6          59.9         63.8          53.8         57.1          60.5         64.2
Total Debt                                    1,127.6                           1,21.6         1,312                                    T.5           1,124.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        2,076.8               2,273.8       2,77.7       2,653.4       2,773.7      2,906.2       3,063.4      3,237.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    53:47                  51:46        53:47         51:49        47:53         43:57         39:61        35:65
August 21, 1968
Revised October 10, 1968



EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Electric Department
Actual and Forecast Income Statements    1967-1974
(Col$ Millions)
Actual               - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                                    1967                1968      1969       1970       1971      1972       1973       197h
Sales - Gwh
Medellin System                                      1,163               1,287    1405       1,532      1,670      1,820     1,984       2,162
INTERCONEXION                                          _-                            -          -          211       264       242         -
Average Revenue - Centavos per kwh1
';edellin Systeim                                       135                 17.2      18.5       18.5       18.5      18.5       198,       18;5
INTERCONEXION-                                                             -         -          -           l0L         9.1       9.8       -
Operating Revenues
Sales in Medelli.n                                     157.3               221.7     259.9      283.4      309.0      336.7     367.0       ho00,
Sales to INTERCONEXION                                 -                   -         -          -           21.9       24.0      23.7
Other Revenues                                           6.9                 7.6       8.3        9.1       10.1       11.1      12.1        13.2
_ 161X.2            229.3     27.2       292.5 21,Tf           371.8     E           L13.2
Operating    enses
Operation & Maintenance                                 51.3                59.5      69.0       80.0       92.1      107,6     124.B       144.8
Contribution to City                                     7.3                10.1      11.9       12.9       15.1       16.L      17.8        18.3
Depreciation                                            30.8                27.4      27.4       27.4       60.0       60.3      62.4        64.5
Expenses of INTERCONEXION
Operation & Maintenance                                                    0.5       0.5        0.5        1.L        2.7       2.7         2.7
Depreciation                                                             -                                 1.2       t4.9       L.9        L4.9
_  °9.4-10dT _9.                 BO,       120.5      170.5      191.9     212.b       235.2
Operating Income                                             74.8               131.8     159.)iX    171.7      170.5      179.9     190.2       178.0
Interest
Medellin Obligations                                    460                           70.9       712.       72.        697       6           bS.
INTERCONEXION Obligations                              _-                                                    -          5.7       5.6        5.3
gh  5F3.S    70.9       712.5      72. ri     75.4      725         70 7
Charged to Construction                           (15.2)              (28.6)    (41.8)     (L6.4)      (1.0)      (2.9)     (4.4)       (5.7)
Interest Expense                                        26.4                30.2      29.1       28.1       71.4       72.5     68.1         6   o 
Net Income                                                   L8.4               101.6     130.3      143.6       99.1      107.4     122.1       113.0
Rate of Return on Average Net Plant in Service                7.8%               13.9%     17.h%      19.2%      11.4Z       8.6%      9.1%        8.5%
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Electric Department
Forecast Sources an Applications of Funds 1968-19774
(CoI$ Millions)
Year Ending December 31                                       1968       1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974
SOURCES
Internal
Operating Incoms                                         131.8     159.4      171.7      170.5      179.9      190.2      178.0
Depreciation                                             27.4       27.4       27.I       60.0       60.3       62.4       64.5
159.2      1XR575     199.1      230,5      2UO-.2     252,6     _____
External
Loan 369-CO                                             191.4      154.9       79.3        _     -               - _
Local Currency Credits                                   55.5       25.0        -
214b-9     !7'         79.3        -          _ -
TOTAL SOURCES                                       406.1     366.7      278.4      230.5      240.2      252.6      2h2.5
APPLICATIONS
Constructio07/
Guatape Program                                          309.7     233.4      101.5        -          -          -          -
Relocation Program, Guatape Reservoir                     2.2        2.1       32.7       18.4       15.8       25.0       15.0
Transmission & Distributicn Expansion                     -          -          -         81.,       84.4       86.0       88.o
311.9      77         13142      -7   T7               111.0      103.0
Investments in INTERCONEXION
Common Stock
Transmission System                                     2.2       15.0       10.2        5.0        --                    -
Chivor Hydroelectric Project2/                           -         -          -          6.4       16.1       21.2       25.7
Bonds                                                      -         - n                   3.7       11.3       12.9       13.h
2.2      -:Z57      -I5 15.I              -TF.T      -3-7.7    -3 T.
Debt Service
Interest
IBRD Loans                                             52.6       60.3       65.o       65.3       63.5       61.7       59.8
Other F/g Loans                                          1.0       O.6        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6
Local Currency Credits                                  5.2       10.0        8.9        6.5        5.6        4.6        5.0
INTERCONEXION Obligations                                -          -         -          -          5.7        5.6        5.3
37,        77U7       77:3        72.4     7-5.        72.5       70.7
Amortization
IBRD Loans                                             17.1       18.2       19.2       20.4       21.6       22.8       23.9
Other F/E Loans                                        10.9        1.9        1.9        1.9        1.9        1.9        1.9
Local Currency Credits                                  1.0         9.0      30.3        8.6        9.2        7.2        5.2
29,0       291        571,     -30.       -32.7        31,9     -31.0
Total Debt Service                                  87.8      100.0      125.9      103.3      108.1      104.4      101.7
Increase in Working Capital                                     2.4      10.0        3.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
IOTAL APPLICATIONS                                  404.3      360.5     273.3      220.2      237.7      251.5      245.8
Annual Increase (Decrease) in Cash                              1.8        6.2       5.1       10.3        2.5        1.1       (3.3)        C
Cash on Hand - Year End                                         7.0       13.2      18.3       28.6       31.1       32.2       28.9
1/ Excludes interest charged to constriic,ion.
5/ Includes interest durirg construction on foreign loa1! for Chivor.
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
ElectriLc Department
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets  1967-1974
(Col$ Millions)
Actual               - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                                 1967                1968         1969        1970         1971         1972         1973         1974
ASSETS
Gross Plant in Service                                1,095.4             1.095.4      1,095.4     1,095.4      2,402.1      2,412.2      2,194.6      2,581.9
Reserve for Depreciation                           136.8               1614.2       191.6       219.0        279.0        339.3        401.7        466.2
Net Plant in Service                                    958,6               931.2     -908 7037                 2,123.1      2,072.9      2,092.9      2,1i17
Work in Progress                                        545.3               885.8      1 163 1      1,343.7        137.8        230.8       263.8        285.2
Net Fixed Assets                        1,503,81770 h                                       2                2,220.9  2,303.7    7
Current Assets
Cash                                                 5.2                 7.0         13.2        18.3         28.6         31.1         32.2         28.9
Other - Net                                         27.1                29.5         39.5        42.5         44.5         46.5         48.5         50.5
32.3               3T.5          -2760. 871                                         807          79.4
Other Assets - Net                                        3.3                 3.3          3.3         3.3          3.3          3.3          3.3          3*3
Investments in INTERCONEXION                              1.0                 3.2         18.2        28.4         43.5         70.9        105.0        144.1
TOTAL ASSETS             1,8       6       0.5             2,141.    1               2,312.6     2,380.  8                 2. 5         2,627.7
LIABILITIES
Equity
iapital & Surplus                                    406.2               507.8        638.1       761.7        880.8        988.2      1,110.3      1,223.3
Reserve for Revaluation                            338.5               338.5        338.5        338.5       338.5        338,5        338.5        338.5
Other Reserves                                      12.0                12.0         12.0         12.0         12.0        12,0         12.0         12.0
_7_                  TB9                       ,13 9 8 833,1608                                  1I;7 i  i
Long Term Debt
IDRD Loans                                         696.8               870.0      1,005.7     1,064.6      1,043.0      1,020.2        996.3        971.2
Other F/E Loans                                     25.0                23.1         21.2        19.3         17.4         15.5         13.6         11.7
Local Currency Credits                              33.0                79.          74.2        65.6         56.4         49.2         44.0         38.8
--777               _7972.6      1,101.1      1,149,5      1,116,8        1,0b4,    T,053.9      1,021.7
Current Maturities                                       29.0                29.1         51.4        30.9         32.7         31.9         31.0         32.2
Total Debt                                    73_.7             1,uu7          12.5       1,8 0.4                  1,116,8                                  '
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      1,540.5             1,860.0      2,11.       2,312.6      2,380.8      2,455.5      2,545.7      2,627.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                                  51:49               54:46        54:46        51:49        48:52       45:55        43:57        4C:60
August 21, 1968
Revised October 8, 1968



CENTRAL HIDROELECTRICA DEL RIO ANCHICAYA, LTDA.
C0PORAP TON AIITHQOMA RFlTWAT. nAL ML CAHrA
Consolidated Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1967-1974
(Col$ Millions)
Actual               - - - - - - - -                     Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                               1967               1968           1969         1970         1971         1972         1973         1974
Sales (Net) - Gvh                                    846                 914          1,005        1,106        1,217        1,338        1,472        1,619
Average Revenue - Centavos per kwh.-                  12.0                16.7           19.7         20.7         21.7         21.7         21.7         21.7
Operating Revenues
Sales                                           101.9              152.9           198.4        229.2        264.4        290.6        319.6        351.7
Other Revenues                                    1.9                0.5             0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5          0.5
_                     _              _ 1T229,7                _64.      -   W79-U     _32           352.2
Operating Exnses
Operation & Maintenance                          43.8               54.0            51.1         48.2         48.2         48.2         52.9         31.4
Purchased Power                                   4.5                6.8            15.0         26.2         44.6         48.5         45.0         -
Depreciation                                     20.7               30.0            30.1         31.3         31.9         32.4         48.1         63.5
Expenses of INTERCONEXION
Operation & Maintenance                          -                 0.4             0.4          0.8          1.3          2.4          2.4          2.4
Depreciation                                                        -             -            -             1.2          4.9          4.9          4.9
-b@T-                912-7        --767              -      - T-T7      -T-T67       --1   .-       102.2
Operating Income                                      34.8                62.2          102.3        123.6        137.7        154.7        166.8        250.0
Interest
CVC/CHIDRAL Obligations                                             5,                           5.0                                    75,          77,
INTERCONEXION Obligations                          -                  -                          -                          5.7          5.5          5.5
4-0.2              570.2            50.4         53.9      --SIb74r 7                --6             83.1
Charged to Construction                     (7.1)                 -             (0.5)        (6.9)      (17.5)       (29.3)       (39.8)       (22.4)
Interest Expense                                 33.1              50,2         -_-_9_J 47.0             45.4                           40.o         60.7
Net Income                                             1.7                12.0           52.4          76.6        93.8        109.3        126.0        189.3
Rate of Return on Average Net Plant in Service         3.5%                6.2%            9.9%       12.0%        13.3%        15.2%        12.7%        15.7%
NOTES:
1/ On consolidated basis including CVC resales.
Tariff increase of 2 centavos assumed, effective July 1, 1970.
(Tariffs adjusted on July 1, 1968 from 13.5 to 19.5 centavos.)
August 21, 1968
Revised October 9, 1968



ANINRFX 6
T ale 1
CEN'TRAL HIDROELKCTRICA DEL RIO ANCHICAYA, LTDA.
CORPOCACICN AUT(NOVA BROrINAL DEL CAI7CA
Forecast bources and Apiications of Punds iVc8-1.97L
( CoJ.S Millicns )
Year Ending December 31                                        1960       1969       1970       1971      1972        1973      1971
SOURCES
i nternaf
Operating Income                                          62.2      102.3      123.6      137.7      15$..7     166.9      250.C
Depreciation                                              30.0       30.1       31.3       31.9       32.1,      4r.1       63.,
r77                              U69.6 U7.               7. T  _3 
External
Grants & Contributions
National Goverrment Budget Contribution                   13.0        -          -          -          -          -          -
National Government Grants                                55.0       50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0
Department Goverrment Grant                                0.8        -          -          -         _           _          _
Other Contributions                                        6.1        -          -          -          -          -          -
7          T50,0                S.o                ,     -          -
CVC Tax Revenues
Real Property                                             12.1        6.1        6.2        6.3        6.4        6.5        6.6
Liquor                                                     2.6        2.9        3.2        3.5        3,8        4.2        4.o
r7        -9,b -                  7         r          r           11.2
Borrowings
U. S. AID                                                 12.0        2.2        -          -          -          -          -
IDB                                                       15.8        1.6        -          -          -          -          _
Propal Paper Co.                                          22.0        -
Suppliers' Credits                                        15.6        -               -          -
Future Foreign Loans
Alto Anchicaya Project                                   -         35.9      165.8      213.1      226.6      181.           7
Transmission Expansion                                   -          0.6        8.1       15.7        7.,        5.8       16,8
65,2 I        J.U3    T7      7     E       236.0     1T7.9       2T-
TOTAL SOURCES                                       269.0      231.7      3o8.2      458.2     18'1,3      613.5      365.8
APPLICATIONS
constraction,A/
Alto Anchicaya Project                                    27.5       69.7      250.G      293.9      295.7      200.2      Lb.,
Transmission Expansion                                    39.8       19.4       16.2       22.6       12.5       15.1       22.1
f          T7FT   o9.1           3o5        36!.2    25.3         70.5
Investments in INTERCONEXION
Comrmon Stock
Transmission System         2/                           2.2       15.0       10.2        5.0        -          -          -
Chivor Hydroelectric Project-                            -          -          -          6.4       16.1       21.2       25.7
Bonds  "     "                                             -          -          -          1.3        3.9        4.5        6.6
2.2   120.2 1                             2   .      T   7       30.3
Investments in CVC Subsidiaries                                 1.3       12.0       12.0       12.0       12.0      12.0        12r.
=5      T7FT5       22?        2.         32.0       37.7      TSTS3
Debt Service
Interest
U. S. AID Loans                                          2.6        3.1        3.0        2.8        2.5        2.3        2.0
IDB  Loan                                                0.9        1.7        2.6        2.6        2.3        2.1        1.8
IBRD Loans                                              32.7       30.7       28.5       27.2       25,6       23.6       21.5
Other F/E Loans                                         14.2        9.7        8.2        6.6        8.6        2.6        -
Future F/E Loans
Alto Anchicaya Project                                 -          0.5        6.9       17.5       29.3       39.        L7-5
Transmission Expansion                                 -          4.7        4.7       6.7        4.7        6.7        6.5
INTERCON3XION Obligations                                -          -          -                       7 .±,'           -S:4
70 7               _          _        -38069
50.2       50.6      3T          61.6      1.7
Amortization
U. S. AID Loans                                          -          -          1.1       2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1
IDB Loan                                                 0.2        1.2        2,1       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
IFR3l Loans                                             31.6       32.9       34.7      32.0       36.3       36.5       38 l,
Other F/E Loans                                         96.6       10.5       12.0       13.6      15.6       17.6        -
Future F/E Loans
Alto Anchicaya Project                                 -          -          -          -         -           -          7.5
Transmission Expansion                                 -          -          -         3.7        3.7        3.7        3.7
TM         -47T                   53n       r7           r
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                  178.6       95.0      103.8     114.6      132.4      142.5      136.8
Increase in Working Capital                                     -          9.7       2.0        2.0        6.0        5.7        6.2
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                  249.4      220.8      392,2     458.0      476.6      601.2      255.8
Annual Increase (Decrease) in Cash                             (o04)      10.9       (4.0)      (0.2)      l.7       12.3      110.0
Cash on Hand - Year End                                         4.8       15.7       11.7      11.9       16.6       28.9      138.9
1/ Excludes interes charged to construction.
T/ Includes interest during construction on foreign loan for Chivor.
August 21, 1968
Revised October 9. 1968



CENTRAL HIDROELECTRICA DEL RIO ANCHICAYA, LTDA.
CORPORACION AUTONDMA REGIONAL DEL CAUCA
Consolidated Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets 1967-1974
a(Col$ Millions)
Actual               - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31                               1967               1968          1969         1970        1971         1972         1973         1974
ASSETS
Gross Planytin Service                              1,105.6            1,209.2       1,217.0      1,263.6     1,284.1      1,301.5      1,947.5      2,589.1
Reserve for Depreciation                         136.8              166.8         196.9        228.2       260.1        292.5        340.6        404.1
Net Plant in Service                                  9688             1,042.h      1T020.1       1,035.4     1,021.0      1,012.0      1,606.9      2,1
Work in Progress                                       79.7               43.4         125.2        349.7       663.2        980.3        592.4         43.7
Net Fixed Assets                          1,018.5                          1,116.3      1,385.1      1,687.2     1,992.3      2,199.3
Current Assets
Cash                                               5.2                4.8          15.7         11.7        11.9         16.6         28.9        138.9
Other - Net                                       32.7               32.7          42.1         44.h        46.4         50.4         56.1         62.3
37.9               J7.S       -T 5                         8           67.0         85.0       20(.-
Other Assets - Net                                     26.3               26.3          26.3         26.3        26.3         26.3         26.3         26.3
Investments
CVC Subsidiaries                                   87                 9.9          21.9         33.9    4    39          57.9         69.9      --9-l 9
INTERCONEXION                                      1.0                3.2          18.2         28.4        11.1         61.1         86.8        117.1
_-9___                13 16 -                                87.0        119.0        156.7        199.0
TOTAL ASSETS                         1 122.3            ,162.7       1,269.       1529.8       1,858.8     2.204.6      2.655.2
LIABILITIES
Capital & Surplus                                270,3              373.9         485.3        621.3       774.9        944.4      1,081.1      1,281.6
Reserve for Revaluation                          112.7              112.7         112.7        112.7        112.7       112.7        112.7        112.7
383,0                486.6       ______         731.0       8B75       1,057.1      1,193-1      1.394.3
Long Term Debt
U. S. AID Loans                                   h3.2               55.2          56.3         54.2         52.1        50.0         47.9         h5.8
TDB Loan                                          11.0               25.6          25.1         23.1        21.1         19.1         17.1         15.1
IBRD Loans                                       52h.5              491.9         157.2        425.2        390.9       354.4        316.0        275.8
Other F/E Loans                                   31.9               58.8          46.8         33.2         17.6        -            -            -
Future  F/E Loans                                 -                  -             36.5        206.7       431.8        662.1        838.8        860.8
610 9              631.5 --73-17.  --67     *77E          913.5 7    l 1,085.6    1,219 .      1,197.5
Current Maturities                                    128.h               44.6          h9.9         53.h        57.7         61.9         53.7         63.4
Total Debt                                  739.3              676.1         671 o                     971.2      ,           1,273.5      1,260.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    1,122.3             1,269.8                   1,529.8 1,B58.8 26                    2,167.3 I                 oz
Debt/Equity Ratio                                66:31               58:h2        53:17        52:48        52:18       52:18        52:hP        47753      \0 ol
August 21, 1968
Revised October 9, 1968






g-                                              )   t MMEDELZ/N  SYSTEM                         BUCARAMANGA o
18.8 < 9 llir/  7._ .]                  TRiONERAS GUAOALUPE
080 OTA Area covered
--'by map
mRO GRANOEt
EC_A_OR)'/                                                      Pto.Berrio
ECUADOR    ,       RZ' 
/          N . /sWz~         1Env/gd6 CUA7TAPEf
I o   R U          j        MEDELLIN                    (VNARE)
0 QUIBDO                                                                                    T
TUNJA 0
/         }                                     /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUNJA
ESA/ERA     >Zipaquira                                              SS UILE 
CHf C   SKSTE41        , . tra<SUL
£0 Caro
Certoyo{      Pe rei r a               {                        eCr
5/  LArm?ele>                   9 /5OG-                BOGOTA SYSTEM
ZerZ t  C/CHATROLr4TO
:fi ff                    <' /            l ~~~~~~~C4/vOAS
t¢t/  Sevilla                        9   irad,t       1 AT
^,O S2j/  x   LAGUNETA  oVILLAVICENCIO
CAI IMA IF7/vgL                                                                  V  T
ANCHI/CAYA                 ,    v     Y; 
nt   Palmira                     = /                         COLOMBIA
INTERCONNECTION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PLANTS & TRANSMISSION LINES
/  *   Hydro plants
NEIVA                                Thermal plants
Local transmission lines
)   a/*  Local substations
Interconnection lines
POPAYA  <                     t~~~   X                                 *       Interconnection substations
Service area
0     25    5C      75    100
KILOMETERS
MARCH 1968                                                                                               IBRD-2245






