Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13448
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2759-GU)
AUGUST 16, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Operation Division 1
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2759 - GU)
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit=Quetzal=100 cents
Average Exchange Rate
1984                   US$1                    1.45
1985                   US$1                   2.63
1986                   US$l                   2.86
1987                   US$1                   2.70
1988                   US$1                   2.64
1989                   US$1                   2.85
1990                   US$1                   4.51
1991                   US$1                   5.03
1992                   US$1                   5.18
1993                   US$1                   5.74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2759 - GU)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)                         = 10,000 square meters
Metric Ton (mt)                          =2,200 pounds
Metric Ton (mt)                          =1,000 kg
Kilometer (km)                           =0.6215 miles
Kilometer (km)                           =1,000 meters
Cubic Meter (m3)                         = 1,000 liters
Liter                                    =1,000 milliliters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AP                         -Action Plan
EMPAGUA                    -Empresa Municipal de Agua de Guatemala
IMF                        -International Monetary Fund
LA                         -Loan Agreement
MO                         -Management/Operational Study
PA                         -Project Agreement
PCR                        -Project Completion Report
TA                         -Technical Agreement
TOR                        -Terms of Reference
Ws                         -Water and Sanitation
|This document has a restrcted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perforffiance of their l
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
August 16, 1994
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guatemala
Water Supply Rehabilitation Proiect (Loan 2759-GU)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Guatemala - Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2759-GU)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, with Part 11
contributed by the Borrower.
The project's objectives were a comprehensive rehabilitation of the physical, managerial and
financial status of the water supply services in Guatemala City. The Project design was over-ambitious
and Bank staff over-estimated the commitment of the central and local Governments and the
implementing agencies to project objectives.
Achievements were confined to purchases of computers and related technical assistance. Of the
US$30.00 million loan, US$25.26 million was canceled.
The outcome of the project is rated as highly unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely and
institutional development as negligible.
The quality of the PCR is good, with a frank description of the project's shortcomings. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA DE GUATEMALA (EMPAGUA);
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan 2759-GU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   ................................................                                                                                 (i)
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .........................................  (ii)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  .................. 1
1.   Project Identity ........................................... 1
2.   Background ............................................. 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description ............................... 2
4.      Project Design  and Organization  .................................   4
5.   Implementation ...........................................5 
6.      Financial Performance of EMPAGUA    .............................  9
7.   Results ................................................  11
8. Performance .13
9. Lessons to be Learned .15
Annex 1 .17
PART H: Comments of the Borrower and Executing Agency ..................... 18
PART HI. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:  Project Timetable   ....................................... 22
Table 2:  Actual and Forecast Cost and Sources of Financing    .................. 23
Table 3: Cumulative Disbursements .................................. 24
Table 4: Disbursements by Category ................................. 25
Table 5: Project Results: Part A .................................... 26
Table 6: EMPAGUA Financial Performance ............................ 28
Table 7: Key Performance Indicators ................................. 29
Table 8:  Compliance With  Covenants ................................. 30
Table 9: Bank Missions ......................................... 33






. i -
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA DE GUATEMALA (EMPAGUA)
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan 2759-GU
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply Rehabilitation Project,
Loan 2759-GU in the amount of US$23.0 million, approved on October 14, 1986. The Borrower
was the Republic of Guatemala, which relent loan proceeds to the Municipal Government of
Guatemala City. The Executor of the project was the Empresa Municipal de Agua de Guatemala
(EMPAGUA). The loan was intended to help EMPAGUA to finance: (i) technical assistance
(TA); (ii) operational improvements; and (iii) additional water production capacity. Except for
some modest equipment purchases, only the TA component was executed, because the Bank
suspended disbursements on all loans to Guatemala.
Although the loan was approved on October 14, 1986, the corresponding agreements with
the Bank were not signed until August 26, 1988, due to a lengthy ratification process in the
Guatemalan Congress, which led to a renegotiation of, inter alia, the project description and
certain dated covenants. The Bank did not declare the loan effective until April 14, 1989, seven
months after loan approval; the delay was caused by: (i) slow action on the part of the Municipal
Government in considering the Project Agreement, the relending agreement with the
Government, and the corresponding legal opinion on the loan, and (ii) negotiation of a payment
plan for settling accounts with the national power company.
During the 1980s, Guatemala's relations with the international financial community
deteriorated. In 1990, relations with the Bank were adversely affected. Beset with economic and
financial problems, the Government was unable to meet its debt-service obligations to the Bank.
The Bank then suspended disbursements on all loans to Guatemala, except for disbursements for
Loan 2579-GU to finance the TA component. Total disbursements (US$3.6 million) amounted
to just over 15% of the loan proceeds. On December 22, 1992, when disbursement suspension
had already been lifted, the Bank canceled the undisbursed Loan balance at the Government
request. The final disbursement was on September 4, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department II, Latin America and Caribbean Region, and the Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Part I and III). Part II of the report was prepared by the Borrower after
it reviewing Part I and III.
Preparation of the PCR started in September 1993 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Project Supervision Reports, progress
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, interviews with Bank staff and
intemal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA DE GUATEMALA (EMPAGUA)
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan 2759-GU
EVALUATION SUMAARY
General.
1.    Project Objectives. The project was to improve and expand the plant facilities for the
water system in Guatemala City. It was an important step in the Government's goal of reaching
national service-level as established in the National Plan for the Water Decade, thereby reducing
the incidence of enteric and diarrheal diseases. Within the project, the Government also wanted
to address issues related to sector organization and problems within the Empresa Municipal de
Agua de Guatemala (EMPAGUA). Some of them were related to the institution itself (i.e.
organization, operations, management, etc.); others, related to tariffs and finances (para. 2.01).
Additional objectives supported by the Bank, also included settling large overdue accounts
payable owed by EMPAGUA to the national power company, this settlement would place
EMPAGUA on the road to financial self sufficiency. The Bank felt that its experience would
help local officials design a project which would properly address the above issues and problems
(paras. 3.01).
2.    Project Definition, Loan Amount, and Borrower. To reach the above objectives, local
officials, with Bank assistance, designed a project consisting of: (i) technical assistance (TA) to
address management/operational (MO) problems at EMPAGUA and shortcomings of the tariff
system, plus studies of water resources and distribution expansion (Part A); (ii) operational
improvements (Part B); (iii) system expansion (Part C); and (iv) acquisition of spare parts (Part
D) (para. 3.02). The Bank agreed to lend US$23.0 million equivalent to the Republic of
Guatemala (the Borrower), which would relend the proceeds of the loan to the Municipality of
Guatemala City (the Executing Agency) under terms and conditions approved by the Bank for
the execution, through EMPAGUA, of the project (para. 3.07).



- iii -
Implementation Experience.
3.    Variances. There were major delays in the project: (i) the loan was signed 22 months
behind schedule; (ii) it was declared effective seven months after loan signing ; (iii) the Bank
suspended disbursements (except for TA) on all loans to Guatemala (March 1990- December
1992), and (iv) the Government obtained new financing from a bilateral lender (1992) on terms
more attractive than the Bank loan. These setbacks led to major project variances between the
planned and actual project implementation dates, the effective project components that were
actually carried out, and the cost of the project. There were also major variations with respect
to the requirements for contracting consultants and for the execution of their activities.
4.    Dates. The actual initial project implementation date was August 1989, about 30 months
later than expected at appraisal. This date coincided with the actual effectiveness of the
consultancy contract for Part A. Underlying the delayed project start-up, there were delays with
respect to loan signing and loan effectiveness, which reflected the unwillingness of the
Guatemala Government and the Municipal Government of Guatemala City to spend "political
capital" to advance the loan approval process at a time of macroeconomic distress in Guatemala.
Because of similar political problems, the project execution ended on April 1992, about three
years in advance of the date expected at appraisal. This date coincided with the termination of
work by the consultants in charge of the studies on Part A (paras 5.02-5.06),and also coincided
with the date when the Bank suspended all disbursements on loans to Guatemala.
5.    Components. About 73 % of Part A of the Project was completed. Except for some small
purchases of meters, vehicles, and spare parts, no work was carried out on Parts B, C, and D,
following the suspension of disbursements on all Bank loans to Guatemala on March 20, 1990.
The only exception to the suspension was the disbursements to finance the TA component.
Clearly, given the incomplete state of execution, the actual and expected projects are not
comparable (para. 5.08).
6.    Cost. As indicated above, because of the suspension of disbursements by the Bank on
all loans to Guatemala, the actual and expected costs are not comparable: US$4.84 million vs.
US$30.0 million. Bank financing, which covered the foreign cost of the project, amounted to
US$3.61 million; EMPAGUA and the Government provided the balance of financing: US$1.23
million (para. 5.09).
7.    Consultants. At appraisal, the Bank helped draft the terms of reference for all the studies
under the TA component, which reflected the expectation that different consultants would
execute the different components of Part A, but under separate contracts. Contrary to such
expectation, EMPAGUA negotiated a single contract covering all studies with a single consulting
consortium. The Bank did not object to the contract. However, in spite of to the advice of the
Bank, the consultant firm drafted an initial Action Plan (AP), which placed primary emphasis
on water resources and distribution expansion and gave only secondary emphasis to solving MO
problems. The Bank recommended a revision of the AP to place primary emphasis on solving



- iv -
MO problems. EMPAGUA directed the consultants to revise the AP in line with the Bank's
recommendation (paras. 5.10-5.15).
Results.
8.    General. As mentioned above, the Bank suspended disbursements on all loans to
Guatemala, and therefore only the TA component was executed. As a result, what was actually
achieved under the project fell short of what was expected at appraisal. The studies carried out
under Part A only led to improvements with respect to commercial operations and management
systems; but no work was carried out on Parts B, C, & D of the project, except for the purchase
of some meters, specialized vehicles and spare parts (papas. 7.02 and 7.03). There was,
however, some improvement with respect to most technical performance indicators. Primarily
because of revenue shortfalls, EMPAGUA did not improve its financial performance as much
as expected. Agreement on a plan for settling overdue debts owed by EMPAGUA to the national
power company was an important accomplishment (para. 7.01).
9.    Execution of Part A of the Project. Accomplishments under Part A were positive,
although incomplete. The Action Plan devised for EMPAGUA focused on improving, through
computerization, its commercial practices, accounting/budgetary systems, and inventory control.
These improvements were expected to generate benefits in the form of increased efficiency, cost
reduction, and higher cash flows. The consultants completed the water-resources study, laying
the groundwork for future drilling of water supply wells. By agreement with the Bank,
EMPAGUA did not move forward on the system expansion studies. Still pending, in varying
degrees, was work on EMPAGUA's organizational problems (autonomy, reporting relationships,
and personnel); operating problems (maintenance practices; operations efficiency at treatment
plants; pipeline leak control); and installation of devices for metering. If completed with the
recommendations implemented, these studies would have been expected to generate benefits.
EMPAGUA's new tariff system, which was introduced in September 1992, is expected to
stimulate water conservation by customers and to generate enhanced revenues (para. 7.02).
10.   Finances. The years 1988-1991 covered actually only four effective months of project
implementation; and during this period, the financial performance of EMPAGUA was below
what was expected. Revenues for 1988-1991 covered only out of pocket cash operating costs and
a portion of the debt service. Working capital needs, investment expenditures, and the remaining
debt service were not covered. EMPAGUA did not meet the covenanted ratios for operating
expenses as a percent of revenues for financial self-sufficiency. Creditors and suppliers provided
involuntary financing to EMPAGUA (paras. 6.04-6.08). The primary responsibility for this
situation lay with the Municipal Government, which established the level and structure of tariffs
(para. 8.04).
11.   Sustainability. Improved water use by consumers, enhanced revenues, reduced costs,
improved cash flow, and administrative and operational efficiencies can be expected, if
management at EMPAGUA continues to improve operations and finances, and if the Guatemala



City council establishes appropriate tariff levels and encourages full implementation of the
improvements recommended under the project. If such support does not materialize, the full
benefits of the new computerized, budgetary and account systems, and inventory control
procedures, which were completed under Part A of the Project, will not be achieved, and what
has been already accomplished may be eroded and destroyed (para. 7.05).
Lessons to be Learned
12.   Selection of TA Objectives. The first lesson to be learned is that TA objectives have to
be selected very carefully, based on a careful examination of the technical, institutional, and
financial needs of the beneficiary, and the objectives should reflect a realistic assessment of what
improvements the beneficiary can incorporate within a given time frame. The MO study sought
to accomplish too many objectives at the same time (para. 8.07). EMPAGUA would have been
better served if the MO study would have focused on improving primarily the quality of service
and the finances, leaving for a later date the development of measures to improve autonomy and
organization (para. 9.01).
13.   Contracting Consultants. The next lesson relates to the contracting of consultants.
Engineering/technical studies generally should not be linked under the same contract to
institutional studies, as the required experiences and disciplines are too different. Clearly, it was
a mistake for one contract to cover studies related to water resources, distribution expansion,
and a universe of MO problems. On the other hand, if more than one firm and one contractor
are involved in the execution of institutional studies, there should be a lead firm with overall
responsibility for coordinating the coherence and quality of the work of the other firms. Finally,
contracts for institutional studies should only be awarded to consulting firms with qualified
operational experience and, furthermore, the personnel assigned to the study should train their
counterparts as part of their work (para. 9.02).
14.   Project Ownership. A third and important lesson is that during project preparation the
Bank should assess not only the sense of project ownership on the part of the Borrower and
Executing Agency, but should include a survey of the local loan approval process, the
procedures for approval, and the measures required to assure minimum delays following Bank
approval. If such a survey and assessment indicates a high probability of major loan-approval
delays, as occurred with this project, the Bank should consider deferral of the project until there
is sufficient support to assure speedy approvals (para. 9.03).
15.   Grace Period. The final lesson is that, after loan approval, if long delays in loan signing
or for the declaration of effectiveness appear likely to materialize, Bank staff should advise the
Borrower in writing as to the Bank's policy, which does not allow changing the grace period
after loan approval and on how such delays affect not only the grace period but also the
execution of the project. This advice might help the Borrower and the Executing Agency to
understand more fully the actual costs of any delays (para. 9.04).



GUATEMALA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EMPRESA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA DE GUATEMALA (EMPAGUA)
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan 2759-GU
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name       : Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
Borrower           : Republic of Guatemala
Beneficiary        : Municipality of Guatemala City, acting through
Executing Agency   : Empresa Municipal de Agua de Guatemala (EMPAGUA)
Loan Number        : 2759-GU
RVP Unit           : Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country            : Guatemala
Sector             : Water and Sanitation (WS)
2.          Background
2.01        Sector Objectives. In 1983, to address the problems of low service levels in
Guatemala and related health hazards, the Government established a National Plan for the Water
Decade, which established ambitious service-level targets for the 1990s. A starting point for
reaching these targets, and also a long-standing priority of the Government, given the past and
expected growth of Guatemala City, was to improve and expand the physical plant of the
municipal water company, the Empresa Municipal de Agua (EMPAGUA). The Government
understood the need to address the institutional (autonomy, operations, etc.) and financial
problems of EMPAGUA and also the problems of sector organization and coordination.
2.02        EMPAGUA's Institutional Problems. As a branch of the Guatemala City
Government, EMPAGUA is not legally incorporated and lacks autonomy. Since most
management decisions were subject to approval by the Municipal Council, EMPAGUA was a
weak institution. The legal status of EMPAGUA and its internal structure needed to be assessed
with a view toward improving its operational and management efficiency.
2.03        Poorly conducted operations and lack of maintenance affected the quality of
services rendered by EMPAGUA, i.e., lack of a reliable and well-managed water service. There
were also problems with respect to water quantity and quality, plus uneven water supply pressure.



- 2 -
Water treatment was inadequate, leading to high levels of consumption of chemicals and
electricity. The volumes of water unaccounted-for (50%) were also very high. These problems
were thought to be caused by: obsolete institutional structures, wrong operational and maintenance
procedures, illegal consumer connections, and pipeline leaks. Management problems included
deficient commercial and accounting/budgetary systems and poor customer services. The
consumers cadastral survey was incomplete.
2.04        The financial performance of EMPAGUA was also poor. The prevailing tariff
system generated such an inadequate level of revenues that in 1985 operating costs exceeded
revenues by 30%. Due to its financial stringency, EMPAGUA had not paid its social security and
electricity bills for a number of years, with the result that accounts payable amounted to almost
three times the revenues.
2.05        The tariff structure was poorly designed. The starting point for water service was
the sale of water rights on the capital market to individual customers. Ownership entitled the
customer to one or more connections ("pajas"), a measure of water equal to 60 m3 per month
(equivalent to 15,850.3 gallons/month). The structure of charges consisted of: (a) a one time up-
front charge for the title and connection; (b) a fixed monthly charge up to the "paja" entitlement;
and (c) a monthly charge for excess consumption after the fixed charge. The tariff system was
insufficiently flexible with respect to levels of consumption. In addition, because consumption
under the fixed charge was generally larger than average consumption, the tariff system did not
encourage conservation on the part of large consumers. At the same time, low-income consumers,
who consumed less than the minimum allowance paid a very high price per m3 consumed. High
entry fees for title and connection made the system too expensive for many poor people, thereby
encouraging illegal connections.
2.06        Country Economic Context. The project was planned and executed in economic
circumstances so difficult that the 1980s constituted a lost decade for Guatemala in economic
terms. Prior to 1985, the economy had stalled, mainly because of external economic factors and
a self-defeating set of fiscal, monetary, and multiple-exchange-rate policies. However, by 1990,
growth had been restored, but it was accompanied by deteriorating merchandise terms of trade,
depreciating exchange rates, increasing inflation, rising public sector deficits, and arrears to
external creditors, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Because
of the arrears, the Bank suspended disbursements on all loans to Guatemala in March 1990,
except for disbursements for the technical assistance (TA) component of the project. In 1991, a
new Administration inaugurated a series of stabilization measures--tighter monetary policy,
increased tax collections and reduced expenditures. In 1992, the Bank, having reached an
agreement with Guatemala for liquidating its overdue debt service, resumed disbursements on its
loans to Guatemala.
3.          Project Objectives and Description
3.01        Objectives. The main project objectives was to strengthen EMPAGUA's



- 3 -
capabilities to provide good service without recourse to operating subsidies. The detailed
objectives were: (a) to improve the autonomy of EMPAGUA by (i) modernizing its organization,
operations, and management systems; (ii) repairing and reinforcing its distribution system; and
(iii) increasing water resources; and (b) to improve the finances of EMPAGUA by rationalizing
the structure of water tariffs. The Bank felt that its experience with water projects would be useful
to Guatemala. With respect to improving the autonomy of EMPAGUA, the Bank conditioned loan
approval to the reception of a Letter of Intent from the Municipality giving ample autonomy to
EMPAGUA. With respect to the other objectives--modernizing operations, repairing the treatment
and distribution systems, improving finances, and rationalizing tariffs--the Government,
EMPAGUA, and the Bank agreed on, respectively, the project description and financial measures
as set forth below.
3.02        Project Description. The project consisted of: Part A: training and TA, consisting
of management/operational (MO) studies, system expansion studies at the feasibility and design
level, and water resource studies; Part B: operational improvements, which included
rehabilitation of wells and pumping stations, equipment purchases, replacement of house
connections, etc.; Part C: system expansion, which consisted of drilling additional wells to
increase water supply; Part D: acquisition of spare parts for vehicles, pumps, etc; and Part E:
water supply sector study. A sector organization study--considered an initial project component--
was completed by the Bank before the loan agreement became effective and thus eliminated from
project description (para. 3.05). Given the objective of modernizing, and improving efficiency
of operations at EMPAGUA, from the point of view of the Bank, Part A was the heart of the
project. Annex 1 sets forth additional details on the various project components.
3.03        To improve the finances of EMPAGUA, the Bank conditioned the loan to the
following measures: (i) implementation of a major tariff increase (77 % as of August 1986), which
was a condition of loan approval; and (ii) presentation of a satisfactory payment plan to reduce
the overdue indebtedness of EMPAGUA to the national power company, which was a condition
of loan effectiveness. To the same end, the Project Agreement (PA) included covenants specifying
annual targets for: (i) working capital and self financing ratios; (ii) outstanding accounts
receivable (on a monthly basis); (iii) current ratio and (iv) cash operating expenses per new
connections. The targets for self-financing ratios related net internal cash generation (revenues
less cash operating expenses and debt service adjusted for changes in non-cash working capital)
to a three-year moving average of investment expenditures. To improve the structure of tariffs,
the PA specified a deadline (January 31, 1991) for implementing a study rationalizing tariffs--that
is, revising or replacing the existing tariff system based on "pajas" (para. 2.04). It was expected
that a new tariff system would, inter alia, encourage water conservation.
3.04        At appraisal, the implementation period for Part A of the Project was expected to
extend from July 1987 to June 1994; implementation of Parts B and C, from January 1988 to June
1994; and acquisition of spare parts (Part D), from September-December 1988 to September-
December 1989. The expected project completion date was December 31, 1995.
3.05        Changes in Project Description caused by Congressional Actions. The above
project description does not reflect changes that were introduced by Congress in June 1988,
almost two years after loan approval (para. 5.02). The Guatemalan Congress had introduced the



- 4 -
following changes: (i) eliminated the sector organization study (formerly Part E--para. 3.02); and
(ii) reallocated loan proceeds, lowering the allocation for TA and spare parts and increasing the
allocation for operational improvements and expansion. Because the Bank had already carried out
by 1988 a Sector Organization study, and because financing for chemicals had been secured from
other sources, the Bank accepted the project's redefinition and the reallocation of funds.
EMPAGUA agreed by a side letter to provide a satisfactory financing plan in the event that the
Bank financing assistance should fail to cover the cost of all subcomponents contemplated within
the TA. The Bank and the Government renegotiated the loan documents to reflect these changes,
and those changes with respect to the dated covenants.
3.06          In order to make allowance for the delay in loan-signing, the Government requested
changes to various dated covenants, such as postponing the deadline for introducing the new tariff
system (para. 3.03) and shifting for one-year the grace period and the project completion date,
i.e., changing the initial date for starting the repayment of loan principal from May 15, 1992 to
May 15, 1993 and moving the date of project completion from June 30, 1995 to June 30, 1996.
The Bank agreed to the changes of the dated covenants but did not agree to reschedule the grace
period and the project completion date. Agreeing to change the dates of the grace period and the
amortization schedule after loan approval would have violated fundamental Bank policy.'.
3.07          Borrower and Executing Agency. The Loan Agreement provided for a loan of
US$23.0 million to the Republic of Guatemala (the Borrower). The Republic, in turn, would
relend the proceeds of the loan to the Municipality of Guatemala City (the Executing Agency)
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, including those stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. On its turn, the Municipality would execute the project through EMPAGUA.
4.            Project Design and Organization
4.01          General. Because the studies constituting Part A of the Project (para. 3.02) were
expected to promote efficient operations at EMPAGUA, the Bank invested considerable time and
effort in assisting EMPAGUA to draft appropriate terms of reference (TOR) for these studies.
4.02         The draft TOR contemplated the execution of Part A of the Project by different
consultants, operating under separate contracts. It was expected that a management consultant,
allied to a "twin" water company, would have overall responsibility for carrying out the MO
study. But other consultants, perhaps separately contracted, and operating under the supervision
of the management consultant, might provide services for other studies. A second main consultant
was expected to carry out the distribution system expansion study. A third main consultant was
expected to carry out the water resources survey. The execution of the system expansion and
water resources studies did not depend on work to be completed under the MO study.
' World Bank: Operational Directive 3.10, p. 3, paras. 8-12, sets forth the rules governing grace periods and
amortization rates. While permitting flexibility in adjusting grace periods and final maturities at the time of loan approval,
the rules do not set forth any criteria for subsequent adjustments. The grace periods of three unsigned loans to a country
other than Guatemala were changed after approval in 1986 due to exceptional project and country circumstances. The
Bank insisted that no precedent had been set by this one exception.



- 5 -
4.03        The draft TOR also contemplated a semi-sequential execution of the studies. The
MO study would be started with a general diagnosis of EMPAGUA (phase 1), the
recommendations of which were to be implemented following annual action plans (AP--phase 2).
The distribution expansion and water assessment studies would not begin until after phase 1 of the
MO studies had been completed.
4.04        The draft TOR clearly reflected the Bank's expectation with respect to the MO
studies, whereby the consultant would place primary emphasis on the utilization of computers for
the commercial systems (accounting, budgeting, and inventory control); cadastral survey; finances
and tariffs; and plant efficiency (paras. 2.03-2.05). From the Bank's point of view, the
assessment of the water resources and planning for system distribution expansion did not
command as high a priority as addressing the MO needs of EMPAGUA.
4.05        Project Preparation. The Government initially expressed its interest in obtaining
Bank financing for this project during negotiations (January 1985) for supplementary financing
to complete the Chixoy hydroelectric plant--a project of the national power company. Disturbed
by the inefficiency, deficits, and unpaid electricity bills of EMPAGUA (para. 2.04), the
Government felt that EMPAGUA would benefit from a proposed project of TA and rehabilitation.
Project preparation was executed promptly between February 1985 and February 1986. Loan
negotiations were completed by July 1986; and the Board of the Bank approved the loan on
October 14, 1986 (Part 111, Table 1).
4.06        The proposed project represented the Bank's first effort in the Guatemalan WS
sector. With respect to its origin, this project clearly reflected initiative on the part of the
executive branch of the Government. With respect to its content, the project reflected agreement
and acceptance by all parties as to its components.
4.07        By the time loan negotiations were completed (July 1986), it seemed that roles and
responsibilities of the consultants, as well as of EMPAGUA, and national and municipal
governments, were clearly understood. The consultants were expected to recommend and to help
implement improvements at EMPAGUA. EMPAGUA was expected to accept and implement the
recommendations of the consultants. The Government and the Municipality of Guatemala City,
as Borrower and Executing Agency, respectively, were expected to provide an environment
congenial to the reforms--that is, management support and upward revised tariffs.
5.          Implementation
5.01        Overview. The delays in declaring loan effectiveness, coupled with the subsequent
suspension of disbursements (except for TA), and the option of obtaining project financing from
other sources, were the cause for major variances between planned and actual project
implementation dates, as well as for changes in the project components to be carried out, and for
differences in project costs (paras. 5.02-5.09). There were also variances with respect to the
procedures for contracting consultants, and as to their activities (paras. 5.10-5.15).



- 6 -
5.02        August 1989 was the actual initial project implementation date, since project start-
up coincided with the declaration of effectiveness of the consultancy contract for Part A of the
Project (paras. 5.06 and 5.11). The main delays in Project start-up were caused by the late loan
signing, which did not take place until August 26, 1988 (22 months after loan approval) and in
declaring loan effectiveness, which did not take place until April 14, 1989 (almost eight months
after loan signing). These delays were caused mainly by the complex system of checks and
balances between the Executive and Legislative branches of the Guatemala Government, which
were necessary as a condition to ratify and sign the loan agreement, and required an affirmative
vote three times.
5.03        Project Ownership. The delays in loan signing had their origins in a lengthy
ratification process in the Guatemalan Congress, which led to a renegotiation of, inter alia, the
project description and certain dated covenants (paras. 3.05 and 3.06). The delays in declaring
effectiveness reflected very slow action on the part of the Municipal Government in considering
the Action Plan (AP) to implement the Project, in obtaining approval on the relending agreement
with the Government, the legal opinions on the loan, and in negotiating a payment plan for
settling accounts with the national power company (para. 3.03). It appears that underlying these
delays was a decreasing sense of project ownership, which was the result of political difficulties
compounded by deteriorating macroeconomic circumstances, and therefore neither the
Government or the Municipal Government were inclined to husband their "political capital" for
new projects, unless these involved higher priority issues; hence, they moved cautiously in
seeking loan and project approval with Congress and the Municipal Council2.
5.04        Contracting & Procurement. EMPAGUA signed the consultancy contract
(US$2.56 million) on April 13, 1989 (paras. 5.02 and 5. 1I). Later in 1989, EMPAGUA awarded
bids for the purchase of 40,000 house water meters (US$0.726 million) and for seven vehicles
(US$0.158 million), with delivery scheduled for 1990. Contracting of consultants and
procurement of goods was carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
5.05        Suspension of Disbursements. Because of the arrears to external creditors,
including the Bank and the IMF, on March 20, 1990, the Bank suspended disbursements on all
loans to Guatemala (para. 2.05). However, as provided by the Bank's operating policies,3
disbursements continued for Loan 2759-GU to cover consultancy costs for a period of six months.
Furthermore, in response to an urgent request, made on September 7, 1990, by the mayor of
Guatemala City, the Bank agreed to continue disbursements until completion of the TA
component.
5.06        Project Completion Date. Because what is stated in para. 5.07 below, the actual
project completion date was April 1992, when EMPAGUA, with Bank agreement, terminated the
2 Bank had a similar experience in ratifying a second loan agreement 2724-GU.
3Idem., Operational Directive 13.40, paragraph 5 (b)



- 7 -
work of the consultants. Therefore, the
actual implementation period for Part A of the Project was 22 months.
5.07        Loan Cancellation. In January 1992, EMPAGUA informed a Bank mission of its
concern regarding the following issues: (i) the near-term expiration of the grace period for Loan
2759-GU, and thereby the prospect of making loan repayments in excess of disbursements (i.e.,
negative cash-flow); and (ii) having initiated negotiations with a bi-lateral lender for a loan of
US$38 million to expand water production capacity. In December 1992, the Government
requested cancellation of the undisbursed loan balance, given the financially unattractive terms
of Loan 2759-GU, the option of obtaining a loan substitute, and the very low level of
disbursements on the Bank's loan. The Bank agreed to this request in January 1993.
5.08        Components Carried Out. The consultants completed about 73 % of Part A of the
project (Part III, Table 5). Under Parts B and D, EMPAGUA made some modest purchases
(water meters, vehicles, computer equipment, and spare parts). Part C was not executed. Given
the incomplete execution of the project, the actually completed and the proposed projects are not
comparable.
5.09        Project Costs. Expenditures on the project amounted to US$4.84 million, including
interest during construction (US$0.79 million), as compared with the appraisal estimate of
US$30.00 million. Actual expenditures for Part A of the Project amounted to US$2.27 million
as compared with the appraisal forecast of US$6.40 million; for Part B, expenditures were
US$1.30 million vs. the appraisal forecast of US$9.00 million; for Part C, there were no
expenditures vs. the appraisal forecast of US$8.90 million; and for Part D, the expenditures were
only US$0.48 million vs. US$3. 10 million, the forecast at appraisal. Clearly, given the
incomplete execution of the project, the actual and expected costs are not comparable. Bank
financing, which covered the foreign cost of the project, amounted to US$3.61 million;
EMPAGUA and the Government provided the financing balance of US$1.23 million. For the sake
of completion, Part III, Tables 2, 3 and 4 compare, respectively, actual and forecasted: project
costs, annual disbursements, and disbursements by category.
5.10        Consultant Selection and Contracting. EMPAGUA negotiated (January 1989)
a contract with a consulting consortium of four firms, based on a proposal covering all of Part A
of the Project. The Bank had closely monitored the preparation of TOR and the selection process,
and therefore, did not object to the contract, even though such contract was not exactly what the
Bank had expected at appraisal.
5.11         The lead firm specializing in assessing water resources, furnished the resident
project director, and another of the firms, which was a water utility specialist, was in charge of
carrying out the studies on management and operations. The other two consulting firms were
expected to carry out, respectively, training and another set of studies. All these firms, together
with the Guatemalan water company, had constituted one of the consortium that was included on
the short list, but in the commercial maneuvering connected with the preparation of proposals,
they joined with the firm specializing in resource assessment to present a single proposal covering



-8 -
all of Part A of the Project.
5.12         Diagnostic Report. In February 1990, the consultants completed the diagnostic
report on MO problems. The main items requiring improvement were: (i) the legal status and
organization of EMPAGUA; (ii) the budgetary, accounting, commercial, and inventory-control
systems; (iii) the cadastral registry; (iv) management and maintenance of plant operations; and
(v) adequate tariffs. The report recommended the implementation of the following action plan:
(i) examination of autonomy and organization; (ii) computerization of systems for commercial
operations, budgeting, accounting, and inventory control; (iii) the testing of new cadastral
techniques; and (iv) the execution of studies to improve plant efficiency. The consultants also
recommended the execution of: (i) a survey of the distribution system to detect leaks and
recommended pipe replacement; (ii) studies for expanding the available water resources and the
distribution system; and (iii) studies of the piezometry and metering needs of EMPAGUA.
5.13         The Consultants Proposed Action Plan (AP). To the surprise of the Bank, the
proposed AP recommended by the consultants placed primary emphasis on assessing water
resources and expanding the distribution system, and accorded secondary emphasis on solving MO
problems--a reversal of priorities, not consistent with the findings of the Bank's earlier diagnostic
report, whose conclusion was that the lack of commercial orientation and associated management
systems was a more important factor responsible for the high rate of unaccounted-for distributed
water, than the deteriorated conditions of the plant and inappropriate operating practices. Clearly,
there had been some major changes with respect to EMPAGUA's assessment of priorities. The
Bank recommended revising the AP: (i) to obtain an appropriate solution to the MO problems and
to organize related studies toward achieving a consistent set of goals, such as increasing income,
reducing costs, optimizing/rationalizing plant operations, and focusing on improving the quality
of service in an integrated fashion (para. 2.03); (ii) to take into account constraints at
EMPAGUA; and (iii) to reflect a realistic implementation schedule.
5.14        First Revised AP (October 1990-October 1991). As approved by the Bank, the
revised AP provided for: (i) a definition of alternatives for hardware and software for the
computer system; (ii) a pilot test of cadastral techniques; and (iii) continuing the assessment of
water resources. Reduced emphasis was placed on macrometering and efficient plant
improvements through lower operating costs. Work was temporarily suspended on the issues
related with autonomy, organization, and personnel function. The consultants proposed deferring
work on expansion of the distribution system. Since the survey for pipe repairs and replacement
had already been completed with French assistance, the Bank recommended that the consultants
proceed to prepare designs and bidding documents. The Bank also reminded EMPAGUA that it
was not only necessary to revise or replace its system for granting water rights based on the
"pajas" system, but that the structure of tariffs was a covenanted obligation under the PA.
5.15         Second Revised AP (October 1991-April 1992). The second revised AP took the
form of two changes of orders. The first change of orders extended the deadlines for completing
the tasks as outlined in the first AP. The second changes of orders provided for the liquidation



of the consultants' operations (paras. 5.06-5.07).
6.          Fmancial Performance of EMPAGUA
6.01        General. Because of project delays in implementation (paras. 5.02-5.06), lower-
than-expected new connections, tariff and revenue shortfalls, and misjudgments about personnel
expenses, the financial performance of EMPAGUA during the period 1988-1991--the years
covering all but four months of project execution--fell short of appraisal expectations. As a result,
EMPAGUA did not meet the most important target financial ratio that measures financial self-
sufficiency (para. 3.03). As shown later, actual revenues for this period were only sufficient to
cover actual aggregate cash operating expenses plus a small part of debt service. Other financing
requirements, such as the balance of debt service, working capital, and an increasing proportion
of investment expenditures--went unmet from internal resources.
6.02        Tariffs Forecast. At appraisal, revenues were expected to grow through: (i) water
tariff increases; (ii) the extension of sewerage tariffs to all residential users of this service; and
(iii) new service connections. Controlling the growth of operating expenses was expected to result
from cost-containment measures and improved operational efficiency. Water tariffs, after a rise
of 77% in 1986, were expected to be increased annually in line with inflation. The extension of
sewerage charges was expected to be implemented by January 1, 1988 (at appraisal, the sewerage
charge extended to only 15% of those who used the service). Sewerage tariffs were expected to
be raised to 30% of the water tariff in 1988, 40% in 1989, and 50% in 1990. Connection fees
were expected to increase in line with new connections. Improvements in collections were also
expected. At appraisal, it was expected that the rationalized tariff structure would be implemented
by January 31, 1989, but this deadline was changed to January 31, 1991, when the loan
documents were renegotiated (para. 3.06). The financial projections reflected reasonable
assumptions on future events and Government policy; but events and policy did not always
materialize as expected.
6.03        Actual Tariffs. As the responsible authority, the City Council approved nominal
water tariff increases of 76% and 100% in 1986 and 1990, respectively; but did not, as had been
estimated at appraisal, extend the sewerage charge to all residential customers who used this
service. The Bank repeatedly urged the extension of sewerage charges. Failure to extend sewerage
charges constituted a major departure from the assumptions underlying the financial projections.
In September 1992, EMPAGUA replaced the tariff structure based on the "pajas" system for one
based on actual water consumption measured in cubic meters.
6.04        Revenues for the Period 1988-1991. As shown in Schedule 6.1 below, actual total
revenues (Q143.1 million) were almost 20% below the forecast level (Q178.6 million) (see Pan
III, Table 6for annual data). Notwithstanding lower-than-expected new connections (10,086 vs.
27,100), the level (Ql 17.1 million) of actual aggregate water revenues for the 1988-1991 period
was only 8.7% below the forecast level (Q128.2 million); but the shortfall of sewerage revenues
(-Q38.3 million) was more than enough to offset the surplus revenues from connection fees and



- 10 -
other fees (Q13.9 million). If the revenue forecast for sewerage service had materialized as
expected, aggregate total revenues for the 1988-1991 period would have amounted to Q181.4
million or 1.5 % above the forecast level. On the assumption that no changes had occurred with
respect to actual cash operating expenses, net income before depreciation would have amounted
to Q54.5 million or 2.4% above the forecast level.
SchedtLe 6.1
Actual and Forecast Aggregate Revenues and Cash Operating Expenses, 1988-1991
(Q miLLions)
% Diff. from
Actual          Forecast            Forecast
Revenues             143.1             178.6             -19.9
Water               117.1            128.2              -8.7
Sewerage              2.8             41.1             -93.1
Conn.                23.2              9.3             135.4
Cash Exp.            126.9             125.5               1.1
Personnel            61.4             41.4              48.4
Chemicals             9.2             21.3             -56.9
Energy               31.2             32.0              -2.6
Other                25.1             30.8             -18.5
Op. Inc. (cash)        16.2             53.2             -69.4
6.05           Expenses for the Period 1988-1991. Actual and forecast aggregate cash operating
expenses for the period 1988-1991 were very close (Q126.9 million vs. Q125.5 million), because
the increases (Q20.0 million) on personnel costs were offset by lower expenditures (Q18.6
million) on chemicals, electricity, and materials. The higher personnel expenses had their origin
in the transfer (1987) of a larger-than-expected number of sewer workers who had been municipal
employees. Lower-than-expected chemical expenses may reflect purchases made with a
preferential exchange rate. Actual aggregate net income before depreciation (Q16.2 million) for
the 1988-1991 period was well below (-69.4%) the level expected at appraisal (Q53.2 million).
6.06           Investments and Sources of Funding. The late start of the project, the suspension
of disbursements from Loan 2759-GU, lower than expected tariffs, revenue shortfalls, and
negative internal cash generation underlay the lower than expected (Q85.1 million or -69.5%)
investment expenditures, as shown in Table 6.2. The reductions in investment expenditures were
matched by corresponding lesser amounts in long-term borrowing (Q57.4 or -70.1%), lower
Government contributions (Q9.0 million or -34.5%), and net reduction in other sources (Q18.7
million or -331.9%). Gross internal cash generation (Q29.9 million) was 59.8% below expected
levels (Q74.4 %) and the shortfall of net internal cash generation amounted to Q28.2 million or -
162.1 %. Because net internal cash generation did not meet expected levels, EMPAGUA
increasingly relied on involuntary forced financing, i.e., late payments to the power company,
and delinquency with respect to debt-service payments to other development institutions.



- I1 -
Schedule 6.2
Actual and Forecast Aggregate Sources and Applications of Funds. 1988-1991
(Q millions)
X Diff. from
Actual          Forecast            Forecast
Sources                             30.7          125.3            -75.4
Gross Internal Cash Generation      29.9           74.4            -59.8
Inc. before Depreciation           16.2           53.2            -69.4
Non-operating income                13.7          21.2             -35.6
Less: Debt Service                  40.7           57.0             -28.6
Net Internat Cash Gen.           -10.8           17.4            -162.1
Borrowings                        24.4           81.8             -70.1
Gov. Contributions                17.1           26.1             -34.5
Aoptications                        30.7          125.3             -75.4
Investments                       37.2          122.3            -69.5
Working Capital                   36.2            4.6             681.9
Other                            -42.7           -1.6            2521.5
Financial Ratios
Debt service coverage (X)            0.7            1.3             -46.2
Self-financing                     Neg.            14.2              NA
(net int. cash gen./
invest. expenditures)
6.07            Financial Targets. Primarily because of lower-than-expected levels of new
connections, lower than expected tariffs and revenues and increased personnel costs during the
period 1988-1991, EMPAGUA failed to meet the covenanted annual target ratios for cash
operating expenses as a percent of operating revenues (Part III, Table 7). The same factors were
also largely responsible for EMPAGUA's not meeting the annual ratio tests for self-financing.
However, there were some improvements with respect to collections, even though such
improvements were less than expected--that is, accounts receivable declined from the equivalent
of 7.0 months of sales in 1988 to 5.3 months of sales in 1991 (vs. the target level of 4 months of
sales). For these reason, EMPAGUA met the current ratio test of 1.2 (current assets/current
liabilities) in the years 1987-1989, but did not meet the test thereafter.
6.08            Self-financing Covenant. Concerning the self-financing ratio (para. 6.01), Bank
staff commented in 1988 that calculation of the ratio as covenanted might seriously misrepresent
the financial situation of EMPAGUA. For example, an increase in the current portion of long-
term debt due to devaluation resulted in a decrease of working capital and an improvement of the
self-financing ratio. Clearly, this improvement did not reflect the actual financial performance of
EMPAGUA. Bank staff recommended calculation of the self-financing ratio without adjusting net
internal cash generation for changes in non-cash working capital.
7.              Project Results
7.01            General. Project accomplishments fell well short of expectations. Nevertheless,
there were some improvements with respect to management systems; and certain technical



- 12 -
indicators showed improvement, even though EMPAGUA did not meet all target levels, and
EMPAGUA did not improve its financial performance as expected (paras. 6.01-6.08). Agreement
on a plan for settling outstanding debts owed by EMPAGUA to the national power company was
an important achievement (para. 3.03).
7.02        Results on Part A of the Project. In line with project objectives of modernizing
EMPAGUA's management systems, accomplishments under Part A of the Project were positive,
but incomplete. Since EMPAGUA's commercial operations, budgetary and accounting systems,
and inventory control have been computerized, future benefits can be expected in the form of
improved efficiency, reduced costs and improved cash flow. The same can be expected from
implementation of the study on operations and maintenance. The new tariff system is expected
to encourage conservation and more rational use of water on the part of consumers plus providing
enhanced revenues. These are important achievements. Also, under Part A of the Project the study
of water resources was completed, laying the basis for drilling in the future new water wells.
When work on Part A stopped, certain studies had been deferred by agreement with the Bank,
such as those on autonomy and distribution expansion. Others had not been fully completed, such
as: organization, personnel, efficiency of operations at water treatment plants, water consumption
macrometering, house metering, and preparation of the bidding documents for pipeline repairs
and replacement. When completed, and if their recommendations are implemented, the studies
on plant efficiency, metering, and leak repairs can also be expected to generate important benefits.
7.03        Results on Parts B, C, and D of the Project. Given the suspension of
disbursements (para. 5.06) and the limitation of Bank financing to Part A of the Project,
achievements and results under Parts B, C, and D fell well short of the respective objectives of
repairing and reinforcing the distribution system, expanding water supply, and purchasing
imported spare parts. In 1989, in connection with Part B (operational improvements), EMPAGUA
contracted to buy seven (7) vehicles and forty thousand (40,000) house meters with Bank funding;
for an amount of US$0.87 million. These purchases represented only a fraction of what had been
contemplated at appraisal. Between 1988 and 1991, EMPAGUA reported having drilled seven
new wells, but none of this work was done under Part C (supply expansion). Under Part D,
EMPAGUA spent US$0.48 million of its own funds for spare parts. No Bank monies were ever
disbursed on Parts C and D. In other words, non-Bank financing accounted for expansion of the
distribution system (about 10,000 new customers) and the drilling of seven water-supply wells.
7.04        Efficiency Targets. Concerning covenanted efficiency targets, except for the
percentage of connections with working meters, actual results showed either compliance or
significant improvement, even if the target levels were not met. For example, the actual ratio of
employees per 1000 customers declined from 17 in 1988 to 13 in 1991, as compared with the
corresponding target levels of 13 and 11. Variance from forecast levels was caused by a shortfall
of connections and the transfer of a large number of sewer workers from the Municipality to
EMPAGUA. However, by 1991, staff levels numbered around 1,740, which was below the target
level (1,904); but the number of connections (131,750) was well below the target level (160,000).
Actual operating costs per connection (stated in 1986 prices) declined from Q167 in 1987 to Q108
in 1991; the target levels were Q155 in 1987 and Q150 in 1991. In 1987 the actual percentage of



- 13 -
connections with working meters was 71 % vs. the target level of 65 %; in 1991, the corresponding
numbers were 67% and 81 %. This deterioration probably reflected reductions in the metering
program due to financial stringency (Part III, Table 7).
7.05        Sustainability. Further achievements are still possible provided that: the
commitment of EMPAGUA's management to continue to improve operations and its finances is
maintained in the future and; municipal support is provided for further operational improvements
and financial self-sufficiency. In other words, if EMPAGUA's management continues to work at
implementing operational improvements, and if the City Council establishes appropriate tariff
levels and encourages full implementation of the improvements recommended under the project,
further operational efficiencies and improved financial performance can be expected. If
EMPAGUA's management relaxes its effort and the regulatory environment is not congenial, the
full benefit of the new systems will not be achieved and may even be eroded.
7.06        Internal Rate of Return. Given the large shortfall in investment expenditures on
Parts B and C of the Project (paras. 5.02 and 5.03), which at appraisal were expected to account
for the main quantifiable benefits derived from the project, it is not possible to calculate a rate of
return for the project.
8.          Performance
8.01        Government: Project Ownership. The combined delays to sign the loan and to
declare loan effectiveness (29 months) had the negative effect of reducing the grace period of
Loan 2759-GU, thereby contributing to the loan becoming less financially attractive to the
Government and the Municipality. Clearly, the Administration and the Municipal Government
demonstrated a declining sense of project ownership, and they were unwilling to spend "political
capital" to expedite the loan approval process. Another example of the declining sense of project
ownership was the Municipal Government's lack-luster performance with respect to increasing
tariffs and revenues of EMPAGUA. By not authorizing adequate revenue measures for
EMPAGUA, the Municipality did not allow EMPAGUA to comply with the financial self-
sufficiency covenant of the Action Plan (Part III, Table 8). The Government's unwillingness to
furnishing financial resources to complete the project, as covenanted, is understandable, given the
economic and financial difficulties associated with the suspension of disbursements by the Bank,
which does not constitute necessarily an example of a declining sense of project ownership.
8.02        EMPAGUA's Improvements. Under the project, EMPAGUA achieved important
benefits from the implementation of computerized management systems and commercial practices
(para. 5.08), which translated into benefits in the form of increased efficiency, reduced costs, and
improved cash flow. As already stated (para. 7.02), when completed and if their
recommendations are properly implemented, the studies of metering, plant efficiency, and pipeline
repairs and maintenance would also generate large benefits. Between 1988 and 1991, EMPAGUA
improved its situation with respect to most covenanted technical performance indicators, even
though it did not always meet the target levels (Part III, Table 7).



- 14 -
8.04        Tariffs and Finances. Although tariffs were somewhat rationalized (para. 6.03),
the financial performance of EMPAGUA was still below what was expected at appraisal (paras.
6.04-6.07). Fundamentally, the responsibility for this situation lay with the Municipal
Government, which established an inadequate level and structure of tariffs.
8.05        Management. Just after initial project implementation (para. 5.05), Bank staff
noted a deterioration with respect to EMPAGUA's management in administration and finances.
This problem was noted again in 1990. EMPAGUA's Board of Directors named an "Interventor"
to address the financial and accounting problems of the utility and to act as Coordinator of the
Action Plan to improve EMPAGUA's management. Unfortunately, Bank reports for 1992 do not
include any comments on EMPAGUA's management performance.
8.06        Accounting. There was a long-standing accounting problem due to poorly
maintained and incomplete records with respect to plant and equipment operating efficiency,
work-in-progress, plant and equipment inventories, and overdue accounts receivable. Using its
own resources, EMPAGUA hired auditors to implement new procedures to rectify these
problems. Some progress was made in untangling records, but not enough for the auditors to issue
unqualified opinions as to EMPAGUA's financial statements during project preparation and
execution (1985-1992).
8.07        Project Unit. According to Bank staff, the initial response of the Project
Implementation Unit during 1988 and 1989 was very slow. Besides being initially under-staffed,
the Unit was improperly organized to coordinate the activities of the consultants and the various
units of EMPAGUA. It acquiesced to what appears to have been an excessively long mobilization
period (five months) on the part of the consultants, and did not focus the first Action Plan (AP)
on remedying management problems, as advised by the Bank. Bank reports for 1992 do not
include any comments on the performance of the Project Unit.
8.08        Consultants. EMPAGUA expressed satisfaction with the work of the consultants.
Bank staff expressed no complaints about the various improvements recommended and
implemented by the consultants, but was not satisfied with the initial Project Director, a water
resources specialist, who did not, as advised by the Bank, orient the initial Action Plan toward
solving the MO problems of EMPAGUA (para. 5.13). The Bank supported EMPAGUA's
decision to replace this individual.
8.09        The Bank: Preparation and Appraisal. It only took twelve month to prepare and
appraise the project, and the Bank provided its help in a timely and efficient manner. With respect
to the design of the project, the Bank did not take into account the delays in obtaining opportune
loan approval and declaration of effectiveness, which had been experienced in connection with
other Bank loans to Guatemala (para. 5.02). In the opinion of Bank staff, the MO study appears
to have been too ambitious, since embraced more objectives than the limited executive capacity
of EMPAGUA could reach. Bank staff felt that it would have been more appropriate for the
project to have focused on improving the quality of service (para. 2.03) and the finances of
EMPAGUA, leaving the issues of autonomy and organization for a second operation.



- 15 -
8.10        Supervision. Staff supplied good advice to EMPAGUA about the operations of the
consultants during the course of timely field supervision (Part III, Table 9). However, in
hindsight, Bank staff felt that it was a mistake to award to just one consultancy consortium all the
studies carried under Part A of the Project. The experience and disciplines required for the MO
studies, system expansion, and water resources identification and management were too different
to be accommodated under one contract with one single consultancy consortium.
8.11        Waiving Compliance. The suspension of disbursements did not release the
Government and the Municipality from the obligation to comply with the covenants of their
respective agreements with the Bank. The Municipality did not comply with the financial
covenants as established in the Action Plan (PA) designed to promote EMPAGUA's financial self
sufficiency. Bank staff informally waived these covenants, but Bank staff should have only waived
them formally.
8.12        Bank Policy on Grace Periods. In 1987 and 1988, in their communications with
the Government and EMPAGUA, Bank staff noted the ratification delays, urged action, but did
not explicitly advise them in writing that Bank policy did not permit extending the grace period.
By August 1987, a year after loan approval, Bank staff should have begun advising the
Government and EMPAGUA (in writing) as to the Bank policy on this matter and how the
ratification delays were impacting on the grace period.
8.13        Loan Signing Delay. Given the long delays in loan-signing and declaration of
effectiveness (29 months), and the reduced grace period, whether the Bank should have withdrawn
the loan or not depends on the relative values which one places on continuing the country
dialogue, on obtaining the expected benefits of the project, and on maintaining the credibility of
the Bank. By signing the loan agreement, the Bank maintained the dialogue and kept open the
option of helping to improve EMPAGUA. In the opinion of Bank staff, improvements would not
have occurred without Bank support; and withdrawal of the loan would not have improved the
policy dialogue.
9.          Lessons to be Learned
9.01        Selection of TA Objectives. The first lesson to be learned is that TA objectives
have to be selected very carefully, based on a detailed examination of the technical, institutional
(MO), and financial needs of the beneficiary, and a realistic assessment of what improvements
the beneficiary can incorporate within a given time frame. The MO study sought to accomplish
too many objectives at the same time (para. 8.07). Given that EMPAGUA was a weak institution
and a first-time Bank "customer", a selective approach as to which objectives, to be implemented
on a project-by-project basis, would have been more appropriate. EMPAGUA would have been
better served if the project had focused on improving the quality of service and its finances,
leaving for a later time the development of measures to improve autonomy and organization.
9.02        Contracting Consultants. The next lesson relates to the contracting of consultants.
Engineering/technical studies should not be linked under the same contract to institutional studies,



- 16 -
as the respective experiences and disciplines are very different. Clearly, it was a mistake for one
contract to cover studies related to water resources, distribution expansion, and a universe of MO
problems. If more than one firm and one contract are involved in the execution of institutional
studies, there should be a lead firm with overall responsibility for coordinating the coherence and
quality of the work of the other firms. Finally, contracts for institutional studies should only be
awarded to consulting firms with qualified operational experience, and the consultants personnel
assigned to the study should train their counterparts as part of their work.
9.03         Project Ownership. At appraisal, while Bank staff were aware that the proposed
project ran the risk of political opposition, they relied on the commitment of the National and
Municipal Governments to overcome such opposition. Clearly, this did not happen quickly.
Another lesson learned is that during project preparation the Bank should assess the sense of
project ownership on the part of the Borrower and Executing Agency, including a survey of the
local loan-approval process, the needs for speedy loan approval, and the measures required to
assure minimum delays following Bank approval. If such survey and assessment indicate a high
probability of major loan-approval delays, the Bank should consider deferral of the project until
there is sufficient support to assure speedy loan approval.
9.04         Grace Period. Another lesson is that after loan approval, if long loan signing or
effectiveness delays appear likely to materialize, Bank staff should advise the Borrower (in
writing) as to the Bank's policy, which does not allow changing the grace period after loan
approval, and should also provide an explanation on how such delays impact on the grace period
and the financing of the project. This advice might help the Borrower and the Executing Agency
to understand more fully the cost of any delays (para. 8.11).



- 17 -
Annex 1
Detailed Project Description for Parts A to D
1.          Part A: The management/operational studies were expected to lead to the
introduction of new systems and procedures in the following areas: (a) organization and
management, including a redefinition of on-going organizational functions, corporate planning,
internal communications and management controls; (b) operational and maintenance systems at
pumping stations, treatment plants, deep water producing wells, etc.; (c) operational efficiency
and maintenance of the pipeline networks; (d) repair and maintenance of house meters; (e) tariff
structure, corporate finances, and accounting; (f) personnel management; (g) commercial
practices; and (h) customer relations.
2.          The system studies at the feasibility and design level were related to expanding the
distribution system of the Distrito Central. Studies in this category also were expected to provide
information for the transfer to EMPAGUA of systems operated by other entities.
3.          The water resource studies were designed to provide an assessment of the
requirement of the metropolitan area of Guatemala City, including the groundwater supply
potential and recharge system at the valley of Guatemala and at the Xaya-Pixcaya area, and to
provide simultaneous preparation of other priority studies and required designs for increasing
water production.
4.          In addition to the above studies, Part A of the Project also included the
development and implementation of: (i) guidelines for periodic inventory and revaluation of
assets; and (ii) a staff training program. The expected cost of Part A of the Project was US$6.4
million.
5.          Part B: Under Part B of the Project, EMPAGUA would implement the following
activities: (i) rehabilitate 35 deep water production wells; (ii) carry out quality improvements at
pumping stations; (iii) acquire 35 vehicles for operational, maintenance, and metering activities;
(iv) install about 140 km. of small pipelines and replace about 10,000 house connections; (v)
acquire and install about 40,000 domestic water meters, 30 master meters, and the neccesary
meter spare parts; and (vi) acquire a variety of equipment for flow and pressure measurements,
leak detection, radio-communications, meter repair shop, computer services, etc. The expected
cost of Part B of the Project was US$9.0 million.
6.          Part C: Under Part C of the Project, EMPAGUA would construct additional water
production capacity in the Intervenor area; with incremental production of 0.6 cubic meters of
water per second. The expected cost of Part C of the Project was US$8.9 million.
7.          Part D: Under the Part C of the Project, EMPAGUA would acquire and utilize all
unneeded spare parts. The expected cost of Part D of the Project was US$3. 1 million.






- 18 -
PART HI. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE EXECUTING AGENCY'S (EMPAGUA)1
With respect to the letter sent by the World Bank dated February 25, 1994,
attaching the draft Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
for Guatemala City partly financed by the IBRD under Loan 2759-GU, we would like to make
the following comments on the PCR:
I.          The Guatemala City Municipal Water Corporation agrees that there was
considerable delay between loan approval by the Bank (October 14, 1986) and the
effectiveness of the loan (April 14, 1989). All this time was used in the internal
processing of the project which included the review of the draft Loan Agreement,
obtaining the opinion of several Governmental agencies, its transmittal to the National
Congress and its approval through a Decree of Congress, up to the execution of the Loan
and the Project Agreements (August 26, 1988) and consequent compliance with prior
Loan conditions.
The project was initiated on August 22, 1989, when the work of the Consultants
Consortium began. Seven months after project initiation, the Bank sent a fax in which
it informed that all IBRD loan disbursements to Guatemala were being suspended. This
decision was taken as a result of the failure of the Central Government to pay its
financial obligations, and also applied to Loan 2759-GU, with the exception of the
amount allocated to the technical assistance component.
1.1   Components: Notwithstanding the fact that the technical assistance component
had the required financing, according to the Bank's report only 73% of the
component was executed due to organizational problems which prevented
coverage of certain areas (corporate autonomy, information relations and
personnel); operational problems (maintenance practices, treatment plants
operation, leak controls); and measurement. The implementation period for Part
A which was scheduled to be developed from July 1987 through June 1994, was
reduced from August 22, 1989 to April 22, 1992.
It is true that the achievements obtained to date under the project, are
substantially below the expectations of the Appraisal report and that with the
exception of the purchase of 40,000 meters and a reduced number of working
vehicles (7), nothing more was accomplished in the rest of the components due,
This section is a translation from the Spanish of EMPAGUA's comments on the report.



- 19 -
in part, to the above-mentioned suspension of disbursements which remained in
force for approximately two years (1990-1992).
1.2   Cost. Project costs amounted to US$4.84 million, including interests and local
counterpart funds. The proceeds of the Loan used were US$3.61 million and
local funds accounted for US$1.23 million, equivalent.
1.3   Consultants: The experience of the Corporation with the contracting of the
Consultant Consortium constituted by one American Company, two Brazilian
companies and the Israeli company which assumed the direction, was
unsatisfactory. Notwithstanding that the selection was not objected by the Bank,
not all of the participating firms showed their capability to carry out the studies
required of them, thus originating certain problems in the works and causing
disagreements that concluded with the substitution of the Consortium Director and
the separation of one of the participating firms (E.T. Archer of the United
States). It seems that this was also the first time the Bank had experimented with
the use of such modality.
The Consultants failed to observe the Bank's recommendations in the preparation
of the draft Plan of Action which placed the emphasis on water resources and
expansion of water distribution and, secondly, to the solution of the administrative
and operational problems. The Bank recommended the revision of the Plan of
Action which was modified to the satisfaction of the Bank under EMPAGUA
instructions.
II.         RESULTS
The results achieved with the Project were poor as only 73 % of the administrative
component was performed by the consultants (Part A) and the purchase of 40,000 meters
and seven working vehicles corresponding to Part B of the Project, as well as the
purchase of spare parts in Part D, with its own resources.
EMPAGUA still has approximately 83 documents that include the studies and
recommendations of the consultants, awaiting administrative decisions to implement
them. Nevertheless, some of the Project achievements have been the modernization of
customer service, service collection procedures and the implementation of a new rate
schedule in September 1992 which eliminated the concept of "connection fees" and the
sale of titles, which was replaced by a rate per cubic meter of water consumed and by
a single service fee charge. To date, the rates have not been adjusted as recommended
by the Bank, in accordance with the annual inflation rate.
The financial objectives mentioned in paragraph 6.07 of the PCR were not
reached by EMPAGUA during the period 1988-1991 because it did not achieve the



- 20 -
projected levels with respect to the number of new connections, tariff income and higher
personnel costs than expected. It is acknowledged that improvements were achieved such
as improved collection procedures but as the results were lower than expected, as was
the case with accounts receivable, which although they decreased from the equivalent of
7.0 months of sales in 1988 to 5.3 months of sales in 1991, they never reached the four
months projected and, thus, they made a negligible contribution to the administrative and
financial improvement.
EMPAGUA did not achieve the annual objectives agreed in the period 1988-1991
with respect to financial execution as shown in Table 6 of the PCR, which compares the
actual figures taken from the External Auditors Report with the Bank projections, since
the projected income was not achieved nor the reduction in operational costs. With
respect to income, that corresponding to water service were only 8.7% lower than those
projected, however, since the estimated sewer system income did not materialize, it
shows an income deficit equivalent to 20%.
As to expenses, staff salaries and wages showed an excess of 48.4% above that
projected. According to the Bank's assessment, this was due to the transfer of the
drainage staff from the Municipality to EMPAGUA in 1987. Besides, as no attempt was
made to reduce the number of staff in the company, and because of the pressures over
salary increases within the public sector nationwide, this item increased. However,
expenses for chemicals, energy and other items was lower than projected thus offsetting
salary increases.
The Project was very ambitious and, therefore, the proposed objectives were
beyond the capabilities of EMPAGUA to achieve them. In addition to the above, the
delay in starting the project and the subsequent suspension of disbursements were an
obstacle to the execution of other components which would have resulted in benefits for
the Company. Management indicators showed an enormous difference between the
actual and the projected performance during the period 1988-1991. Thus, the Bank
supervision mission that visited EMPAGUA from January 27 to 31, 1992, informed the
Company that upon resumption of the project those indicators would be readjusted to
make them more realistic, as indicated in section IV of the Mission's Aide Memoire.
The Company's administration, however, decided to continue with the
arrangements initiated in November 1991, and on February 4, 1992, requested the Mayor
of Guatemala City and President of EMPAGUA, to request the Ministry of Finance to
request the partial cancellation of undisbursed Loan proceeds which later became a
request to totally cancel the undisbursed proceeds of the Loan.  This request was
accepted by the Bank on December 22, 1992.



- 21 -
In.         CONCLUSIONS
The Guatemala City Municipal Water Corporation, EMPAGUA, considers that
the draft Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the World Bank provides an
objective view of the Project based on the Loan and Project documents and on the
financial information derived from the Financial Statements reviewed by the External
Auditors, which EMPAGUA submitted to the Bank during the period of Project
execution (1988-1991).
EMPAGUA had the cooperation of Bank experts at all times, who provided
continuous advice during the different Supervision Missions and direct consultations to
Bank headquarters or through the Ministry of Finance.
The Project has not only left valuable recommendations to the Company
-included in the 83 documents produced by the Consultants and which will be gradually
implemented to improve administrative and operational performance- but also the
experience with respect to the existing capabilities within the Company to implement a
Project of such magnitude, as well as to avoid, in the future, the deficiencies which
became apparent during the partial execution of the Water Supply Rehabilitation Project,
some of which were due to lack of foresight or of timely action such as in the significant
delays with which the activities were initiated, as a result of the long internal
administrative process to secure the approval of the Loan Agreement, its date of
effectiveness and the selection and contracting of the consultant company.  These
circumstances, added to the suspension of disbursements that lasted for more than two
years, were unfavorable to EMPAGUA and made impossible the normal execution of the
Project.
Guatemala, April 6, 1994
EMPAGUA
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT



- 22 -
Part III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Project Timetable
Date                                         Date
Event                      PLanned           Revised                    ActuaL
Identification                                                          03/85
Preparation
Mission 1                 05/85             06/85;                     06/85
Mission II                                  08/85;09/85                09/85
Mission III               06/85             10/85                      10/85
AppraisaL                  07/85             02/86                      02/86
Loan Negotiations 1        06/30/86          07/86                      07/7-11/86
Board Approval             08/26/86          10/86                      10/14/86
Loan Negotiations 11                                                    07/12-15/882
Loan Signature                               12/31/87;03/30/88;         08/26/88 3
06/30/88;
Loan Effectiveness         12/86             11/29/88;01/27/89;         04/14/89
04/28/89
Loan Closing               12/22/924
Last Disbursement                                                       09/04/92
Proj. Completion           06/30/95                                     04/21/93 5
The Bank conditioned Board presentation of the loan to the communication of a satisfactory statement
by the Mayor of Guatemala City re the authority of EMPAGUA to take operationaL and poticy decisions.
2 On June 23, 1988, the Congress ratified the draft Loan agreement--but with modifications as to project
definition and allocation of loan proceeds. To take account of these changes nd the need to revise certain
dated covenants, the Bank and the Government renegotiated the Loan and project agreements.
3 The Goverrnment (Ministry of Finance) delayed signing the Loan agreement until after it had received
approvaL from the Congress, which required the prior endorsement of the Planning Secretariat and the Monetary
Authority of the project and the loan before considering the question of ratification. It took 22 months for
the Congress to compLete the ratification process. The Bank decided not to withdraw the Loan on the successive
grounds that: (i) Congress was about to finish its work; (ii) the project was an important cost-competitive
measure to provide water to poor people; and (iii) withdrawaL would jeopardize relations with the rest of the
Bank Lending program in GuatemaLa. According to Bank staff, an additional consideration was that it would have
been unreasonable to penalize the Administration for the shortcoming of Congress.
4 Corresponds to date when Bank canceLled undisbursded balance of Loan
5 Date coincides with termination of consultant's contract for technical assistance and other studies
constituting Part A of the project.  Having secured the option of new financing from a bi-lateraL Lender on
terms more attractive than the Bank Loan, the Goverrvnent decided to discontinue using the proceeds of the Bank
loan to finance the expansion program of EMPAGUA.



- 23 -
2. Actual and Forecast Cost and Sources of Financing
Actual                      Forecast
(in US millions)
Per-
cent (X)
Project Cost      Component                             Local    Fore.    Total    Local    Fore.    Total    Diff.
Part A: TA & Training                0.28      1.99      2.27       1.00   5.40      6.40     -64.5
Part B: Op. Improvemn'ts             0.43      0.87      1.30     2.70     6.30      9.00     -85.6
Parts C: Water SuppLy              0.00      0.00      0.00     2.80     6.10      8.90    -100.0
Part D: Spare Parts                  0.48      0.00      0.48     0.50     2.60      3.10     -84.5
Total Project Cost            1.19      2.86      4.05     7.00   20.40    27.40       -85.2
Finance Charges                      0.04      0.75     0.79      0.00     2.60      2.60     -69.6
Total Financing RequiremI'ts.        1.23      3.61     4.84      7.00    23.00   30.00       -79.0
Financing Plan   Source
Bank                                 0.00      3.61      3.61    ----     23.00   23.00    -84.3
EMPAGUA/Government                   1.23      0.00      1.23    7.00     -----      7.00    -82.4
Total Financing                      1.23      3.61     4.84    7.00      23.00   30.00    -79.0
_===  ====     ===2 ==   ~      ====      ==



- 24 -
3. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(USS millions)
Cal. Yr.     1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Appraisal   3.1   6.4   10.6  15.4  19.4  21.6  23.6  23.0
Actual       0.0   0.0    0.5   2.4   3.4  3.6    3.6   3.6
Actual as % 0.0   0.0    4.7  15.6  17.5  16.7  15.9  15.7
of Appraisal



- 25 -
4. Disbursement by Category
(USS millions)
Fore- Act- Undis-
Categorv                        cast  ual   bursed
1. Consultant's services        2.15  1.99  0.16
for Part A
2. Equipment & vehicles          4.37  0.87  3.50
for Part B
3. Computer Equipment           0.60  0.00  0.60
4-5. Goods for Parts B & C    7.43  0.00  7.43
6-8. Civil Works for             1.55  0.00  1.55
Parts B & C
9. Interest during const.       2.62  0.75  1.87
& other finance charges
10-11. Contingencies            4.28  0.00  4.28
23.00  3.61   19.39



- 26 -
5. Prolect Results: Part A
Page 1 of 2 pages
Percent
No.   Task               Completed   Comments
0     Project Unit       100          Supervised consultants' work for 32 months.
Administration      56         Deferred by EMPAGUA
1       Autonomy           0          Deferred by EMPAGUA
2       Organization      63          Suspended by EMPAGUA
3       Personnel         67          Suspended by EMPAGUA
4       Planning         100          Activity transferred to project director
and terminated in April 1992.
5     Finances &         100          Completed.
Accounting
6     Billing &          100          Completed. EMPAGUA in charge of implemen-
Collections                    tation.
7     Tariff Structure  100           Completed.
8     Meter Reading      100          Installation of softwear completed.
EMPAGUA in charge of implementation.
9     Pilot Cadastral   100           Completed.
Survey
10    Public Relations  100           Completed. EMPAGUA in charge of
implementation.
11    0 & M Practices   100           Completed.
12    Operation of        70          Studies suspended in April 1992.
Water Treatment
Plants
13    Distribution        65          Same as above.
Network
14    Pitometry          100          Completed.  EMPAGUA in charge of imple-
mentation.
15    Macrometering       48          Studies suspended in April 1992.
16    House metering      76          Same as above.



- 27 -
Table 5. (Cont'd.)
Page 2 of 2
17    Inventory Control 100           Completed.  EMPAGUA in charge of imple-
mentation.
18    Data Processing   100           Same as above.
19    Distribution         0          Deferred by EMPAGUA.
Expansion
20    Water Resources   100           Completed.
21     Training          100          Completed.
Overall Completion Rate           73



- 28 -
Table 6
EMPAGUA Financial Pertormance
Actual and Forecast Combined Income Statement and Sources & ApplctIons of Funds, 1987-1991
(0,000)
Summarized
Results, 
1987                   1988                   1989                   1990                   1991                 1988-1991        Dtff.,
Act
Fore-                  Fore-                  Fore-                  Fore-                  Forw                   Fore-        vs
Actual    cast         Actual    cast         Actual    cast         Actual    cat          Actual    cast         Actual    cast        Fore
Sources
Income                             25338    21923         25245    31289         29817    40834         45391    49760         42700    56799         143153   178882      -199
Water                             21150    20168         20448    23974         24106    30352         36158    34508          36400    39391        117112   128225       -87
Sewerage                           -          414         -         5644          642      8607         2200    12424           -       14424          2842    41099      -931
Connection                         3127      1312         4039      1638         4405      1839         6925      2788         6300      2940         21669      9205     135.4
Other                              1061        29          758        33          664        36           108       40          -          44          1530       153     9000
Cash Op Expenses
Personnel                         10489      8101        13498      9003        13524      9879        15202    10691          19207    11814         61431    41387       48.4
Chemicals                          1201      4225         1888      4782         2438      5236         2570      5491         2289      5787          9185    21296      -56.9
Energy                             6270      4879         6347      6321         6470      7553         8482      8505         9865      9611         31164    31990       -2.6
Other                              4648      4326         3231      5567         5007      6866         7346      8362         9544      10047        25128    30842      -18.5
Total Cash Op Exp           22608    21531         24964    25673         27439    29534         33600    33049          40905    37259        126908   125515        11
Inc beforeDep                       2730       392          281      5616         2378    11300          11791    16711          1795    195.40        16245    53167      -69.4
Non-op Inc                           524      5115           170     6704          500      6966            0      3634         13000     3931         13670    21235      -35.6
Gross Int Cash Gen                  3254      5507          451    12320          2878    18266          11791    20345         14795    23471         29915    74402      -59.8
Less Debt Service                   1510      2505         2921      8542         9283    14047          9375    16841          19121     17599        40700    57029      -28 6
Interest                          690      1741          848      4800         2818      9558          900    10703          5643    11705          10209    36766      -72.2
Amortization                      820       764         2073      3742         6465      4489         8475      6138         13478     5894         30491    20263       50.5
Net Int Cash Gen                    1744      3002         -2470     3778         -6405     4219         2416      3504         -4326     5872        -10785    17373    -162.1
Borrowings                         33008    10574          9511     12119          1510    17401         8229    42246           5210    10047         24460    81813      -701
Contributions                       2160         0         3082         0         3500         0         4742    26116           5789         0        17113    26116      -34.5
Total Source             36912    13576         10123    15897         -1395    21620         15387    71866          6673    15919         30788   125302       -75 4
Applicaions
investments                        15125    10972          4596    14162          7426    20597         11452    71842          13771     15692        37245   122293      -69 5
Working capital                    32162      3087         8210      2200         -5731     1434         11778      368         21963       634        36220      4636     681.3
Other                             -10375      -483         -2683     -466         -3090     -411         -7843      -44        -29062      -407       -42678     -1628    2521.5
Total Applications         36912    13576         10123    15896         -1395    21620         15387    71866          6672    15919         30787   125301       -75.4
Debt-Service Cov.                     2.2       2.2          0.2       1.4          0.3       1.3          1.3       1 2          0 8       1 3          0.7       1 3
Seodfinancing                        115       274         nag        267         nag.       20.5         21.1       4.9        neg.       37.4        neg.       14.2
(net nt cash gen I



- 29 -
Table 7
Actual and Forecast Performance Indicators
1987             1988             1989             1990             1991
.. . ...... .....  ........... ...  ..............  -- -- -- -- -   ------ ------
Covenanted                 Fore-             Fore-            Fore-            Fore-            Fore-
Perfor.mance Targets    Actual  cast    ActuaL  cast    Act_-al  cast    Actual  cast    Actual  cast
-------------------,  ------   ------ .  ... .....   ...... .   ..... ..... ......  ......... ......  ------ ... ------.
ENrlcyees/!,OCC Conn.    19.4   13.9        17.5   13.1      15.2   12.5      14.4   11.9      13.2   11.0
Percent (%) of Conn.        71      65        72     67        69     72        66      76       67      81
with workirg Meter
Workirg ratio             0.89   0.98       0.99   0.82      0.92   0.72      0.74   0.66      0.96   0.66
(Cash operatirg exp./
revenwes)
Operating cost/conn.       167    155        165    155       157    155       132    150       108    150
(in 1986 prices)
Accounts ReceivabLes       6.6    7.0        7.0    7.0       7.8    6.0       7.3    4.0       5.3    4.0
(months outstanding)
Other Key Indicators
Production               85498  88700    89466  95380    94645  99545    97600  99545    90400  99991
Amount BiLLed            37956  64805    35889  68567    45430  58732    70272  60704           NA   62994
Unaccounted for (X)       55.6   26.9       59.9   28.1      52.0   41.0 1/  28.0   39.0        NA    37.0
2/
Wuarer of E.rployees      2340   1645      2129   1661       1917   1670      1860   1657      1740   1904
N.rber of Cornections  120658 125600   121664 132900   126329 140300   129500 150600   131730 160000
Cur-ent Assets           22668  2 772 6    28424  31072    41907  2972    55064  32880    51066  35141
C..rrert Liatilitzes     14275  11913    13547  13804    34390  12719    48119  15216    66093  16723
Cujrrent Ratio            1.59   2.33      2.10   2.25       1.22   2.34      1.14   2.16      0.77   2.10
1/ Reflects expectation that nei tariff system would be introduced in 1989.
21 Preliminary data.



- 30 -
8. Compliance with Covenants
Type of
Section    Compliance                     Description                    Compliance                 Remarks
A. PROJECT AGREEMENT
2.05          PE        Engage consultants to carry out Part A no later    Yes        Contract signed on 04-13-89.
than January 31, 1989.                                        Effective 08-22-89.
2.07          PE        Design and implement procedures, satisfactory to    No        However, manuals still pending.
the Bank for the use, control and maintenance of
l__________                vehicles, by April 30, 1989.
2.08(i)        PE        Present to the Bank a detailed proposal for         Yes       Provided January 1992.
replacing "Water rights" and its tariff structure by
June 30, 1990.
2.08(iu)       PE        Implement a new tariff structure, by January 31,    Yes       Implementation deferred to
1991.                                                        September 1992
2.09.a.(i)      PE        Present with the assistance of consultant an AP for  Yes      In line with Bank recommendation,
the implementation of the project, after 120 days            first AP scheduled tasks to give
the commencement of consultancy services.                     priority to solution of management/
organization problems. Consultants
had prepared draft AP to emphasize
studies of water resources and system
expansion.
2.09.a.(ii)     PE        Present an annual action plan to be implemented     Yes       Second AP: (i) rescheduled comple-
during the succeeding 12 months.                             tion dates of tasks identified in first
AP; and (ii) terminated work of con-
sultants.
2.09.b.(i)      PE        Meet the Key Performance Indicators specified in    No        After suspension of disbursements of
Schedule 3 of the project.                                   aU Bank loans to Guatemala (1990),
Bank was in no position to take
measures beyond urging implementa-
tion of tariff increases and cost-
containment actions.
2.09.b.(ii)     PE        Carry out action described in Section 2.09.(a).     Yes       Consultants computerized commercial
operations, budgeting/accounting, and
inventory control. The water
resources study was carried out.
Stopped before completion was work
on autonomy/organization, metering,
plant efficiency, leak control. The
tariff system was rationalized. The
distribution expansion study was
never carried out.
2.09.c.        PE        Present semi-annual progress report (February and   Yes       With some delay.
August).



- 31 -
Type of
Section     Compliance                      Description                     Compliance                  Remarks
3.01           M         Appropriate administrative, financial and account-    No         EMPAGUA, having contracted
ing practices and qualifie.d and experienced man-               auditors with its own resources to
agement.                                                        implement new procedures, made
some progress in untangling incom-
plete records re work-in-progress,
plant & equipment, and inventories.
However, progress was not sufficient
but for auditors to issue unqualified
opinions re financial statements.
3.02           M         Operate and maintain its plants, equipment and        No         EMPAGUA did not complete all
property in accordance with water utility practices.            relevant studies for improving plant
efficiency of operations and did not
execute relevant project components.
3.03           M         Ensure against such risks and account consistent     Partial     Applies only to new vehicles.
with appropriate practice.                                                                           l
4.01.a)         F         Maintain financial records of the utility and of the  Yes
Project                                                                                              l
4.01.(b)         F        Furnish its audited report to the Bank not later       Yes       Delivery was late in 1989.
than six months after the end of the year.                                                           l
4.01(c)         F         Maintain records and accounts of Bank financed        Yes
expenditures
4.02           F         Provide to the Bank a financial plan for the          No         In 1988 & 1989, Bank urged prepara-
following 3 years by September 30 of each year.                 tion of plans. In early 1990, Bank
staff recommended use of consultants
to prepare plans; set a deadline (April
25) for their delivery; and advised
EMPAGUA that, if this deadline
were missed, staff would recommend
non-approval of new contracts.
However, after suspension of
disbursements (1990), Bank lacked
means for secking compliance. (In
January 1992, EMPAGUA supplied,
for the first time, projections for
revenues and expense for 1992.)
4.03.a)         F         (i) achieve a self financing ratio of 0% for 1988;     No        Bank urged measures to meet targets
5% for 1989; 10% for 1990; 15% for 1991 and                     --primarily increasing revenues and
25% for 1992 on.                                                reducing operating costs-but after
suspension of disbursements, addi-
tional means for seeking compliance
were not available to Bank.
4.03.b)         F         (ii) prepare forecasts of the self financing ratio by  Yes
September 30 of each year and take all necessary
measures to meet the targets.
4.04.a)         F         Maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.2.        Yes        Except in 1991.



- 32 -
Type of
Section    Compliance                     Description                    Compliance                 Remarks
4.04.b)         F        Prepare forecasts of the current ratio by September  Yes
30 of each year and take all necessary measures to
meet the targets.
4.05          F         Prepare a three-year investment program by          No        Same answer as applied to Section
September 30 of each year.                                   4.02.
4.06          F         Limit any capital expenditure, exceeding US$500     No        EMPAGUA did not seek prior Bank
thousand.                                                     authorization in the drilling of several
new wells.
4.07          F         EMPAGUA shaU review with the Bank its               Yes
financial condition, within 9 months of
effectiveness and at any time.
B. LOAN AGREEMENT
3.01          PE        The Government shall allow the Municipilidad,       No        Given the macroeconomic difficulties
through EMPAGUA, to carry out the project, and                of Guatemala, the Bank, having sus-
provide funds, facilities and services, as needed.           pended disbursements, did not remind
the Government of its obligation to
provide sufficient resources to com-
plete the project.
4.01          F         The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to:  No        Bank urged measures to enhance
(i) achieve the financial and performance targets            revenues and to contain costs; but
(ii) adjust tariffs and other charges.                       after suspension of disbursements,
additional measures were not
available to the Bank
4.02          F         The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a plan to    Yes       Paid on December 88.
pay all outstanding debt owing by EMPAGUA to
EES up to June 30, 1988, by October 31, 1988



- 33 -
Table 9. Bank Missions
Type of                      Number of                        Days in        Pcrformance
Mission             Date        Staff        Speciality        Field            Rating               Problem
Identification              02/85         2           ENG;FA             14               NA           NA
Preparation I               06/85         4          ENG;FA;             38              NA            NA
CON              (2)
Preparation 11              08/85         1            CON               21              NA            NA
Appraisal                   02/86         4          ENG;FA;             40              NA            NA
CON              1
113
Supervision 1               11/86         2           ENG;FA             28                1           NA
Supervision II              01/87         2           ENG;FA             10                1           NA
Supervision III             07/87         1             ENG               4                1           NA
Supervision IV              01/88         1             ENG              4                 1           NA
Supervision V               03/88         2           ENG;FA             10                1           NA
Supervision VI              09/88         2           ENG;FA             10                1           NA
Supervision VlI             12/88         2           ENG;FA              8                1           NA
Supervision VIII            08/89         1             FA               3                NA           NA
Supervision IX              11/89         2           ENG;FA             20               3            FIN;PROJ. MGT
Supervision X               03/90         2           ENG;FA              8                3          SAME AS ABOVE
Supervision Xl              06/91         2           ENG;FA             3                3           SAME AS ABOVE
Supervision XII             01/92         2           ENG;FA              6               3           SAME AS ABOVE



