Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4373-CU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt23.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 7, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authoriuation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of July 15, 1986
Officidl Foreign Exchange Rate                Parallel Foreign Exchange Rate
US$1.00 = Q  1.00 (quetzal)                    US$1.00 = Q  2.50
Q  1.00 = US$1.00                              Q  1.00 = us$0.40
MEASURES
1 mm       =  milimeter         =   0.04 inches
1 cm       =  centimeter            0.39 inches
1 m        =  meter             =   3.28 feet
1 km       =  kilometer         =   0.62 miles
1 1        =  liter             =   0.26 US gallons
1 m3       =  cubic meter       =   264 US gallons
1 m3/sec   =  cubic meter           22.82 MGD =
per second           million US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCIE     -    Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica
CACM     -    Central American Common Market
CIDA     -    Canadian International Development Agency
COPECAS  -    Comite Permanente Coordinador de Agua y Saneamiento
DSA      -    Division de Saneamiento Ambiental
EEC      -    Empresa Electrica de Guatemala S.A.
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
EMPAGUA  -    Empresa Municipal de Agua
IDB      -    Inter-American Development Bank
IGSS     -    Social Security Institute
INDE     -    Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion
INFOM    -    Instituto de Fomento Municipal
NRA      -    National Reconstruction Administration
PAHO     -    Pan American Health Organization
SEGEPLAN -    Secretaria General de Planificacion
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme
UNEPAR   -    Executing Unit for Rural Water Supply
UNICEF   -    United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID    -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR omciLu USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Guatemala
Implementing
Agency:                 Municipality of Guatemala City, acting through
EMPAGUA (Empresa Municipal de Agua)
Amount:                   US$23.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    15 years including a grace period of 5 years.
Relending Terms:          The Borrower would onlend YJS$22.3 million equiva-
lent in quetzales of the proceeds of the loan to
the Municipality of Guatemala City with the same
grace period, repayment terms and interest rate
as the Bank loan. EMPAGUA would provide the
servicing and would bear the foreign exchange
risk of this subsidiary loan.
Project Objectives        The project would assist EMPAGUA in becoming a
and Description:        more efficient organization, capable of providing
good service without recourse to operating subsi-
dies from the Government. Main specific objec-
tives are: (a) the improvement of EMPAGUA's
methods and procedures of management and opera-
tion; (b) the establishment of improved tariff
structure and levels; (c) the reduction of
unaccounted-for water and rehabilitation of
wells; and (d) an increase of water production to
meet the demand for water through 1994.
The project comprises: (a) technical assistance
for operational development and studies on user
charges, groundwater potential, and sector
adjustments; (b) training for all levels of
staff; (c) operational improvements, including
equipment and vehicle purchases, replacement of
house connections and minor distribution mains,
installation of water meters, construction of a
meter repair shop, and purchase of imported
chemicals and spare parts; and (d) construction
of additional capacity for production of water.
The technical assistance and training components
would be implemented in association with a mentor
water utility in another country.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performa=
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discicsed without World llank authorization.



-ii-
Benefits:                  The benefits would consist of increased water
availability to consumers, improved water
quality, and improvements in EMPAGUA's management
and finances. Additional water availability
would enable the servicing of a population of
about 700,000, mainly in poor areas of the city.
Risks:                     The main risk is a possible delay caused by
opposition from certain quarters to the strong
commitment of both EKPAGUA1s management and the
Central Government for the proposed measures to
improve EMPAGUA's administration and finances.
The present outlook for timely execution,
however, is favorable. There is also a risk of
delays because of the multiplicity of activities
planned under the project. Yearly assessments
and revisions of the operational development
program would minimize this risk.
Estimated Project Costs             Local          Foreign         Total
Technical Assistance
and Training                       1.5            3.5             5.0
Equipment and Works                   3.5           10.6           14.1
Chemicals and Spare Parts            0.4             2.0            2.4
Base Cost                             5.4           16.1           21.5
Physical Contingencies               0.5             1.7           2.2
Price Contingencies                  1.1            2.6            3.7
Total Project Costl/               7.0           20.4           27.4
Interest during
Construction                       0.0            2.6            2.6
Total Financing
Requirements                       7.0           23.0           30.0
Financing Plan
World Bank                            0.0          23.0           23.0
EMPAGUA                              6.9            0.0             6.9
Government Budget                    0.1            0.0             0.1
Total Financing                       7.0          23.0           30.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank     CY 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual        2.0    2.6    3.6    4.8    4.8    3.2    1.2    0.6    0.2
Cumulative   2.0    4.6    8.2   13.0   17.8   21.0   22.2   22.8   23.0
Rate of Return:           21%
Map
1/  At July 1986 price level (US$1 = Q2.50).  No taxes or other duties are
included, as the Borrower is exempt from taxation.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$23.0 million to the Republic of Guatemala to
assist in the financing of a Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would onlend US$22.3 million
equivalent to the Municipality of Guatemala City at the same interest rate,
term, and grace period of the proposed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled -Guatemala Economic Memorandum" (Report No.
4195-GU) was circulated to the Board in June 1983. A Bank economic mission
visited Guatemala in November 1985 and its report is in preparation. The
main findings of the mission are summarized below. A summary of the main
social and economic indicators is attached as Annex I.
Economic Resources and Structure
3.        The country's varied climate and wide distribution of good soils
allow cultivation of a variety of agricultural products, including coffee,
tropical crops, and high value cool weather fruit and vegetables. The
country has some petroleum and nickel deposits, a substantial
hydro-electric power potential, and some exploitable geothermal fields.
Because of its natural beauty, year-long mild climate, archaeological
monuments, and proximity to the United States, C-uatemala also has a good
potential for tourism.
4.        The small size of the country makes external markets important to
growth, while making the economy vulnerable to fluctuations in its terms of
trade. The traditional source of Guatemala's growth has been agricultural
exports, mostly produced on large plantations, with coffee and cotton alone
accounting for more than half of total exports until the mid-1970s.
Manufactured goods grew to nearly 30 percent of total exports during
1978-80, with 80 percent going to countries within the Central American
Common Market (CACM). Tourism expanded to rank third after coffee and
cotton as a foreign exchange earner in the mid-1970s, but decreased
severely as security conditions deteriorated in 1980-81.
I/ Part I is substantially the same as in the President's Report for the
Power Distribution Project, No. P-4344-GU dated June 5, 1986.



- 2 -
5.        The population of about 8.0 million (mid-1985) is growing at a
rapid rate, about 2.8 percent per year. Up to two-thirds of the population
live in absolute poverty, primarily in the subsistence economies of rural
Indian villages. Seventy-three percent of children one to five years of
age suffer malnutrition, and infant mortality is high (67 per thousand).
Fifty-five percent of the population do not have access to safe water, and
70 percent lack suitable systems of excreta disposal. For rural areas, the
figures are 82 percent and 80 percent, respectively. Life expectancy for
Indians is approximately 45 years, compared to 70 years for non-Indians.
The average adult literacy rate is only 54 percent, one of the lowest in
Latin Ameri a. Only about 20 percent of Indians speak Spanish, and their
literacy in any language is estimated at 29 percent, compared to 70 percent
among the rest of the population.
Economic Growth
6.        Guatemala enjoyed steady and substantial economic growth with a
low rate of inflation between 1965 and 1978. GDP grew at six percent per
year, fostered by favorable world prices for the country's commodity
exports, growth of manufactured goods to CACM countries, and expansion of
tourism. The private sector played a major role in diversifying exports by
developing cotton and sugar production, and by creating the largest
industrial sector in Central America. The relatively small public sector
mainly provided basic infrastructure, while low public revenues and
expenditures seriously limited the growth of social and economic services.
A steady inflow of private investment helped maintain a comfortable balance
of payments position with substantial exchange reserves, low levels of
foreign debt, and a strong currency.
7.        The country has experienced serious economic difficulties since
1979, caused mainly by (i) falling demand and prices for commodity exports
and rising prices of imports, which led to a 24 percent deterioration in
the terms of trade; (ii) economic and political difficulties in Central
America which adversely affected exports of manufactures to the CACM; and
(iii) unsettled political conditions in Guatemala which discouraged private
investment and foreign financing, and stimulated private capital outflows.
These unfavorable developments resulted in a deceleration in GDP growth
from five percent in 1978 to a negative one percent per year in 1981-85.
In 1985, real GDP per capita was 18 percent below its 1980 level;
unemployment and underemployment were almost 50 percent higher, estimated
at over 40 percent of the economically active population.
Fiscal and Balance of Payments Performance
8.        Financial stability and a favorable climate for domestic and
foreign investors were the main objectives of Government policies until the
late 1970s. Key policy elements were a stable currency at par with the US
dollar, freedom from external payments restrictions, minimal taxation, and
generally low public deficits, at less than two percent of GDP. Public
expenditure was low compared with that of countries at a similar stage of
development: current expenditures fluctuated around four percent of GDP,
public investment around nine percent, and public revenues around 12
percent. Foreign borrowing, mostly from development agencies, was kept at



- 3 -
modest levels. These policies resulted in insufficient public expenditure
for the social sectors; basic services in education, health and rural
development remained inadequate. The pattern of economic growth benefited
only a small segment of the population, exacerbated economic dualism, kept
the country vulnerable to fluctuations in world demand for a few
commodities, and constrained industrial development because of the limited
size of the CACK.
9.        A sharp departure from cautious fiscal and monetary policies took
place in 1980-81. In an effort to stimulate the economy, the Government
doubled the level of public investment to 8.0 percent of CDP. However, a
sharp decline in fiscal revenues from foreign trade and domestic production
brought about a substantial increase in the public deficit, which reached
7.1 percent of GDP in 1981. The growing deficit was financed mostly
through an expansion of Central Bank credit to the Central Government, and
relaxation of monetary restraint supported a large outflow of private
capital while interest rate ceilings on bank loans and deposits (11 percent
and 9 percent, respectively), were lower than in foreign markets. Domestic
inflation reached only 11-12 percent per year, reflecting the moderating
effects of the draw-down of exchange reserves to finance imports. The
balance of payments, however, worsened dramatically. Imports rose,
reflecting the increase in public sector investment, and compounded the
effect of falling exports. In an attempt to stem the massive outflow,
controls on capital payments were introduced.  In October, 1981, Guatemala
received assistance from the IMF totalling US$110 million. Nevertheless,
at the end of 1981 net foreign exchange reserves fell to US$23.5 million,
down from US$733 million in 1978, when they were equivalent to 5.3 months
of imports.
10.       To redress the deteriorating situation the Rios Montt Government
undertook a series of austerity measures in 1982-83, aimed at containing
the disequilibrium in public finances and balance of payments. To this
purpose, public wages and salaries were frozen, the number of public
employees was reduced, and execution of premature and dubious investment
projects was halted. As a result, the public sector deficit was cut to 4.3
percent of GDP. The rate of inflation decreased from about 11 percent to
6.5 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of payments also
decreased, to about 2.6 percent, as imports declined much more rapidly than
exports and net short tern capital outflow dropped.
11.       Based on the above austerity measures as well as an increased tax
effort, the Government reached agreement with the IMF on a stand-by
arrangement of US$120 million equivalent covering the period August 1983 -
December 1984. The key measure in the program was a tax reform which
became effective in July 1983, and was designed to (i) stimulate exports
through the phasing out of existing export tanes; and (ii) produce a net
increase in tax revenues which the Government estimated at 2.1 percent of
GDP, mainly through the introduction of a ten percent value added tax
rebateable to exporters in place of an existing sales tax.
12.       This stabilization effort was interrupted when a new Government
took office in August 1983, and did not press for stabilization measures
fearing disruption of its policy to prepare for free elections of a
civilian government after thirty years of military rule. In the absence of



-4-
appropriate corrective actions, financial problems became more acute. The
value added tax rate was reduced to seven percent, resulting in the loss of
the expected increase in revenues. Since the fiscal targets were not met,
the IMF stopped disbursing under the standby arrangement in mid-1984.
13.       As the economic situation deteriorated, the Government took a
number of measures in an effort to defend the official parity of the
quetzal.  These included a substantial increase in short-term borrowing by
the Central Bank and the Government. Exceedingly complex exchange
regulations were also introduced providing for the conversion at the
parallel market of different shares of export receipts for different
products and services. The exchange system became unmanageable, and a
source of uncertainties for entrepreneurs. As a result, non-coffee export
growth was negligible, despite a significant depreciation of the Quetzal in
real effective terms of about 35 percent on a trade weighted basis.
14.       The complex exchange regulations and the insufficient tax effort
(equivalent to only 7.8 percent of GDP) were at the center of a sharp
fiscal deterioration. As export proceeds surrendered to the Central Bank
at the official rate were insufficient to cover payments at the official
rate, the Central Bank filled this gap through purchases in the parallel
market and thus incurred losses equivalent to four percent of GDP. As a
result, the combined fiscal deficit and losses of the Central Bank
increased from about four percent of GDP in 1984 to over five percent in
1985. This increase brought about an acceleration of money in circulition
which put pressure on both the inflation rate and the parallel market rate:
the latter reached 3.8 per US dollar in September/October, 1985; inflation
increased to reach an annual rate of about 31.5 percent. Arrears in
external trade payments reached US$580 million, of which US$320 million
have beeb settled with 5-year US dollar bonds issued by the Government and
accepted by foreign creditors.
Government's Strategy and Program
15.       The civilian Government which took office in January 1986 has
stated its intention to take action urgently on stabilization and
adjustment problems. Its basic strategy is to concentrate on stabilizing
the economy through a reduction of financial imbalances as a prerequisite
of economic adjustment. The main development objective is the reduction of
poverty and the consolidation of a stable domestic environment, to attract
foreign investment and achieve a sustained rate of economic development.
The Government intends to achieve this objective principally through the
support of private production --particularly of agro-industry--to increase
industrial exports outside Central America and achieve some import
substitution. The resulting employment generation and expansion of the
domestic market, together with an increase of the productivity of the poor
through more efficient basic services, would augment the opportunities for
a wider participation in the benefits of economic growth.
16.       To implement the above strategy, the Government implemented a
program of short-term measures in June 1986 which is the basis for
negotiations for a stand-by arrangement with the [MF. The main focus of
the program is on stabilization measures in 1986 to: i) seek a reduction
of the combined deficit of the Central Government and the Central Bank to



-5-
about three percent of GDP, mainly through the valuation of imports, for
the purpose of import taxes, at the parallel market rate instead of the
official rate; a selective consumption tax on luxury items; and a temporary
windfall export tax, mainly on traditional commodities; and ii) simplify
the exchange rate system to make it more supportive of efficient resource
allocation by establishing a regulated parallel market rate, initially set
at Q2.5 - US$1.0, for trade transactions, capital flows, and service
payments for debt disbursed after May 1986. The official rate of Q1.0 -
US$1.0 is to be applied only to the servicing of external debt disbursed
before end May 1986, and the exchange rate for a limited number of service
transactions (mainly tourism receipts and workers' remittances) will
fluctuate freely. These measures will be complemented by tight uonetary
and credit policies, flexible interest rates, and a reduction in price
controls. The short-term program also includes measures for the promotion
and diversification of exports--in addition to the beneficial effect that
the above streamlining of the exchange system will have. The proglam also
seeks poverty reduction through increased employment, availability of
essential medicines to the poor, improvement of school lunches,
availability of textbooks in primary schools, and support of the use of
modern agricultural inputs by small farmers through a temporary (one year)
cost subsidy.
17.       The implementation of the short-term program represents a
sigaificant step in addressing the serious economic situation, and a
creditable effort for the first year the Governaent is in office.
Neverthelsss, the Government recognizes that a number of additional
measures need to be prepared in 1986 for implementation in 1987 to
strengthen the prospects of economic recovery. These measures include the
consolidation of and further progress in the mobilization of resources
through measures substituting for the temporary windfall tax on exports;
further efforts to reduce the industrial protection which is provided by
the regional tariff; strengthening direct incentives for non-regional
exports; and further progress towards unification of the foreign exchange
rates. As regards public investment planning, the General Secretariat for
Planning (SEGEPLAN) has prepared a program totalling Q2,388 million over
the period 1986-90, which the Cabinet intends to review in the light of the
prospective amounts of domestic and foreign resources.   The social sectors
(mainly health, education and low cost housing) account for 47 percent of
the total; energy, communications and transport for 36 percent; and the
production sectors for 17 percent.
Medium-Term Prospects and Constraints
18.       G vernment authorities are aware that, despite improved prospects
for 1986, Guatemala's economy remains vulnerable. Real GDP is expected to
remain unchanged and the balance of payments is expected to improve in
1986, with a reduction of the current deficit to about US$100 million,
compared with US$250 million in 1985. The main factors of the iuprovement
would be a 12 percent increase in exports, mainly from more favorable
coffee prices, and the elimination of oil imports for electricity
production (about US$69 million in 1985) resulting from the commissioning
of the Chixoy hydropower project in January 1986. There is a serious
scarcity of foreign exchange for the recovery of industrial production,
which is 10 percent below its 1981 level. Higher coffee exports and



-6-
petroleum import savings in 1986 will represent a net gain of about US$200
million, equivalent to about a third of the debt service obligations. Debt
service ratios would be high till 1989, between 32 and 40 percent, and
likely require debt rescheduling. Growth prospects are also constrained by
the limited prospects of the country's main traditional exports, the time
needed to expand the domestic and regional markets, the effort needed to
develop export industries, and the necessarily restricted growth of public
expenditures.
19.       Nevertheless, Guatemala's endowment of yet unexploited resources
and the expected decline in debt servicing burden after 1990 offer a
favorable basis for achieving economic recovery through the implenentation
of feasible stabilization and adjustment measures. GDP growth could
accelerate gradually to 4-5 percent in 1990, and average 3 percent in
1986-90, assuming timely actions on the part of the Government to
streamline and stabilize the exchange system, reduce the combined fiscal
and Central Bank deficit, support non-regional exports, industrial
*coduction and agriculture, and provide efficient basic services. Private
.nvestment would recover in response to an appropriate policy framework and
benefit from the expansion of export opportunities, including those offered
by the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and the increased availability of credit
and external technical assistance to restructure manufacturing
enterprises. With expor:s growing faster than imports, and a levelling off
of debt service payments reflecting the effects of substituting long-term
official assistance for commercial debt, the deficit in the current account
of the balance of payments could decline significantly in the late 1980s,
from close to four percent of GDP in 1985.
20.       Guatemala's ability to recover to a satisfactory rate of economic
growth and balance of payments position before the end of the decade will
require continued substantial international financial assistance. During
1980-90, the yearly net flow will have to average about US$100 million.
Multilateral and bilateral sources could meet a significant proportion of
this requirement, but net lending from private sources is likely to be
limited. Therefore1 some debt rescheduling would have to be provided by
international commercial banks. Guatemala would also have to maintain an
active IMF program during the period.
External Debt and Credi. orthiness
21.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been
provided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) and the U.S. Agency
for International Development (USAID). IDB funds carried a substantial
concessional element and often contained components repayable in local
currency. The IDB made loans for agriculture (credit, Irrigation and
fisheries), electric power, transportation, rural education, water supply,
and health services. CABEI concentrated mainly on regional projects in
highways, telecommunications, and in recent years, on power and water
supply projects. Venezuela assisted mostly in power generation and
transmission. USAID financed mainly rural development, rural
electrification, rural education and health facilities.



-7-
22.       In 1985, outstanding and disbursed medium- and long-term public
external debt amounted to 33 percent of GDP. Debt service payments on that
debt were equivalent to 20.4 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services, and are projected to reach 38.3 percent in 1986.   International
agencies accounted for 31 percent of total disbursed and outstanding debt
in 1985, with the Bank group holding about 9 percent of this total. Of
other major lenders to Guatemala, IDB holds 17 percent of external public
debt outstanding, CABEI 5 percent, Venezuela 10 percent, and the USAID 6
percent.
23.       Assuming that the Government will carry out its plans to
restructure economic incentives, public finances, and external debt, and
that it will use external debt capacity prudently to address the problems
in productive sectors and in a few main social areas in order to reactivate
the economy and expand public services for the urban and rural poor,
external debt indicators are expected to improve by 1990. Under these
conditions, Guatemala is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totaling US$390.6
million (including US$20 million on third window terms) for 15 projects.
Of these, three were for education; four for power; three for
telecommunications; two for highways; one for earthquake reconstruction;
one for livestock development; and one for industrial credit. Ten
Bank-financed projects have been completed in Guatemala, four in electric
power, two each in telecommunications and education, and one each in
livestock and highways. Performance audit reports have been issued for two
power and two education projects, and the livestock, telecommunications,
and earthquake reconstruction projects. The performance audits conclude
that project objectives generally have been achieved; however,
implementation has been much slower than forecast during appraisal.
Effectiveness of all Bank loans has been delayed because of a lengthy
ratification process. Most projects now under implementation have also
been delayed by the limited administrative capacity of the institutions
involved as well as weak inter-agency coordination. However, disbursements
of Bank loans have reached a satisfactory pace in the past two years, as
the Government placed greater emphasis on improving the quality of public
sector management. Two large power projects have accounted for the bulk of
disbursements since 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
25.       Bank financing for infrastructure projects has supported the
creation of more efficient public agencies. It also has been instrumental
in maintaining a Bank presence in the country through lending operations,
while continuing a dialogue with the authorities on the desirability and
implementation of a larger development effort. Bank lending for education
has more directly encouraged the undertaking of key development challenges
we believe the Government faces --such as expanding the provision of basic
services, both productive and social, to the rural and urban poor, and
supporting the formation of a modern industrial private sector-- with the
objective of promoting economic diversification and easing the growing



-8-
social tensions which have characterized Guatemala's recent past. The
Basic Education Project (Loan 2328-GU) has supported the establishment of
an agency for low cost textbook production including bilingual texts to
improve access to school by Indians. It also made school construction more
efficient by merging the numerous responsible entities into one agency.
Policy improvements in bilingual education, curricul"m development,
textbooks, and education planning are also part of the project. To
increase the access of the poor to ownership of their dwelling, draft urban
land legislation was prepared under Loan 1315-CU (Earthquake Reconstruction
Project). This legislation, which also provides for rationalizing urban
land use and reducing land speculation, is scheduled for high priority
consideration by the new Congress. Under the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 2383-GU), the Government increased fiscal incentives, relieved some
exporters from import restrictions, and expanded import tax exemptions to
promote manufacturing exports to markets outside the region. The project
includes technical assistance to enterprises and private financial
intermediaries to prepare and implement export projects. Under the
project, the Government will review and strengthen the existing system of
export incentives, institutional framework and financial mechanisms, with
particular attention to small-scale enterprises. Under the Third
Telecommunications Project (Loan 2385-GU), the national telephone agency
started to transfer to the Government 45 percent of net revenues (US$13-15
million annually) which are in excess of the agency's investment financing
requirements. The agency also is introducing organizational improvements
required by a major increase in the size of its operations. Encouraging
progress has been made also in the Bank's dialogue on issues in the power
sector, which are addressed by the Power Distribution Project (US$81.0
million) which was approved by the Board on June 23, 1986. Co-financing
with suppliers and bilateral sources was arranged for both the Third
Telecommunications Project and the Chixoy supplemental loan (Loan
1605-1-GE).
26.       IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The
second, a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras
Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL), a company established in Guatemala to exploit the
nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in
July, 1973. After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and
in arranging additional financing made necessary by substantial cost
overruns, the plant began operations in mid-1977. The third was a loan of
US$3.0 million to Cementos Progreso, S.A. (formerly Cementos Novella S.A.),
a Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing
cement production facilities. The expansion was completed and commercial
operations started in 1979.
27.       The Bank is considering to support the Government's policy
efforts by providing financial resources and coordinating its lending with
other major sources of external assistance. The Bank's program could
include lending to support policy changes as well as project-related
financing for the development of non-regional exports in industry and
agriculture; improved management and efficiency of public institutions in
electricity, water supply, and municipal services; efficient services in
rural development and health; and rehabilitation of marginal urban areas.



-9-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Service Levels and Quality
28.       Service levels for water and sanitation in Guatemala are the low-
est in Central America. Both urban and rural areas are poorly served: in
1982 house connections were provided to only 55% of the urban and 6% of the
rural population; a sewerage system was used by 37% of the urban popula-
tion, while latrines or septic tanks were used by 10% of the urban and 2OZ
of the rural families. Service quality also is low. Rationing is wide-
spread in Guatemala City, and treatment is deficient in most localities.
Operations and maintenance in the majority of the operating entities are
poor due to inadequate institutional structures.
29.       Inadequate water and other services are associated with poverty
and unsatisfactory health conditions. Life expectancy at birth is 60 years
vs. 65 years on the average for all countries in Latin America. The prin-
cipal cause of death is intestinal disease, which is directly related to
inadequate water and sanitation services.
Sector Organization
3o.       Guatemala has many agencies involved in water and sanitation.  On
the national level, the main agencies and their respective responsibilities
are the following: (a) the General Secretariat of Planning (SEGEPLAN) for
economic and physical planning; (b) the National Reconstruction Committee
(NRA) for reconstruction of damaged infrastructure; (c) the Xaya-Pixcaya
Unit of the Ministry of Communications and Public Works for the construc-
tion of a major transmission line to Guatemala City; (d) the Institute for
Municipal Development (INFOK), under the Ministry of Development, for
finance, construction and operational advice in urban areas outside the
capital; (e; the Division of Environmental Sanit.cion (DSA) of the Ministry
of Public Health and Social Assistance for services to dispersed rural
areas; and (f) the Executing Unit for Rural Water Supply (UNEPAR), under
the Ministry of Health, for concentrated rural areas. On the local level,
construction, operations and maintenance are the responsibility of munici-
palities. In Guatemala City, the municipality has established a special-
ized agency, the Empresa Municipal de Agua (EMPAGUA), to operate, maintain
and charge for water and sewerage services.
31.       Until recently these agencies were uncoordinated, and their
policies and programs unrelated to common goals. Cooperation started to
improve in 1982 with the establishment of the Permanent Committee for the
Coordination of the Water and Sanitation Sector (COPECAS), with membership
drawn from all the relevant agencies. UNDP, with the assistance of PAHO.
is actively involved in financing technical assistance and training for



- 10 -
COPECAS and its member agencies. In 1986, a new Ministry for the Develop-
ment of Urban and Rural Communities has been created to identify the needs
for public services and coordinate their expansion at the community level.
Sector Investments and Financing
32.       Low service levels reflect inadequate levels of investment in the
sector which, in turn, result from a number of institutional weaknesses.
These include: (a) lack of internal cash generation by operating agencies
due mainly to inadequate pricing and cost recovery policies; (b) too few
well-prepared projects; (c) insufficient governmental support to the sec-
tor in the past; and (d) administratively inefficient agencies, often
unable to spend the Government budgetary funds which are allocated to them
for projects. If service levels are to increase to meet the requirements
of the rapidly growing population, the institutions responsible for plan-
ning and executing investments must be strengthened.
33.       Between 1973 and 1982, a total of only Q142 million (US$142 mil-
lion) was invested in water and sanitation facilities. This amounted to
2.2Z of the Central Government budget and 0.3% of the GDP. About 80% of
these investments were spent on water supply expansion and rehabilitation
and the remainder on sanitation. Roughly two-thirds were destined for
urban areas. Multilateral and bilateral development agencies have sup-
ported investments in the sector, including USAID, IDB, CIDA, BCIE, and
UNICEF. The total amount of external funds made available from 1973-82 was
US$55 million.
34.       In 1983, COPECAS, supported by SEGEPLAN, prepared a National Plan
for the Water Decade. The plan aims at accelerating infrastructure devel-
opment in order to reduce enteric and diarrheal diseases, facilitate eco-
nomic growth, and improve the living conditions of the poor. The plan pro-
vides a useful framework for detailed program of action, though its tar-
gets are too ambitious, because of the time required to improve the present
constrained fiscal situation, lack of adequate tariff and cost recovery
policies, and implementation weaknesses of sector institutions.
Bank Sector Strategy
35.       This would be the first of a number of projects that the Bank
would consider assisting in the water and sanitation sector as part of its
strategy to support basic infrastructure and social services in Guatemala.
Bank assistance to the sector will aim at: (a) strengthening the manage-
ment and structure of the sector's institutions and raising their adminis-
trative and financial capability for increasing investment; (b) improving
services which raise the health and productivity of the population; (c)
increasing the mobilization of domestic resources through the gradual
implementation of tariff structures and levels that improve cost recovery
while making services affordable to the lowest-income groups; and (d)
improving operational efficiency and productivity, reducing water losses,
and promoting conservation.
36.       Assistance in the sector by other multilateral and bilateral
development agencies has generally emphasized construction of works.
Except for some recent efforts through a UNDP-supported program, none of



- 11 -
these investments have focussed on institution-building and the provision
of substantial technical assistance. The proposed loan would be a vehicle
to transfer the experience the Bank has acquired in helping other member
countries to build stronger water and sanitation institutions.
37.       The Government has requested that this first project be directed
toward the problems of Guatemala City, where a growing demand and deter-
iorating finances in the water company require urgent solutions. The
preparation of this project helped stimulate a greater recognition by the
Government of the need to strengthen sectoral institutions and policies.
At the Government's request, the project would include a sector study for
the identification of adjustments at the national level which could include
the restructuring of responsibilities for water extraction, distribution
and finance between Central Government and municipal agencies, and the
creation of autonomous enterprises.
The City and EMPAGUA
38.       Guatemala City is the largest and fastest growing city in Guate-
mala. It is estimated that the population will grow from 1.4 million pres-
ently to 1.8 million and 2.7 million in 1990 and the year 2000, respec-
tively. Guatemala City is served by a public water utility, EMPAGUA, which
provides most of its supply and about 85% of its connections. About
875,000 people are served through house connections, while the remaining
population (525,000) receives water--some of it of questionable quality--
from standposts and private wells.
39.       EMPAGUA is a subordinated branch of the Municipality of Guatemala
City.   Altbough EMPAGUA owns assets and has its own executive management,
staff, and accounting system, it has no juridical personality and most man-
agement decisions are subject to Municipal Council approval. The lack of
autonomy has hampered EMPAGUA's performance. Outside interference in staff
management and a lack of well defined personnel policies and systems have
led to some overstaffing and unevenly qualified and motivated staff. The
new management of the Municipality and EMPAGUA are committed to (i)
strengthening management, organization, and finances of the agency under
the proposed project and (ii) preparing a program to increase the legal,
financial, and operational autonomy of EMPAGUA and implementing it
before June 30, 1987.
40.       A rapid population increase in Guatemala City during the 1970s
has created a need to modernize EMPAGUA's organization and policies in
order to satisfy its enlarged scale of operations. Because of a delay in
modernization, the agency has faced over the last five years serious prob-
lems in operations, management and finance which reduce its ability to
efficiently meet the demand for its services.
41.       The water service in Guatemala City is deficient in quantity and
quality. Water service is intermittent in most parts of the city (4-18
hours per day). Water pressure is uneven, and treatment is sometimes
deficient. Inappropriate procedures, a lack of equipment and vehicles, and
gaps in information on the location of pipes have caused inadequate
operations and maintenance. Ineffective supervision affects the quality of
meter reading. Although unaccounted-for water cannot be reliably quanti-



- 12 -
fied, water waste and unbilled use is known to be high due to a large
number of illegal connections, a high proportion of walfunctioning domestic
meters (40%), and frequent leaks in the distribution system, mainly due to
inadequate construction and pipe installation in the older parts of the
city. Electricity, which amounts to about 40X of total expenses, is wasted
as pumping stations are not operating efficiently. Accounting controls are
acceptable to record project expenditures, although poor historical records
and delays in introducing certain fixed assets into the accounting systems
(e.g. the sewerage system of the city, which was formally transferred from
the Municipality in 1984) have led to qualifications in EMPAGUA's external
audit report regarding fixed asset balances.
42.       A unique but antiquated tariff s-stem has discouraged water con-
servation and encouraged the proliferation of illegal connections. Tfhis
system is based on the sale of water titles on the capital market to indi-
vidual customers. Titles are based on multiples of a "paja", a measure
equal to 60 m3 a month. The structure of charges consists of: (a) a one
time upfront charge for the title and connection; (b) a fixed monthly
charge up to the -paja entitlement; and (c) a monthly charge for excess
consumption after the fixed charge. This tariff structure is not suffi-
ciently sensitive to levels of water consumption as consumption allowed
under the fixed charge is generally higher than average consumption lev-
els. As a result, large consumers have no incentive to save water, while
users in the low-income group who consume less than the minimum allowance
end up paying a high price per m3 actually consumed.   Also, high entry
fees for title and connection make the system uniaffordable to many of the
poor. EKPAGUA and the Government are aware of the difficulties created by
this water title system and have started to study alternatives to replace
it. The proposed project includes preparation and implementation of a plan
to modify the water title system and tariff structure (para. 47).
43.       EMPAGUA has been aware of its problems for some time, and has
initiated pilot schemes to improve consumption metering, inspect for leaks,
ensure that consumption charges are billed appropriately, and overhaul its
computerized billing and accounting system. The planning process has been
improved, and units for physical, financial and institutional planning are
in place. Many of the managers and staff are dedicated, loyal and compe-
tent professionals and technicians, who are prepared to make the institu-
tional and financial changes which are needed to provide Guatemala City
with a satisfactory water and sanitation service. The change in January
1986 to a civilian government has generated substantial political support
for reform. Since January 1986 EMPAGUA has had a new and experienced
General Manager who has successfully carried out reorganization efforts in
the city's telephone agency in the recent past.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
44.       The project was identified in February 1985, was prepared by
EMPAGUA, and was appraised in February 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington from July 7 to July 11, 1986.   The Guatemalan delegation was



- 13 -
led by Hr. Guillermo Salazar, Director, Ministry of Finance.  The main fea-
tures of the loan and project are described in the Loan and Project Sum-
mary. The project is part of a master plan for water supply improvement
and expansion in the metropolitan area prepared by consultants in 1981,
which recommended the urgent construction of deep wells in the valley of
Guatemala and Xaya-Pixcaya areas.
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed project is a first main step in assisting EMPAGUA
become a more efficient organization, capable of providing good service
without recourse to operating subsidies from the Government, and able to
undertake the larger investments which will be needed in the future to
expand its services. Detailed project objectives comprise: (a) finance:
the establishment of a new tariff structure which will increase revenues,
eliminate operating subsidies, encourage conservation, and ensure an
affordable minimum supply to low-income groups; (b) administration: (i) the
improvement of EMPAGUA's methods and procedures of management and of its
organlzation; and (ii) the establishment of staff training programs; (c)
operations: (i) the improvement of operations and maintenance in existing
-acilities; (ii) the establishment of conservation programs (including leak
control and metering); (iii) an increase in the efficiency of existing
wells and pumping stations; (iv) increased production to meet water demand
through 1994; and (v) the establishment of an adequate capacity to repair
and maintain equipment and facilities; and (d) planning: strengthening of
existing plannuing for the expansion of the water supply system.
Project Description
46.       The project would mainly improve the functioning and efficiency
of the existing water and sewerage system through a program of operational
and administrative improvements. Central to the concept of the project
would be the establishment of an association between EMPAGUA and a water
utility which has solved similar problems in another country and would act
both in an advisory and training capacity. Consultants associated with the
mentor company would assist EMPAGUA's management to design and implement
new operating systems.
47.       The project comprises the following components:
(a)  Technical assistance for operational development and studies.
Consultants would diagnose, design, implement and document
improvements in the organization, management, methods and pro-
cedures of EMPAGUA. Separate studies would cover water resources
and groundwater potential, expansion of the distribution system,
structure of user charges (including the water title system),
inventory and revaluation of fixed assets and identification of
sector adjustments at the national level.
(b) Training, including on-the-job training, training in local insti-
tutions and overseas visits.



- 14 -
(c)  Operational improvements to support the technical assistance and
to increase the efficiency and quality of the existing water sys-
tem, including: (i) equipment purchase and installation to reha-
bilitate existing wells, pumping stations, ard the distribution
system and to improve EMPAGUA's technical capabilities; (ii) pur-
chase of about 35 specialized vehicles for maintenance and
repair; (iii) minor distribution works (mainly replacement of
house connections and minor distribution mains); (iv) purchase of
imported chemicals and spare parts for about one and one half
years of operation; and (v) installation of water meters and a
meter repair shop.
(d)  System expansion, through the construction of wells for incre-
mental production of about 0.6 cubic meters per second of water.
48.       The proposed project would complement and make usa of technical
assistance which is currently provided through bilateral sources or under
consideration, including a study financed by the French Government on the
flows in water distribution systems and a study financed by Japanese
assistance on the groundwater extraction capacity in the valley of Guate-
mala.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project, including
price and physical contingencies, is US$27.4 (Q68.8) million of which 74%
or US$20.4 (Q51.0) million is foreign exchange.  A table at the beginning
of this report shows the breakdown by project components. The base cost,
expressed in July 1986 prices, is US$21.5 (Q53.8) million. Physical
contingencies of 10% were calculated on all elements of the project except
the sector adjustment study. Price contingencies, equivalent to about 16X
of the sum of base cost and physical contingencies, were calculated assum-
ing that local inflation decreases gradually from 251 in 1986 to 10% in
1989 and thereafter. International inflation is assumed at 7.2Z in 1986,
6.8% in 1987-88, 7.0% in 1989, 7.1% in 1990, and 4.0% thereafter. Total
finance required, including interest during construction, is estimated at
US$30.0 (Q75.0) million.
50.       The Bank would finance US$23.0 (Q57.5) million, or 77X of total
financing required, representing the foreign exchange cost of project
investments of US$20.4 (Q51.0) million and interest during construction up
to US$2.6 (Q6.5) million (representing the interest expected to be due dur-
ing the first four years of the project). Counterpart financing would be
provided from EMPAGUA's internally generated resources, except for the rel-
atively small national sector study component, which would be provided by
the Government. The loan would be made to the Government, which would on-
lend to the Municipality the quetzal equivalent of US$22.3 million, with
the same grace period, repayment term and interest rate as the Bank loan.
The Municipality would pass on the proceeds of the loan to EMPAGUA, which
will provide for the servicing of the loan and bear the foreign exchange
risk. The financing by the Bank of interest during construction is
justified because of the time required to achieve the project's objective



- 15 -
of strengthening EMPAGUA's finances. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the Municipality would be a condition
of effectiveness.
Project Implewentation
51.       Terms of reference of the consultants to be employed to assist in
carrying out the sector adjustment study would be furnished to the Bank for
its review by October 31, 1986. Terms of reference for all other consult-
ancies were completed during appraisal. Designs and specifications of
equipment and works for the first two years of project implementation would
be completed by the time of Board Presentation. Three utilities in other
countries have been identified for the provision of overall advisory
services.  EMPAGUA would conclude a  twinning" arrangement and hire
consuLtants for operational development and training by May 31, 1987. The
signing of contracts with consultants for operational development would be
a condition of disbursement of civil works and purchases of equipment and
materials. The water sector adjustment study would be completed during
1987-88 by an inter-agency task force led by the national planning agency
(SEGEPLAN), with assistance by consultants.
52.       The program of operational consultancies and improvements would
be executed in phases. Phase 1, scheduled from June 1 to July 31, 1987,
would involve a comprehensive assessment of EMPAGUA's organizational struc-
ture and its systems, procedures and practices. Based on the results of
Phase 1, the consultants would, during Phase 2 (August 1 through September
30, 1987), develop a plan of action for operational strengthening, includ-
ing proposals on how individual systems would be improved during the dura-
tion of the project and a detailed action plan for the first year of imple-
mentation. The overall action plan would be implemented in subsequent
phases of 12 months each, subject to an assessment at the close of each
year of the accomplishments during the previous year and the development of
a detailed action plan for the following year. The overall and yearly
action plans would be approved by both EHPAGUA and the Bank by September 30
of each year from 1987 through 1990. Adequate procedures for the use, con-
trol and maintenance of vehicles would be in place by September 30, 1987,
and would be a condition of disbursement for the vehicles to be purchased
under the project. Under the project, EMPAGUA would achieve the annual key
performance targets specified in Annex IV, and would carry out the actions
identified in the above overall action plan and annual action plans.
53.       Project coordination and supervision of consultants would be car-
ried out by the existing Institutional Development Unit of EMPAGUA, which
would report directly to the General Manager. Equipment installation and
small construction works would be supervised by EMPAGUA staff attached to
the relevant operating units. The works would be carried out in part by
contractors and in part by force account (para. 54). Consultants would
assist in monitoring work quality and initiating new systems of supervi-
sion.



- 16 -
Procurement
54.       Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
Procurement Method a/
(US$ Million)
ICB         LCB       LIB        Other      Total
Tech. Assist.,               -          -          -          5.7 bh      5.7
Training & Studies                                         14.7]       [4.7]
for EMPAGUA
National Water               -            -        -          0.7         0.7
Sector Studies                                             10.7]       [0.71
Equipment and               9.2           1.5      0.8 c/    0.3 d/    11.8
Materials                [9.21         [0.51    [0.8]      [0.1]      [10.61
Civil Works &               3.7           1.2       -         1.2 eI      6.1
Install. of Equip.      [1.1]         [0.4]                [0.3]      [1.81
Chemicals & Spares          3.1          -          _         -           3.1
[2.61                                         [2.61
Total                16.0           2.7       0.8        7.9       27.4
[12.91         [0.91    [0.8]      {5.8]      [20.41
a!  Figures in brackets are amounts to be financed by the Bank:
ICB = International Competitive Bidding.
LCB = Local Competitive Bidding.
LIB - Limited International Bidding.
h/  To be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines from a short list of
consultants in association with a proposed mentor water company.
ci  International limited tendering of well equipment and spare parts.
d/  Local shopping of small purchases (less than US$30,000 each).
Ti  Force account and work order for installation and repair of meters,
pipe replacement, house connections, and minor repairs.
55.       Equipment, materials and civil works would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", except for equipment and
materials contracts which are less than US$50,000 each which would be pro-
cured through local competitive bidding and limited international bidding,
and civil works contracts less than US$300,000 equivalent each. At the
Government's request, manufacturers of equipment and materials in member
countries of the Central American CommDn Market (CACM) would have a margin
of preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the C.I.F. cost or half
the amount of taxes on the importation of such goods, whichever is lower.
Regional manufacturers are likely to participate in bids for distribution
pipes. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that the local
procurement procedures to be applied are consistent with the Bank's
guidelines. For contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for goods and



- 17 -
US$200,000 equivalent for civil works (i.e. about 902 of the total
estimated value of goods and 60% of the civil works contracts), the Bank
would review and approve tender documents before they are issued.
Disbursements
56.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for all direct imports and the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured goods internationally pro-
cured;
(b) 30% of expenditures for equjipment and local materials locally
procured;
(c) 30% of total expenditures for civil works;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services and training;
and
(e) the amount due for interest and other charges on the Bank's loan
up to a maximum of US$2.6 million.
57.       For civil works contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equiva-
lent, disbursement would be made against statements of expenditure certi-
fied by EMPAGUA.  Documentation for these expenditures would be retained by
ENPAGUA for inspection by the Bank missions and would be annually audited
by independent auditors (para. 65). All other disbursements would be fully
documented. In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank of Guatemala with an initial deposit of
US$1.5 million by the Bank. Implementation and disbursement schedules are
in line with standard profiles of water projects in the region. The
closing date for the loan would be December 31, 1994, six months after
expected completion.
Retroactive Financing
58.       In view of the need to urgently start the repair and rehabilita-
tion of pumping stations, wells, and distribution system, retroactive
financing of US$500,000 is proposed.
Financial Performance
59.       EMPAGUA's finances are very weak, mainly due to a 40% decline in
tariffs in real terms since 1981, as nominal tariffs were not increased.
Income before depreciation showed an estimated loss of Q3.8 million in
CY1985, an amount equal to about 38% of tariff revenues and about 30% of
total revenues. This lcss was financed, as in several previous years, by
deferring the payment of electricity bills. At the end of 1985, EMPAGUA
owed the Empresa Electrica de Guatemala (EEG) about Q26.8 million. Total
accounts payable by EMPAGUA at the end of 1985 were estimated to be more
than three times the operating revenues for the year. Collection by
EMPAGUA of service charges is slow: the accounts receivable at the end of
1985 were equal to about seven months of sales.



- 18 -
60.       At the beginning of 1986, EMPAGUA and the Municipality recognized
that tariff increases and cost containment measures were needed to prevent
operating losses from worsening considerably in 1986 and 1987. A large
(40%) increase in operating costs was foreseen, as the costs of imported
chemicals more than doubled due to the new exchange rate; and labor costs
were expected to increase by at least 28%.
Financial Objectives
61.       Since assuming office in January 19;6, the new administration of
EMPAGUA has taken decisive actions to improve the finances and operations
of EMPAGUA. First, they have approved new tariff levels and structure
which are expected to provide an increase of about 77% in revenues from
water sales. Second, they have introduced operational and administrative
improvements which should lead to additional increases, though modest, in
billing and collections and containment of operating costs.
62.       The new tariff levels are the result of increases in both the
fixed monthly charge and in the charge for consumption above allocated
quantities. Increases in fixed charge range from Q1.75 for most users
(i.e. those with a 30m3 allocation) up to Q40 for the largest consumers.
Increases for excess consumption range from QO.40 to 0.65 per m3. The
rates remain practically unchanged for users with a 20m3 allocation (i.e.
all low-income families).
63.       The measures taken thus far will allow EMPAGUA to cover its oper-
ating costs and debt service for the rest of 1986 and for 1987. However,
additional financial and operational adjustment measures by EMPAGUA are
needed in order to continue to meet its obligations in a timely manner and
generate internal funds sufficient to cover a reasonable share of its
investment needs. The main measures include: (a) tight control over
operating costs, especially for personnel and electricity; (b) substantial
increases in operating efficiency, particularly through the reduction of
unaccounted-for water and water waste; (c) improved collections efficiency;
(d) water tariff increases; and (e) the introduction of charges for the
operation of the sewerage system.
64.       Under the proposed project:
(a) EMPAGUA would maintain tariffs and other charges sufficient to
cover operating expenses, working capital needs, debt service
payments and contributions to capital expenditures starting in
1987, increasing gradually to not less than 25Z of three-year
average capital expenditures for 1991 and thereafter. This would
require water tariff adjustments roughly in line with inflation,
and the introduction and gradual increase of sewerage charges
starting in 1988, preferably through a surcharge on water
tariffs;
(b) EMPAGUA would maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities for 1987 and thereafter of not less than 1.2;



- 19 -
(c) EMPAGUA would achieve the key performance targets for the years
respectively specified in Annex IV (para. 52), which include: (i)
a decrease in accounts receivable to four months of sales by 1989
and to three months by 1993; (ii) a reduction in the working
ratio to .65 by 1993; (iii) a decrease in yearly operating cost
per connection from Q155 in 1986 to Q130 by 1993; (iv) an
increase in connections with working meters from 651 in 1986 to
95% in 1994; and (v) a decrease in the number of employees per
1,000 connections from 13.9 in 1986 to 9.4 in 1994;
(d) EMPAGUA would submit to the Bank by November 30, 1988, detailed
plans for modifying the water title system and the structure of
tariffs, and implement such a plan by January 30, 1989;
(e) EMPAGUA would review the size and composition of a three year
investment program with the Bank by September 30 of each year
beginning in 1987, and capital expenditures in excess of $500,000
which are not included in the investment program reviewed by the
Bank would require Bank approval; and
(f)  as a condition of effectiveness, the Government, ENPAGUA and EEG
would execute an agreement providing for the settlement of the
arrears of more than 60 days of EHPAGUA to EEG by December 31,
1986. A similar provision has also been agreed under the Power
Distribution Project approved by the Board on June 24, 1986.
Operational Performance, Reporting & Audit
65.       Under the project EMPAGUA would prepare the following reports in
order to facilitate the planning and monitoring of its operational and
financial performance: (a) annual operational plans, which are due four
months after the start of operational consultancies and every year there-
after; (b) annual financial plans, due September 30 of every year; (c)
semi-annual progress reports, due ten months after the start of operational
consultancies and every six months thereafter; (d) annual audit reports,
due June 30 of every year; and (e) a completion report, due six months
after the closing date of the Bank loan. Annual operational and financial
plans would be linked to consultancy work (para. 52) and the Government
budgetary process. These plans would address the key performance targets
agreed under the project (Annex IV) as well as monitoring indicators
designed to track the achievement of improved operating and financial
efficiency and progress on the project. Key performance targets and
monitoring indicators would be revised each year, based on project
experience and comments from the Government and the Bank.  In addition,
financial plans would include three-year financial projections and
investment plans and note specific measures, including tariff and revenue
adjustments and other operational measures which are needed to comply with
covenants and agreed targets. Semi-annual progress reports would cover
project implementation and achievement of key performance targets and moni-
toring indicators, and EMPAGUA would have its financial statements, the
Special Account and statements of expenditures audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank.



- 20 -
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability
66.       The project would improve Guatemala City's existing water supply,
and provide the minimum expansion consistent with near-term growth
expectations. The project is an integral part of EMPAGUA's investment
program, which provides a least-cost solution to the expansion needs of the
water supply system.
Summary of Benefits
67.       The benefits of the project would accrue from water quantity
increases, improved water quality and progressive improvement in EMPAGUA's
finances. Significant increments in water are expected from: (i) recovery
of water losses in the existing system; (Ii) improved operation of pumping
stations and deep wells; and (iii) additional production from new wells.
Incremental water available through the project is estimated at about 36
million cubic meters per year. Water quality would be improved through
implementation of better systems of maintenance and control, particularly
at treatment plants. EMPAGUA finances would be strengthened by increased
water sales and revenues, containment of operational costs, Government
assistance in reducing accounts payable, and postponement of investments in
water extraction due to the above increased availability of water to the
users.
68.       During the first three years of the project, the incremental
water made available by the project would eliminate the present water defi-
cit and the related need for widespread water rationing. Operational
improvements and the new production will each year make mDre water avail-
able for extension of the system to outlying areas. In the medium term, as
more water becomes available, water from gravity and low-cost sources would
enable EMPAGUA to limit the use of the most expensive sources (wells with
high pumping costs) to periods of peak demand. The additional water recov-
ered or developed under the project would allow ENPAGUA to meet the demand
until 1994.
Economic Analysis
69.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated to be
21%, which is above the range of the opportunity cost of capital in
Guateuala  10-12%). Its calculation is based on the expected revenues
derived from the incremental water produced, the investment costs
(including technical assistance), and the incremental operating costs.
Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return would be 16X in case the
cost of imports increases because of a shift of the exchange rate to Q3.0 -
US$1, and 18% in case the proportion of unaccounted-for water improves only
modestly, from 47% to 40%.
70.    The above estimates are only a measure of minimum benefits.  The
project is likely to generate additional benefits accruing from improvement
of public health and hygiene, enhanced property values, employment genera-
dion, and greater well-being of the population, which cannot be quantified
reliably and, therefore, are excluded from the above calculations. The
consumer surplus is also excluded from the calculations.



- 21 -
Social Impact
71.    About 90% of Guatemala City's population would benefit from the
project. All existing users (of which 54% have a supply contract and 30%
receive water from EMPAGUA through standpipes, tankers, and illegal connec-
tions), would benefit from more reliable supplies and better quality. In
addition, the incremental water produced in the project would facilitate
about 100,000 new connections serving 700,000 people, mainly in the outly-
ing marginal communities surrounding the city. At least 3/4 of the popula-
tion which would benefit from these connections is estimated to have
incomes below the urban poverty threshold of $430 per capita per year.
About 60% of funds invested in the project would improve the quantity and
quality of water for the poor. In addition, under the project, the system
of water titles and tariffs (paras. 42 and 45) would be modified to make
charges more affordable to the urban poor.
Management Impact
72.    The project would substantially improve EMPAGUA's operational effec-
tiveness and efficiency through the introduction of new management systems
in the following areas:
A.  Organizational Development.  Improved organizational structure and
information system.
B. Operation and Maintenance of Supply Systems. Improved procedures
for pumping stations and treatment plants, with emphasis on system-
atic periodic maintenance of electro-mechanical equipment and effi-
cient operation of treatment facilities. Deep well supplies would
receive special priority.
C. Operation and Maintenance of Distribution Systems. Introduction of
modern methods to improve measurements and reduce waste, including:
(i) pitometer practices; (ii) macrometering to measure flows of pro-
duction sources, treatment plant outputs and city sectors; (iii)
domestic metering and meter repair; (iv) updating and completion of
distribution system mapping; (v) detection and repair of leaks and
introduction of a program of preventive maintenance; and (vi) con-
struction procedures for replacement of small size pipe (flautas) in
the older parts of the city.
D.  Commercial Systems.  Improved meter reading, billing, collecting
practices, and customer relations. A survey of existing and poten-
tial customers would be completed. An estimated 23,000 presently
illegal connections would be incorporated into the system, and a
permanent system developed for detection and connection. Public
relations systems implemented under the project would play a key
role in improving EMPAGUA's public image.
E. Financial Systems. Emphasis on tariff structures and improved
accounting systems. The present system of 'pajas de agua", which
encourages waste, would be modified to encourage conservation and
cross-subsidization of the poor. The accounting system would be
improved to offer better support to management.



- 22 -
F. Personnel Systems. Modern personnel practices would be introduced,
including job descriplions, job qualifications, evaluations, struc-
tured promotions, merit pay and staff training.
G. Planning and Design. Better knowledge of water resources and costs
of expansion and operation would strengthen planning for future
investments and preparation of the investment program. Design
standards will also be improved.
Financial Impact
73.    Without the financial and physical measures proposed under the proj-
ect, large and growi-g operating and cash deficits, together with water
deficits, would continue. Service connections would expand only modestly.
The efficiency improvements and tariff increases envisaged under the proj-
ect would eliminate financial deficits, and thus, the need for subsidies
from the Government or the Municipality. In addition, reduction of water
losses and conservation measures under the project would permit a five-year
postponement of large investments which are needed for the next stage of
expansion of water sources. This postponement is estimated to have a
present value of Q64 million, assuming a discount rate of 15Z.
Environmental Impact
74.       The project would result in improvement in the sanitary and
environmental conditions in the metropolitan area of Guatemala City by
increasing access to adequate quantities of clean water and by improving
operations and maintenance iu both the water and sewerage systems. The
municipality has recently completed a series of projects financed by IDB
for a sewerage system. The system, which has been transferred to EMPAGUA
for operation and maintenance, would adequately dispose of most of the
incremental water produced by the project. Per capita consumption in mar-
ginal areas is relatively small; therefore, the water to be distributed to
marginal areas not covered by the sewerage system would be adequately
removed through individual disposal systems.
Risks and Safeguards
75.    The main risk is a possible delay caused by opposition from certain
quarters to the strong commitment of the management of EMPAGUA and the
Central Government for some of the proposed changes which are politically
difficult (e.g. reducing staff, charging more to larger users in order to
cross-subsidize the poor, requiring water conservation). Favorable circum-
stances however, are expected to minimize this risk.  First, there are new
civilian government authorities with a political mandate for change.
Second, there are fiscal constraints in Guatemala which limit the
availability of government subsidies. And third, there is a new and
experienced General Manager in EMPAGUA who has successfully carried out
reorganization efforts in the city's telephone company.
76.       Another risk concerns the multiplicity of activities planned
under the project to achieve rapid and balanced institutional
rehabilitation. Some of these are novel for EMPAGUA and there is a risk of
delays because of staff resistance to certain changes. The project design



- 23 -
reduces this risk through yearly assessments and revisions of the
operational development program. This would allow the management of
ENPAGUA to take actions which are both necessary and feasible at the
appropriate time. The substantial use of consultants and the association
with the twinning agency would also help the managers in defining and
impleuenting the program.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I am satisfied that the rroposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
August 7. 1986
Washington, D.C.



-24                                      Annex I
Page 1 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA
Reference Groups (HRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate        LAC          Europe
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    108.9        108.9       108.9
Agricultural (% of total)         23.0        23.7        28.9
GHP PER CAPITA (US)                    ..         ..      t160.0      1782.8      1973.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         4568.0      5699.0      7744.0
Urban pop. (l of total)           34.3        36.5        40.9        68.9       48.4
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        2.8         2.8         2.3         1.6
Urban                                        3.6         4.1         3.6        3.7
Life expect. at birth (yrs)       48.6        54.3        59.8        65.6       67.9
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                     12.1
Stationary pop. (mill)                                  26.9
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              182.8      220.9       245.9        53.5      149.1
Pop. age structure (X):
0-14 yrs                        46.9        45.8        43.9        38.7       31.3
15-64 yrs                       50.4        51.4       53.2        57.1        61.5
65 and above                     2.7         2.8         2.9         4.3        7.2
Crude birth rate (per thou)       46.7        44.6        40.9        30.1       23.0
Crude death rate (per thou)        17.1       13.3         9.6         7.7        8.8
Total fertility rate               6.8         6.5         5.8         3.9        3.0
Infant mart. rate (per thou)    113.5         93.7        65.6       56.1        53.8
Child death rate (per thou)        16.0        8.0         5.1         4.3        5.0
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)         7.6        18.7        19.8
Users (% of married women)        ..         7.0        25.0       46.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)            86.2        98.8        97.5       105.2      101.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)      91.5        95.3        94.6       109.3      129.5
Proteins (grams per day)        56.2        55.7        53.8       65.0        88.4
Pop. per physician (thou)          3.8         4.7          ..         1.3        1.1
Pop. per nurse (thou)              7.9         1.3          *-         1.2        0.9
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)       0.4         0.5          ..        0.4         0.3
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total       11.3        38.0       52.3        66.3        76.5
Urban      29.9        88.0        89.0       77.0        95.1
Rural        1.5       12.0        18.0       44.6        62.6



-25-                                    Annex I
Page 2 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate       LAC          Europe
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        1380.0     1704.2      2310.7
Female (%)                      12.9       13.4        14.9       23.9        36.6
Agriculture (%)                 64.0       60.0        56.9       31.8        43.2
Industry (%)                    15.2       17.1        17.0       26.0       25.0
Participation rate (%)
Total                           30.2       29.9        29.8       32.3        42.9
Male                            52.0       51.1        50.1       49.2        54.5
Female                           7.9        8.1         9.0       15.4       31.4
Age dependency ratio               1.0        0.9         0.9        0.8         0.6
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                            5.2        5.0         5.3
Urban                            5.2        4.9
Rural                            5.3        5.1
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                           22.0       28.5        37.2
Urban                           56.0       67.8
Rural                            4.0        5.4
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                  50.0       57.0       74.0       107.3       108.9
Male                  55.0        62.0       78.0       109.7      111.0
Female                45.0        51.0       67.0       105.8      106.6
Secondary: Total                 8.0        8.0        16.0       49.1       55-5
Male                 10.0        9.0        16.0       44.5       60.2
Female               7.0         8.0        15.0       46.7       50.6
Pupil-Teacher ratio;
Primary                         32.5       35.3       36.0        29.8       24.7
Secondary                        7.7       15.6        14.2       16.3        18.0
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                  28.0       38.4        55.2       95.4
INCOSE, CONSUMPTION* AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equfvalent)           149.6      192.7      178.4       999.0     1176.4
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%                                60.0        55.0
Lowest 20%                                  5.0        5.5
LoweSt 40%                                 13.0        14.1
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                                230.0 a
Rural                                                 160.0 a
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                                                 66.0
Rural                                                 74.0
Passenger cars/thou pop.           6.3       11.5                   45.8       93.3
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)        27.4        29.5       23.1        94.9      141.4
EPD July 1986
N Not avaiabb
Nute: Gro vrwag are popuatien weighted. Country cowage dopends on doa avaIlability and Is not uniform- Uness otherwinp
note'd 195 es o any yes betwn lG  nd 19 1973 batwn 1970 and l7ft and most rent estimate betwen w and 1985.
a. 1017.



..  - 26 -                       ._.___   ____ .    -e  3.- a f .6
DEFINITIONS OF SOClAI. INICATOILS
Note; MlIOh tim data  drnnfm nous eermtily judgpd time o aufkenutie arnd reliabk. it bha.uWk Aw be at-led ihat ihn nub rt he mnsnertailmgmaII
woparblebecame of tbe lac o   tardmarizddeinmui andL cnce' uamd bh dilecnt counrc ntlollLina the mami Th dat; ar.c n'nrehltk%%. uxtlul ma
dacribe aden of mampitude. indeste trn. and ehraikne7e canumn mnaJr dilrence leviwn tousiure
Time reluree pomp a* c tl)e tam canan por  .f time autjac counaE and (2) a coamtr. grup tubh snehal hapher awrapc mnuma than the 'unmr'
pump .fri.,euab  canay macpm (r'ilwh Incomet Oil Empenters' group wimre"Miiddl Incomtn North Alruw and Muddle F.'ratehichn  ;ss lewrea .tr nnp
ocoutwural affities). In ime rere proup dat Ibr aerp  mw  uutatlmon weighied anthan  meank for cIw t.h iataer mald laun  als wnbhtn rame,rult
ert uecotsmne irt * rotp imadams for that indicatoer Sims the coveag olcoutnlrc nus umim e mndaamter,.depends *en that asaalabhml murdsm and us nal unalorna.:
mutton mast beeariedmraint rawing of uerindicamotr toamothur. These  a  sverag anh ask lrn* nif tmatnnuna mthr salts of oneandnsteem ala amUntr amusing 
ti country and releteatme pu
AREA (thousand sq.km.n                                           Cruk Birth Rose (per rhouasd) - N umberof li c births in the )ear
Feud-Total surface area comprsing land area and inland waters;  per thLtus;atd of mid-)car population: 1960. 1970. and lI Y8 di a.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crud Deah Rota r(pr thiuaud)- Number of deaths in the year
&uhmuI-Estimae   of agricultural arm  used temporarily or       per thousand of mnid-yar popubtion; 1960 1970. and 19X3 data.
pertntantly for crops. pasturs market and kitchen gardens or to  Gmsr RpreAwdri    Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
preent age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capit estimates at cunent          in 1960. 1970. and 1933.
market primaL calulated by me  convesion method as World        FWidi fhuiqr-Aecpws. Au.. (thpomndJi-Anmual nuan-
BEmm Astl (198143 basis) 193113 data.                           ber ofacceptors of birth-control devics under auspices ornatonal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family plnming program.
consumption of conuea primay eney (con and lignite.             hmar1 flhmiuug lser (prrteut if   tkd aomaja-The pemcn-
petroleum  natural  s ad hydro-. nudear and geothermal lec-     tage of married women of child-baring age who are practicing or
triciry) in kilogramn or oil cquivalent per capita: 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any fonn of contraception. Women
1982 dua.                                                       of child-bearing age are enerally women aged 15 49. although for
some countries conmrceptive usage is mesured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                                  group-
The! Pa.stifimi  Mid-Year (ulasaiir)-As or July 1 1960 1970,    FOOD AND NUTRITION
and. 1983 data.
lIn  of Feed feduci  Per Cqpe f(1969-71 - 1NJ-Index of per
Urk. hpuli   (pr ee  of tal)--Ratio of urban to total          capita annual production of all food conunodities. Production
population; dilercnt definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among cmoutries. 1960.1970. and 1913 data.  '   include prinmary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead or sugar)
whpuIsM  Rwjecrk.                                               which am edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffee and tea are
Populafon is ywr 2GW-The projectin of population for 2000.      ec1uded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses. oil seeds.
made fow each economy separately. Sarting with informatian on   vcgetables, fruits. nuts. sugrcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total populatio by ag andl s,frertility rates mortality rtes, and  livestock products. Aregate production of each county is based
MatioslA  migtion in de teb    year l90, tbs    =res            on national average producer price weights; 196165. 1970. and
were projectd  at fin-year intervals on the bmis of generalized  1932 data.
assumptions until the popultion became stationary.             P&  C.$a Supply of Cdsis (prcM of repuhnwars-Comput-
Sauiouay pqpaafu-uIs one in which age- and ma-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net load supplies availabe in country
tality rates have not changed over a long peiodL while age-specific  per capita per day. Arilable supplies comprise domestic produc.
ferlity rates have simultaneously remained at teplacemt lv      tion, imports less expors. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction raze- 1). lnsch a populaon. the birth rte is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
consat and equal to the death rte, the age sutumre is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
consa t, and the gmwth rate is aro. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sin  -  estmated on the bais of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental tmperatur  body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  ag and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percCnt for
rate to replacement vdel,                                       wate at bousehold level; 1961.170 and 1932 data.
Pupuftion Moma_-Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Capia Sup*  of Proten (gm per dAfl-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacemett-level ferdtty has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achived; that is, cv after the net reproduction rte has reacbed  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The wmmnts ofa popuation in the year t is mesumred as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 pams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimae stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 pans
the year ts iven the asmption that it  remains at replac-      should be animal protin. These standards.are lower than those of
met level r   year onwad, 19  data                              75 grams of tota protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
hp.hti. Dent,                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqgkm.-Mid-yer populatin per square klometer (100 bec-     SuppI3S 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
rare) of total  e;  1960.1970. and 19B3 data.                  Pr Cyait Prien Suppy Frox Auiis and Pfse-Protein supplv
Per sqgka. ogriafalul hewd-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from aninals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only, 1960. 1970, and 1932 dta.                            1970 and 1977 data.
_paf ash Age Ssnur (permt)--Childreu (0-14 years). work-       CW    (ages lA4 Deah Rate (pe ruhasa.d)-N umber of dcaths of
ing age (I5-64 years)l and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  cbildren aged 1-4 years per thousand children i the same age
of mid-year populatil960 1970, and 1913 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pfpotpf.tiGve.eh list (pereemt)r.tui-Aanua growth rates of     frtDm life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
tota mid-er popubtion for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-33.       HEALTH
Pepdatka Geub lA  (prerr-rhon--Annual growth rates             Life Expmrmy as JUnh (yewrs)-Number of years a newborn
of rban popatin Ibr 19S-0. 160-.70, md 197I-83 data.           infant would ive if prevailing pattn b mortality fot all people



ANINEX I
-27-                                                    Page 4 of 6
at ihe time orof its birh were to stay the mne throughout its lirce  apEu'ai'dwha'r Rac, - printurr. andw 3r1Ialurl -Total students en-
1910 1970 and 1983 data.                                      roled in prirrar> end smondur% levtk divided ht numbers of
infaw MesSy Ratet (prehousaui)-Number of infants who die    leachers in ths cLrrcspfniling k-cl%.
befrre maching aon yor or age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSIIMPTION
Accs to Se Warn 4memt of pdut)--ftral  &Mi, -S                 PNsneger Cors (perr shusmad puipltf*j- Passenger cars cot-
Pol-Number of peope (total. urban, ad rural) with reasonble   prise motor cars seating less than ighli persons: excludes ambtul-
maca to mare watr supply (includes trated sarface waters or   ances. hearses and military vchicles.
untreated but uncontminated water such as that froin ptccied  Radio Ree ivrn (per t_hoafdp papulaioiu -All type. of reticr'.
borwles. sprinp and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to gencral public per thousand 'f population
tive populations. In an  rban area a public fountain or standpost  eilude  un-licened reeiver in countries and in ye.rs i4 he
lcated not more than 200 meters from a houe vay be considered  rex       or radio set% wa'. in cffect:e sa for recent veais mna%
as being within reasoble sceess of ibit house. In rural arms  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing
reasnable a.c would imply that the housewife or members of' the
houlhold do not have to spend a disproportionae part of the day  TV Receiv  (per IIUSUE p.pakmiem)-TV receivers for broadcast
r frcnbg the fars  water needs                                to enerl public per thousand popubation: exludes unlicensed TV
Access to _*al (       q,                 _t ian~            raevers in countries and in yeas when regtration of TV sets was
_a rld-Number of peopl (toal, urban. and rural) served by     i e
cxreta diposal as percogo   their respective populations.    Mwp     Cive asl (per rhuwuadpwpmlsiW-Shows the .ver-
Exerets diposl may include the colletion and disposal. with or  ae cicuclation of -daily general interest newsper." defined as a
wiout trment of bin  xcreta  d wate-water by water-           priodial publication devoted primarily to rcording general ms
borne systm or the use or pit privies and similar installations.   is considered to be -daily' if it appean at klas four times a week.
Jhgruudu pr P oysicim-Ibpulation divided by nwnber or prac-    CUsa  Anal Attndane  per Caps pr  Yr-Based on the
tising physcia  qualified rom a mediaald ool at university lvel.  number of tickets mold during the year. including admissions to
?opbiuo. pm' Nwslrg PIbno-pulataom divided by number of       drive-in cinenas ad mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, aistant nurses.   LABOR FORCE
practia num  and nuing auuiiar.                               Total Labow FAre (thuuumads-Economically active persons. in-
h4pa-Io.i per Besphdta 54-wa4d  wm. ml em'd-Npulation         ddn  re  ocsaduepoe  u  iddn  oswvs
(totaL urban, and rural) dmded by their rsptive number of     eluding armed forces and  unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital bes avaiblc n puli and private. general and  zedll                                               Dfinitions 
hospis and rabilitaon ceter  Hospitals ae establhments        varotn countries are not comparable 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
pct.nanently wfitd by at least one physician. Esblishments prv.  Femme (pwrcasr--Fanle labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial case are not included. Rural hospiutls  ore.
howeer, include health and medical centes not permanentlysfed  r m    (parcmeaw-Labor form in fanning. foresty. hunting
by a physiwn  (but by a medical assistant,nurse, miwi. etc.)  and fishing as percntage of tot labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acommdaton and provid a limited  ange  data.
Of medical facilitis.                                          udshtwy (pent i-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Ad:dhow par Ilsd $     eai -Totul number of admissions to or  facturing and electricity, water and ps as peracentage of total labor
dischargs from hospitak divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwtic*ueka Raw (percet)-taz4 sa  madfexm-4Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates ar computed as total. male. and remale labor rc
A4Wee S.   r    M ef Iathui (r-som  pw ha.sebMj-tots( wom.    as pcntages of total, mak and rfeal population of all ages
_drarIO-A household consit of a group of individuals who share  respectdvdy 1960. 1970. and 1913 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarte  and their main meals. A boardcr or lodger may or  pticipation rates relecting age-sex strucLureof the population. and
mray not be induded in the houebold for statscal purposs      long time tred. A few estimtes are from national sources
Avae Number of Panr pfr Room,-n4 wam, &W rwad-                Ecoaodd Depexdny Rlari-Ratio or population under 15. and
Averae number of psons per zoom  in &a urban. and rural       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventionl dwellings, respctively. Dwelinp exclude
o-pma    sms  d unoccupied parts.                             INCOME DISMiRUISJTON
Pernte of   enr    E              -     wim, ad _w-           Prnag or ef Td D4psabk Inm  (bro  i ash ad h)-
Conventional dwelling with electricity in living qutrs aspe-n-  Accruing to perent legroups of households ranked by total house-
age of toal, urban, and rual dwellinp respectively.           hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Awsad EAsr    Ratiosr                                       - The following eslinates are very approximate ncasures of poverty
Pibuy scdh    - gotd.        and Jta-   s totaL male          lv kels and should be interpreted with consideable caution.
femae enrollent of al ages at the prmary klvd as pecntage of  Estmed Absolse PAery hlcom  LeWf (UI peer cap) -whoa
respaive primary scoola  populons. Wbile man countres         ad  mwl-bsolute povery mcome klvd is that income level
consider pimary chool age to be 6-1I yars ods do not lhe      below which a minima nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praces in the ages and dution of school  non-food requirements is noL affordable.
- refloctd in the rtios give  For some countries with universal  ErAed Reatie peny lacedrr Leel f USSZ perm apsJ-rn
educaton, gross enrollment may exced 100 perceut since some   ad reaw-Rural relative povrty income lcvel is one-third or
pupils a  below or above the coutry standd prmary-shool       average per capit personal income of the country. Urban vdel is
age.                                                          derived frorn the rural kvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secacehy sdool - total, male adferde-Computed as above:       ling in urban areas.
secondary education rquires at kast fur yeas of approved pri-  EstiNaed Pepasn Below Absolte Pbev    cse  Level (per-
moqy ,imtrs     provides genral, vocatidonal, or tcacher tixanig  cear-.rls ad reeal- Pcnt of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupi  ualy of 12 to 17 yes of air corrcspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
-c  coues are   -     excludd.
Veass! &rrehinmr (rear of sedoaryd -Vocabtonal iasuitu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tos inlde scnical, industrial, or otber progams wbich operate        Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent
independently or as deparmen of secndary instituions.                                 June 1935



-28-
Page 5 of 6
PZ4ij1ta:  7. (l. i4114i                                                             W^q3      j gtt"Iyt i1:c3a.,
pi Fe*  capita.  253 3l2r I31                                                      .  ..............
4e!             11I4t of CP el h l rket  *run  (.                                             wVp3   uel1  lnr.me III
ladacoIw                      10: ~~~~imlaw 1INS a'        III woinr  i'arr,                                                            II, ortiet pin  Il
agln  frit f ItI           ---'-'''- ----'-- '- ----@---e-* - - --- -  o->- -- ---.  ...........     ......._  .....
II-                    lo' 1's    114l t   %       JNi IRS:  11       rZ      lite 144.              75,  19W        loop-in
11^s:*b'.w   Ii Irj                                            -      -
MhAAtS AtC'vO'T
i:s       s lmnslr    InEI                                    115.2    23.0 Ill-O.       308.0    I0!.P    Itt'    ie.t    305.0                  !         S.:    -I. 
Arnultvr, It   .                                 .          27.3               24.6     2U           1    M.   2.1  2!.7 'j                     PA        M.       C.0.
I3trotry El                                     ..          U 1.7    1.        :.'C     21.3     21.3     :..       1.       36.f               ..t      '.1      -
Swvacn  1                                       ..           4.0     Si.!     5;.2      Sl.      E.t      5.3       56.      5.S                 1. .1            0.
Cusatae                                        3M10.7         bU        05.7    81.0      P.i      r.S        ".'    u          QS                  .'  si      -7.7
kre   ImwlIts                                  1.             3.1    16.3 I      15.'    37.0        .e    30.6       11     11.t                  1.1      SU.    -12.1
limis of 6"a    td Ir                           234           17.0     23.5      20.1     23.5     3.7       33.1    31.3    21.7                 4.5       L1     -31.6
IEnepts  fl 6"d      WI                        210 .7         18.       21.7     21.t     3.B       34.4     1.       13.2 3'.I                   1.3       5.5     -7.2
tan latiaul    ti sh         '                  7011.          14.1     34       133e        30.4    *.       I.e      7.4      6.1               ..9       3.1 
PWil                                                          i        1q31      10       1'S      1'1
HF bk ni.t.  2)                                              7iL.6    74.6   2P.3        W.?    317.7 lJ          .3
Eh rep  rate                                                   1.0      1.0       1.1      1.0      1.0      1.03)
Fiart  trace 1ad4, 21                                        34.5   25.    Z1.5    25..i    2Sia.1           .
lucrE  trace tid    2. E:                                             47&.e    0.t   19.2  IS ..?    rI.i
erm  d  ITrade   d l 2nU 52.                                           54.2     51.1      51.7     55.9     4t.1
eosmtiu. if lurchamdn  Trud   III iAvd. Am il lKtree    tU1
lit corretr   Pricsi                                                let resEnt PrimP
I$7l     11!      IIwl     391       Ic       Ir        M'    I'               t1*75  19"-    IMAM
010115'                                                      ll0.0    105.0    300.0    100.0-   ins    ic.r LIK.c   3te2                         7.4      6A      -2.0
fraarv" Purt^rts 7   .e ;s1 24.0    D. 75.3                                   *5 r   ...0  7D.3  70.      67.      74.                           . 5.3 S            7
h faturud 1;                                                24.7      21.'    32.0      29.?     2".1     32.6     A,    25..                   5.2     10.1      -0.0
illhF.!5                                                     13.0      9.'   330.0    IU.3    IK.0    36.0    13.0   31.3C                        3.4      4.*     -5.0
Foc. e                                                       3.4   e A         7.4       1.6      &.1      -..D     .e       7.2              -7.2      14.2      J.1.
etrol..                                                      5.0     11.b     21.5      22..    21.9      22.      S5 '    23.1               -4.1       S.1     -3.8
hRtinrr                                                     20.1   2r..    23J.    2i.1          23.1    I1.'    15.'    Int                   0.3 *      .2    -15.9
flkw;                                                       L..      57.5      7.1     47.6    4I.5       s.'    s.;        52.'               4.1       2.1     -10
P0L.IC FIKOCI-
_ _ _                                                         240      1'.41    itt:      22        1n     1N:
Iletrul I )                                                  -                      -- ----
briet lenses                                                   94       *..       .1       7.3      7.2
brrtet Etsedirrs                                               0.'      8.5      1.1      7.9       C.]      7..
burpms 1f ea blaFit 1-1                                        I.:      *.2      5.3      -1.1    10.'       t.l
Canitl Er4ettwr M          ait Laedr                           56       7.e       18    - 3.        2.7      2.2
SMall MaCant C-1                                              - 7       -4      -        -2.7      -3.t    -2.1
Ferne Vienja                                                   1.2      1.2      0.'       1.0      0.2      0.:
___~~~~~~~~~~ ----- ----_                                                           .       _.__.__ ....    .   _... ...._ ..._._._...............   ........... .  ................_ .   _._ .  ...._.__.
STIEFS LIeIEAlI
1!A7Fh Py-ft P-16e
W         dn   *t'u                                            t.!       .0    -2.0 Y
      r     Wt M lr     lewB lirt                             :.z It           -0
Iir-t'utiEI beSetw ii? Sthall 1eC1
.0-ass IN Apt! 5mw  kIt                                        .j.      ;.1   -11.4
.Poss   -r-ir       --l  1---- k:r-l..                                 -';
1!   larIty                                                0. .1              b
_  - t -   _   -  --                _se .    ....      .......              .        ._...........       -w s                          __



ANNEX I
- 29 -aPage 6 of 6
Paiaiuc  i7i I 11!. Ii%4                               0bnP                 IIi -  * P flIn:. Elflec U  IlL  AMi XKI
Illp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, M.Al^ff_ ..........I. ...._. ..  .v .  . s    . .. .e_ e o*^
: Fe1 1' ~tui  .: NP lt-:'
U UKi 00 #A11141
6thi Ml Cer. hiPii
Etwrts of ro    ad V!                                   M? l,  14-1.A  12i. 1h.'-   InX..  .
ireir dist F.-                                       151. 1      L'L   HIM    1o-:.-   11.2   12  L
Po rert e nygr Fr                                        .'   PO31.   I1'.;.  i3r.  I:r.l  1;:.1
oIs  of 6& ad IFS                                       141H.1,20 X    laz1z.    13MO.  J401!  lJl:.t
bttch&ur Fbt                                         1516.2    ?i..   IJt.;  IO3S.D  1272.5  123W
w FPsr S riuike                                       M5.7    Li.    24.2   Ir.e    ja1s.2   IN0.
let Earts of  r    a et WfS                             -I        P. -57Qj  -=.3  -I4!.;  -1P.4   -MI
hpt rute lim                                             -55.?  IDt  1: : .? -11;.1  -2.' -I ?t.e
hi tt raIrs                                              IQkI       I.6    .7       J.'    2F.'   If.?
rm,t ,csat kline                                        -Ih..   -S9:    -3'1.'  -2::.D  -3.A  -:21.1
lnt Fetreap       stii MlPe'                             1II.7   115.'    0.*'    4            :5 C.'    a.0
2.1 I       M lll                                        12.2   2M.9   2'4.S   25SCA    JCk           O.
in4ers    tt                                           ir.'   253.'   37'.J    Sf7'   a'S    1&.15
Istiuafie                                             -1.;  -2.3  4  -C!         u.,  111.!  -iL-
1twer  eit4l                                            -',5.5  -14'.1  -D!.2   -"          -3.'    h'.0
Chos is   wssn   1-: aurrul II                          3i'.D    341.0   3.1    -31.0   18e* .9 haS
Stack df ti ltne tJotiW   rMi                           3'3.D    *h.2  -2w.0  -235.E  -C.:  -53.2
ist! beewe- a   eth  oi   r-t!                             3.1      1.1     11      2M      3s.r      L
EU7_t camM aext
[itl lb  wrt. hictil
t.' Iusbwnms!a                                           13.A    Zb.4    35    3!.-    St.'  I.It.;
*ffiia;  te                                              ..       .
Cucstmml Lom                                            9.7    43.2    3s..    42.2    ii.'    Li.!'
W?                                                   t'.7     1.1    14.2    X        14.4    71.4
tE                                                  I                 b 4     2:.. .
U'                                                   ..       ..      *        ..      s        B
ie                                                 35..e l   4D.t    2 ?.7:  :   .'   Zt.
tt-rmrueitqlas                                          1t.7   2n3.2   302. "      t .    12.    1'.'
Official eat  :rsals                                  21.     I   12.?   1i)  tP l         '    * 
lae                                                   34.' .!    i? 74 v 7                       U
ter mltjlaterni                                        *.     2e'    *          37    U   .
Estemi kMl
re!! mtsta4daq v  Ia ra1ste.                           54      rs.5   !'.4  li.!   Ir'3.   1 Ct?.C
Vttfanal                                             5,.'   Th 74  I. 1.        .
Frill!                                                i!.1    m.3    110.'  ..          ..       .
111dvrsd  rtt                                          r:.A    573.1   30.1 4* '.*     4.'ie   *E.:
1M  SIraco                                                u4.8     M.    e:.;   143..   1%.        ?i'?
bsl! S5rtice Petr:                                      15.i    =.       45.      Ka.'  11.3   15!.?
ISlers!                                               7b..    p~  t      ' neX r.2      U.s    aS.'
bie   "!s c:  f  urt                                    2).b     6.1    St.-    it.1    1.?    M.I
qW   bMertet M e u-la Lee  IV                                      1.5. .s  .4 a     ..     6.1      .
feitik                                                  7'       t_.      i5     1:2 ''     .5
Arep lhlity  e       . Lowe ve n'                                 I:..     i .      :.    l4.       .
Officil                                                 13.1    '1.1    S3.1    7;.1      :.^     1' 4
._-                                                      ...   .......... . . .. ............... .. ...
Il *t sMrt trns: Sen  at 6F Vr P   r.Sts? U     IR? Dralnt
7! 163w: lopt.
;i    p rtWil wret rmst *r. a   .1.F W  e.:. kl4i ic I5t
KrOIF tO" WA  1twig              tril  me. tatte   ar * l. Jt  C.!. 8;  ..
Jt            Ikf.  er     c newt alit t!l rorvwe.
5,; PP.-!.



-30-                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/
as of March 31, 1986
Loan or                                              Amount less
Credit    Year   Borrower        Purpose           Cancellations Undisbursed
No.                                                        (US$ millions)
Twelve loans fully disbursed.                               258.0
1846    1980   Government      Highways                   17.0         3.2
2328    1983   Government      Basic Education            18.5        14.6
2383    1984   Government      Industrial Credit          20.0        17.9
2385    1984   GUATEL          Telecommunications         30.0        29.0
1605-1  1985   INDE            Power                     44.6          8.5
TOTAL                                           388.1
of which has been repaid                       93.3
Total now outstanding                           294.8
Amount sold                  5.8
of which has been repaid 5.8
Total now held by Bank                          294.8
Total undisbursed                                             73.2
I/ Including exchange adjustments. A US$81.0 million loan for a power
project was approved by the Board on June 23, 1986.



-31-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA (continued)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of March 31, 1986
Type of
Year    Obligator                         Business     Loan  Equity  Total
(US$ millions)
1959    Industria Harinera                Flour Mill    0.2      -      0.2
Guatemalteca, S.A.
1974    Exploraciones y Explotaciones   Mining and   15.0       -      15.0
Hineras Izabal, S.A.             Processing
of Nickel
1977    Cementos Progreso, S.A.          Cement         3.0     -       3.0
Total gross commitments                   18.2     -      18.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    18.2     -     18.2
Total now held by TFC                      0.0     -      0.0
Total undisbursed



- 32 -                     Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA
EMPAGUA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification          : 02/84
(b)  Project Preparation   : 06/85
(c)  Appraisal Mission      : 02/86
(e)  Negotiations           : 07/86
(f) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:  12/86
Section II: Special Conditions
- EMPAGUA would conclude a 'twinning" arrangement with a foreign
water utility company and hire consultants for operational
improvements, training and studies for expansion of distribution
and assets revaluation by May 31, 1987. The hiring of
consultants would be a condition of disbursement for the civil
works and purchase of materials and equipment (para. 51).
- Adequate procedures for the use, control and maintenance of
vehicles purchased under the project would be put into place by
September 30, 1987 and would be a condition of disbursement for
vehicle purchase (para. 52).
- EMPAGUA would carry out overall and yearly action plans for
improvement of individual managerial systems, including the
achievement of the key performance targets specified in Annex IV
(paras. 52 and 64).
- EMPAGUA would submit to the Bank by November 30, 1988 its plan
for modifying the system of water titles and structure of
tariffs. A plan satisfactory to the Bank would be implemmeunted
by January 30, 1989 (para. 64).
- EMPAGUA would (i) maintain tariffs and other charges sufficient
to cover operational expenses, working capital needs, debt
service payments and contributions to capital expenditures
starting in 1987, increasing gradually to not less than 25
percent of three year average capital expenditures for 1991 and
thereafter; and (ii) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.2 in
1987 and thereafter (para. 64).



_ 33 -                        Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Section II: Special Conditions (continued)
- EMPAGUA would review the size and composition of its investment
program with the Bank each year (para. 64).
- EMPAGUA would report to the Bank by September 30 of each year
on its financial plans including the achievement of key financial
performance targets (para. 65).
Section III: Special Condition of Effectiveness
- Execution of an agreement Eor the settlement of the areara of
EMPAGUA (para. 64).



- 34 -                             Annex IV
Key Performance Targets 1/
1986   1987   198B   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Number of       13.9   13.1   12.5   11.9   11.0   10.5    9.9    9.4    9.4
Employees/
1000 Connec-
tions 2/
% Connec-        65      67      72      76     81      86      90     93      95
tions with
Working
Meters
Working           1.20   1.00   0.85   0.75   0.70   0.70   0.70   0.65  0.65
Ratio
(end of
year) 3/
Operating        155    155    155    150    150    145    145    135    130
Cost/Connec-
tion
(in 1986
Quetzales) 4/
Accounts         7.0    7.0    6.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    3.6    3.0    3.0
Receivable/
Average
Monthly Sales
Subject to revision through agreement between the Bank and FMPAGUA.
2/ Including temporary employees.
3/ All expenses (excluding depreciation) divided by operating reventuae.
4/ All expenses (excluding depreciation) divided by number of
connections.



IBRD 19704
GUATEMALA
EMPAGUA REHABILITATION PROJECT
GUATEMALA CITY
EXISTING WATER SYSTEM
AND                         .00-
AREA OF FUTURE EXPANSION               -00
OF  CHINAUTLA      *--*/1
MU O    MNICIPAUTY C
STO AGE TANKS                  Oja DeoguSANA   CATARIN
-   APPtOXtMTE BONDARrOF FUURE SRVICEAREAMFUEMPGUAAL St^RNI^AU
---ilUNlOPAt BOUNDARIES                          I   2   3                             ._
--- WATER DISTIBUATION SYSEM                      C;OMTEPAUr;TY7   >    COSTA
i                                                                           zA MIXCO            BS - .tSDEPWLSBIZ
I  - -MMUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                                 t9B6
INTERNA71ONAL BOUNDARIES~~TARIN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE18






