Page  1
                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2759 GU
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 26, 1988
                                    LOAN NUMBER  2759  GU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Municipalidad de Guatemala
("Municipalidad"), acting through EMPAGUA (as defined hereinafter) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the Municipalidad the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Municipalidad;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
Municipalidad of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement, together with
all schedules thereto, to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Municipalidad pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   "Municipal Council Agreement" means the convenio signed between
the Municipalidad and the Borrower on May 21, 1971, approved by the
Executive of the Borrower by means of an Acuerdo Gubernativo, dated June 1,
1971, published in El Guatemalteco of the same date;
      (d)   "EMPAGUA" means Empresa Municipal de Agua de Guatemala,
established pursuant to the Municipal Council Agreement;
      (e)   "Key Performance Targets" means the annual performance targets
specified in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, as such schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Municipalidad;
      (f)   "Quetzales" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (g)   "EEG" means Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.; and
      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be extended by the Borrower
to the Municipalidad pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty three million dollars ($23,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended f rom time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
      (b)   on each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to
pay, on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and
payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one half percent per annum above the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Municipalidad, acting through EMPAGUA, is designated
as a representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement: (i)  undertakes that the
Municipalidad, acting through EMPAGUA, shall perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Municipalidad
therein set forth with respect of the Project; and (ii) shall take or cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Municipalidad, acting through EMPAGUA, to perform such obligations and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance;
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the
Municipalidad under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Municipalidad, for the purpose of having the
Municipalidad carry out the Project and under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, which terms and conditions shall
provide, inter alia: (i) an amortization schedule coinciding with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Loan Agreement; (ii)
that the Subsidiary Loan be denominated, disbursed and repaid in Quetzales;
and (iii) a mechanism whereby the Municipalidad shall be required to repay
the Subsidiary Loan and to pay interest and other charges to the Borrower
in amounts sufficient to enable the Borrower to repay that portion of the
Loan corresponding to the Subsidiary Loan, together with interest and other
charges, at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of payment.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not. assign, amend, abrogate or
Page  4
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions. of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by the Municipalidad, acting through
EMPAGUA, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                              Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be
required to assist EMPAGUA: (i) to achieve the Key Performance Targets, and
any other financial, operational and Project performance targets contained
in the action plans to be prepared pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement; (ii) to adjust the structure of its tariffs and other charges as
referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement; (iii) to take any
action which may be required to be taken in order to enable EMPAGUA to
satisfy the financial covenants contained in Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the
Project Agreement; and (iv) to take any other action required to discharge
any obligation under the Project Agreement.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
October 31, 1988 a payment plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to pay to EEG,
all the outstanding debt owing by EMPAGUA to EEG up to June 30, 1988.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Municipalidad shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   The Municipal Council Agreement shall have been amended or
modified in a manner which shall materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Municipalidad to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EMPAGUA or
for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and the Municipalidad; and
Page  5
      (b)   that EMPAGUA shall have furnished to the Bank the payment plan
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Municipalidad, and is legally binding upon the Municipalidad in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Municipalidad and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and the Municipalidad in accordance with its terms;
      (c)   that the Municipal Council Agreement has not been       modified
or amended and remains in force; and
      (d)   that EMPAGUA is fully empowered to take the actions   described
in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and that no prior approval,
clearance or other acknowledgement from any office, department or agency of
the Municipalidad is required.
      Section 6.03. The date of November 29, 1988 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
     Ministerio de Finanzas
     8a Avenida, Calle 21-Zona 1
     Guatemala
     Guatemala
     Cable address:                       Telex:
          MINFIP                                9207
          Guatemala                             MINFIP GU
For the Bank:
     International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
     1818 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America
     Cable  address:                      Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Page  6
                        By /s/ Oscar Padilla Vidaure
                                  Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                              Acting Regional Vice President
                              Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE I
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated         % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Consultant's             2,150,000      100%
    services under
    Part A of the
    Project and
    Training under
    Part A (5) of
    the Project
(2) Equipment,               4,366,000      100% of foreign
    vehicles,                               expenditures;
    pipes, and                              100% (ex-factory
    spare parts                             costs) for
    under Parts B                           locally manu-
    and D of the                            factured goods
    Project, ex-                            internationally
    cluding                                 procured; 30% of
    Part B (1)                              local expendi-
                                            tures for
                                            imported goods
                                            locally procured
(3) Computer                   600,000      100% of foreign
    equipment                               expenditures
    and accces-
    sories
(4) Goods for                  918,000      100% of foreign
    Part B (1) of                           expenditures
    the Project
(5) Goods for                6,516,000      100% of foreign
    Part C of                               expenditures
    the Project
(6) Civil works                 62,000      30%
    for Part B (1)
    of the Project
(7) Civil  works                14,000      30%
Page  7
    for Part C
    of the Project
(8) Civil works                674,000      30%
    for Parts B (2),
    B (4), B (5) and
    B (6) of the
    Project
(9) Interest and             2,620,000      Amounts due
    other charges
    on the Loan
    until May 14,
    1992
(10)Unallocatted             1,660,000
    for physical
    contingencies
(11)Unallocated for          2,620,000
    price contin-
    gencies
    TOTAL                   23,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made up to an aggregate of
$500,000 for expenditures made after June 30, 1986 and prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   Categories (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) untilthe Bank
shall have received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the contracts
referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project      Agreement have been entered
into, except that withdrawals in respect of expenditures incurred prior to
the date of this Agreement, pursuant to the immediately preceding clause
(a), may be made before the Bank's receipt of such evidence;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures for vehicles until the Bank shall
have received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that EMPAGUA has implemented
the procedures referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement; and
      (d)   payments made for Part C of the Project, until the Bank shall
have received, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the relevant
feasibility studies and designs to be prepared under Part A.3 of the
Project.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to strengthen EMPAGUA's capabilities
to provide good service without recourse to operating subsidies.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:     Consultancy Services, Studies and Training
1.    Strengthening EMPAGUA's managerial and operational capabilities
through the introduction of new management systems and procedures in the
following areas: (a) organization and management, including organizational
functions, planning and internal communications and controls; (b) plant
facilities' operation and maintenance systems at pumping stations, treatment
plants, deep wells and related equipment; (c) water distribution and
collection facilities; (d) metering and its repair and maintenance; (e)
finance and accounting, including tariff structure, control procedures and
cost systems; (f) personnel management; (g) commercial practices, including
meter reading, billing and collections; and (h) user relations.
2.    Preparation of feasibility studies and designs, for expanding the
distribution systems and transferring systems operated by other entities to
EMPAGUA.
3.    Assessment of water resources for the greater metropolitan area,
including the groundwater potential and recharge system at the valley of
Guatemala and at the Xaya-Pixcaya area, and simultaneous preparation of
priority studies and designs for increasing water production.
4.    Development and implementation of guidelines for periodic inventory
and revaluation of assets.
5.    Development and implementation of a training program for managers and
staff through on-the-job training, local classroom training and overseas
visits and training.
Part B:     Water Supply System Operational Improvements
1.    Rehabilitation of approximately 35 deep wells, including changing of
pump impellers and installation of flow control valves.
2.    Rehabilitation works and quality improvements at water pump stations.
3.    Acquisition and utilization of approximately 35 vehicles equipped for
operational, maintenance and metering activities.
4.    Installation of approximately 140 kilometers of small mains and
pipelines connecting new wells and replacement of approximately 10,000 house
connections.
5.    Acquisition and installation of approximately 40,000 domestic water
meters, 30 master meters and meter spare parts.
6.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment and operating tools for
operating, controlling and administering water supply works, including
pitometry and flow measurements, cadaster of pipe networks, cadaster of
water users, leak detection and control, network rehabilitation,
radio-communications, meter shop expansion, computer service expansion and
improvement, and customer service.
Part C:     Water Supply System Expansion
      Construction of additional capacity in the Jocotenango area for
incremental production of 0.6 cubic meters of water per second.
Part D:     Imported Inputs
     Acquisition and utilization of spare parts for vehicles, pumps and
other equipment.
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
Page  9
On each May 15 and November 15
      beginning May 15, 1992
      through November 15, 2001                  1,150,000
_______________________________________
      * The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      The  following  premiums  are  specified  for  the   purposes  of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                      The interest rate (ex-
                                      pressed as a percentage
                                      per  annum) applicable to
                                      the balance outstanding
                                      on the Loan on the day
                                      of prepayment multiplied
                                      by:
Not more than three years                          .20
      before maturity
More than three years but                          .40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                            .73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         .87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                         1.00
      maturity
