                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 25645

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-27791)

                                           ON A

                                     TRUST FUND GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.5 MILLION

                              TO UNMIK FOR THE BENEFIT OF


       KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO)




                                          FOR AN

                   ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                        June 11, 2003




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                           Currency Unit = Euro
                               Euro 1.00 = US$ 0.988
                               US$ 1.00 = Euro 1.012

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EU       European Union
KEK      The Power Company of Kosovo
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QCBS     Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SCADA    System Control and Data Acquisition
TA       Technical Assistance
TORs     Terms of Reference
UNMIK    United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo




                         Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
                      Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                       Sector Manager:       Henk Busz
                     Task Team Leader:       Iftikhar Khalil

                                           KOSOVO
                ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            19
Annex 8. Borrower Comments                                                       20

Project ID: P070046                                                      Project Name: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL
                                                                         ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Iftikhar Khalil                                             TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 11, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-27791
                            ASSISTANCE PROJECT
   Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General energy sector (100%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/05/2000                                        Effective:                         04/25/2001
   Appraisal:    02/01/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    04/25/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UN INTERIM ADMIN. MISSION IN KOSOVO/PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                           DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                              Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Henk Busz                                           Henk Busz
Team Leader at ICR:        Iftikhar Khalil                                     Iftikhar Khalil
ICR Primary Author(s): Iftikhar Khalil; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objective of the US$2.5 million project was to assist Kosovo in the development of
satisfactory long-term plans for the economically efficient reconstruction, rehabilitation and restructuring
of the power, lignite, district heating and petroleum sectors and the development of a natural gas sector.

The objective was clearly stated, important to the country's economic development, and realistic in scale
and scope. It was also responsive to the needs of the Borrower, especially considering that the electricity,
lignite and district heating sectors had suffered from conflict damage, loss of mobile equipment, and from
lack of maintenance and poor management dating back to before the conflict of 1998-99. Whereas other
donor assistance consisted of mostly physical investments, the project took a broader view over a longer
timeframe in order to provide a basis for decision making aimed at sustainable development of the sector.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99-178) which was
endorsed by the Executive Directors on October 7, 1999, and the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo
Progress Report (R2000-130) which was endorsed by the Executive Directors on July 25, 2000. The
overall objective of the Strategy was to support sustainability of the reconstruction and recovery program,
and the Bank aimed to maximize the impact of the limited resources it could make available for Kosovo by
using its comparative advantage in policy advice, institution building and aid coordination. In line with this
approach, the Strategy affirmed that the Bank should assist in developing a long-term strategy for the
energy sector. The project provided technical assistance for a comprehensive energy sector study that
would prepare the main elements of such a long-term energy strategy.

In view of the Bank's extensive experience in supervising and monitoring similar studies and technical
assistance in other transition countries and in post-conflict situations, including in the Balkans, the project
was expected to benefit from the Bank's inputs during preparation and finalization of the terms of reference
(TOR), selection of the Consultants, and in carrying out of the study. The Bank's involvement in the
project was also expected to help attract well-qualified firms as bidders and ensure that they prepared
sound proposals.

The project design was consistent with the objectives, and the activities and their projected execution were
clearly defined. It envisioned that the benefits of the energy sector study financed by the project would
consist of valuable information including identification of: (i) the likely least-cost feasible future investment
programs in the power, coal, district heating, gas and petroleum sectors; (ii) an electricity tariff structure
that would satisfy the financial requirements of the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK) while at the same
time taking into account economic costs of supply and social considerations; (iii) measures to improve
efficiency in the internal operations of the energy sector public utilities; and (iv) sector reform programs
and time schedules for each of the power, lignite, district heating, gas and petroleum sectors. The
immediate beneficiaries of the study were expected to be the energy sector public utilities and the Public
Utilities Department. The ultimate beneficiaries of implementation of the results of the technical assistance
were expected to be the consumers of electricity, lignite, district heating, natural gas and petroleum
products. Their expected benefits consisted of more reliable energy supplies at lower costs.

The project took into account lessons learned from other Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical
assistance in other countries and reflected these in the project design. These included:

-        The need for careful and realistic planning of the technical assistance and close monitoring of the



                                                      - 2 -

        Consultants in order to ensure that the output is of the requisite quality and the tasks are completed
        on schedule. Accordingly, the Bank worked closely with the Public Utilities Department in drafting
        clear and comprehensive TORs; in proposing realistic schedules; in monitoring project
        implementation; and in reviewing draft reports.

-       Ensuring that the technical assistance took full account of conditions in Kosovo, and that the
        results and recommendations were acceptable to the Grantee and beneficiaries. This was addressed
        by having: (i) the Consultants carry out their entire work in Kosovo; (ii) representatives of KEK
        and the district heating companies actively involved in all aspects of the Study; (iii) hands-on
        training provided by the Consultants to local counterparts on analytical work and on the relevant
        software packages being used in various modules of the Study; and (iii) software packages handed
        over to the local counterparts at the end of the Study.

The project recognized and took into account the following three risk factors which could affect project
implementation, viz:

-       Failure to complete the study. Measures to mitigate this risk included: an adequate budget; clear
        and comprehensive TORs; Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure; adequate
        supervision; and commitment to the Study on the part of the United Nations Interim Administration
        Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), KEK and the district heating companies.

-       Delay in start of the study and cost overrun. In order to minimize these risks, efforts were to be
        made to ensure that bids were received and evaluation started before approval of the Grant.

-       Delay in completion of the study. This risk was to be reduced by choosing a realistic time
        schedule.

The project implementation was demanding for both the Borrower and the Bank, because the studies
entailed a comprehensive assessment of the entire energy sector, which was an ambitious undertaking,
particularly given the lack of available data and counterpart staff constraints. Furthermore, there was a
significant interdependence between the analytical work being undertaken for different modules. This
required an iterative approach and a tremendous amount of work in periodically reviewing the draft reports
prepared by the Consultants for each of the 13 modules, and in ensuring consistencies in assumptions and
projections.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of a single technical assistance component to prepare an energy sector study. The
study consisted of 13 modules with the following scope:

A.      Carry out a household energy survey and affordability study, evaluate the feasibility and cost of
        using alternative forms of energy for cooking and space heating and other uses, and make
        projections of electricity demand for the period from 2002-2015.

B.      Determine the production capability and remaining lifetimes of the existing power generating



                                                     - 3 -

    facilities (Sub-module B1); identify options for future power generating capacity and provide data
    on their technical characteristics and costs (Sub-module B2); and determine a least-cost power
    generation investment program for the period 2002 to 2015 to meet the projected demand
    (Sub-module B3).

C.  Prepare alternative programs for rehabilitation and expansion of the power transmission system
    and analyze these together with the least-cost and selected other power generation options
    considered in the least-cost power generation investment module in order to determine a least-cost
    expansion plan based on the most economic combination of generation and transmission systems;
    for the recommended transmission program provide lists of components, equipment and materials
    along with their estimated costs.

D.  Analyze the technical losses in power transmission and distribution, and propose immediate and
    long-term measures and realistic loss reduction targets for the period 2002-2015, including
    associated costs.

E.  Evaluate the feasibility of a new System Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system and
    associated telecommunications facilities for power system dispatching in Kosovo, with phased
    implementation if appropriate; for the recommended program, provide lists of components,
    equipment and materials along with their estimated costs.

F.  Determine, by order of priority, further investment requirements in distribution capacity for the
    period 2002-2015; for the recommended distribution program, provide lists of components,
    equipment and materials along with their estimated costs.

G.  Propose a lignite mine development strategy for the period up to 2015 for supply to existing
    thermal power stations, possible new thermal power stations identified in Module B and other
    users, and estimate future production costs.

H.  Evaluate the current state of the district heating facilities and equipment in the district heating
    systems of Pristina, Gjakova, and Mitrovica; compare the competitiveness of district heating with
    other heating options; investigate options for improving efficiency and changing fuels (including
    the option of reducing conventional fuel demands through incineration of municipal waste); and
    evaluate options for further rehabilitation of network and boiler stations, including the related costs
    and benefits; the transformation of the heat-only boiler stations in Pristina to peak-load stations in
    the case of introducing co-generation as part of the least-cost power expansion plan should be part
    of the investigation.

I.  Investigate the technical and economic feasibility of importing natural gas to Kosovo, estimating
    the demand for this gas and identifying the required infrastructure in pipeline and gas distribution
    facilities; provide estimates of the costs of this infrastructure as well as of the delivered cost of gas
    to consumers; and make recommendations on the most suitable structure for the gas sector within
    Kosovo.

J.  Estimate the future demand for petroleum products; investigate ways to encourage the emergence
    of a privately owned petroleum industry in Kosovo that would operate with sufficient competition
    to avoid the need for price controls by the Kosovo administrative authorities; and make
    recommendations on the establishment of a regulatory framework that would ensure that all
    petroleum products sold in Kosovo meet prescribed quality standards and that would minimize tax


                                                  - 4 -

        evasion by oil importers and other petroleum companies.

K.      On the basis of the above modules, prepare detailed recommended investment plans for the power,
        lignite, district heating, natural gas and petroleum sectors, and identify options for financing the
        investments.

L.      On the basis of the least-cost generation and transmission expansion program, and the programs
        for dispatching and distribution, estimate the economic costs of electricity and determine an
        electricity tariff structure for Kosovo that takes account of these costs and of social considerations
        while providing enough revenue to ensure a satisfactory financial performance of KEK, and
        recommend a transition strategy for moving to the new tariff structure.

M.      Examine the internal organizational structure and operations of each of the energy companies,
        make recommendations to improve efficiency; and make recommendations on the evolution of the
        sector towards greater company autonomy, corporatization, commercialization, competition and
        privatization, where feasible.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review for the quality at entry; however, an internal review
carried out within the Energy Sector Unit rated it as satisfactory. The ICR also deems the quality at entry
to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived. As mentioned in the earlier section, the project
objective was consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo, and met the critical needs of
the country's energy sector. Since UNMIK had the administrative capacity, the quality of project design
was adequate to meet the project's overriding objective. During preparation of the project, major risk
factors and lessons learned from the Bank's other technical assistances were considered and incorporated
into the project design. The project design envisioned extensive participation of key stakeholders, such as
the Public Utilities Department, KEK and the district heating companies of Pristina, Gjakova and
Mitrovica, in all phases of project implementation. A household survey was also carried out to identify
patterns of consumption, and to address the issue of affordability of energy.

During project preparation, an alternative project design was considered, which consisted of using the $2.5
million grant for physical rehabilitation. This option was rejected, since the available financing was too
small relative to the total requirements to have a significant impact.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The outcome of the project objective was satisfactory. The Energy Sector Study financed
under the project resulted in the following major conclusions and recommendations:

-       With rehabilitation of the existing A3, A4 and A5 units at the Kosovo A Thermal Power Station,
        additions to domestic generation capacity can be postponed to 2013 under the medium demand
        growth scenario (which assumes reasonable success in reducing non-technical losses and



                                                      - 5 -

   improving collections) if an appropriate scheme of electricity exchanges can be established with
   neighboring systems. Such exchanges (export during non-peak hours and import during peak
   hours) take place even now but on a limited scale. The existing transmission links with Serbia
   would permit enhanced exchanges but there are questions regarding the sustained availability of
   adequate surplus peak energy in the Serbian system. The existing 220 kV link with Albania would
   not be adequate but a new 400 kV transmission interconnection with Albania would provide an
   alternative source for such enhanced exchanges. Given the obvious mutual benefits of coordinating
   operation between the predominantly hydropower-based Albanian system and the predominantly
   thermal-based Kosovo system, the Consultants recommend that a detailed feasibility study of this
   new interconnection should be undertaken. The proposed 400 kV line would strengthen the regional
   interconnections and greatly enhance Kosovo's options and therefore its bargaining position in
   reaching beneficial exchange arrangements.

-  Import of gas into Kosovo is currently not economical (EIRR of 7%). This should be reviewed
   periodically.

-  For district heating, the study recommended particular investments for reconstructing and even
   expanding the district heating systems of Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica. It also made
   recommendations on the form of energy that should be used for district heating in each of the cities.

-  Regarding lignite, the study proposed a plan to ensure sufficient lignite production to meet the
   requirements of power stations as determined in the least-cost power generation plan. It
   recommended a restructuring of the lignite mines involving gradual but substantial reduction of
   coal mining staff.

-  In the case of petroleum, the study made a number of recommendations to improve regulation of
   products used in the sector, as well as for expanding oil storage and to allow petroleum products
   to compete in the household heating sector.

-  Environmental issues have been considered for all modules, and appropriate measures have been
   recommended to ensure that applicable European Union (EU) guidelines are met.

-  Electricity tariffs do not require substantial increases, with reduction in electricity losses and
   improvement in collections providing a significant improvement in KEK's financial performance. A
   lifeline tariff has been proposed.

-  Recommendations regarding the future structure of the energy sector, establishment of a regulatory
   framework and eventual privatization have been made and the first two are consistent with EU
   guidelines. Given the uncertainties regarding Kosovo's future legal status and the general climate
   for private investment, it has also been recommended that available options should be re-examined
   at different stages of the reform process.

-  There were also specific recommendations on investments to improve: electricity transmission,
   distribution and dispatch; and to reduce technical electricity losses.

-  The energy sector investments for the period from 2002 to 2015 are estimated to be in the order of
   US$ 850 million. This does not include approximately US$ 36 million for enhanced petroleum
   stocks required to meet EU guidelines as these are expected to be financed by the oil companies.
   For the period up to 2005, the investments are currently estimated at about US$ 365 million, of


                                               - 6 -

         which US$ 39 million are for rehabilitation of Units A3 and A5 of the Kosovo A Thermal Power
         Plant, US$ 27 million for power transmission network, US$ 14 million for the SCADA system,
         US$ 177 million for the power distribution network, US$ 73 million for the lignite mines, US$ 23
         million for district heating, and US$ 12 million for storage capacity and railway rolling stock for
         the petroleum subsector.

Given the complex difficulties currently being experienced by the energy sector in Kosovo, the Study will
provide an invaluable basis for future decision making related to a wide range of critical issues including
measures to improve sector performance, prioritization of investment needs within and across the different
sub-sectors, establishing appropriate legislative and regulatory frameworks, and strengthening institutional
capacity. The recommendations of the study have been incorporated in a draft energy sector strategy
prepared by UNMIK. The draft strategy has been sent to the Bank, and distributed within the Government
and UNMIK for comments.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The energy sector study was completed before the project closing.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project contributed to substantial institutional development.    Since the Consultants were required to
carry out the entire study in Kosovo, with local participation for each module, there was significant
enhancement in the local professional capacity. The project also resulted in the creation of basic data
regarding the sector, which had been lost during the conflict. In addition, the handing over to the Public
Utilities Department and KEK of software packages used in the study is expected to result in the impact of
the project continuing for a longer period of time. Also, the Consultants providing training to the local staff
in the use of these packages and associating university students with the Consultants during the studies
have also contributed to the strengthening the local capacity.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A major handicap faced by the Consultants was that most of the energy sector data for Kosovo was lost
during the conflict. One of the accomplishments of the study was to retrieve and reassemble the historical
data, and present them in an efficient and useful manner.

The Consultants were able to overcome the lack of adequate regional data and develop an appropriate
approach for analyzing the impact of regional exchanges to develop the least-cost power generation
investment program.




                                                     - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Not applicable.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost of US$2.5 million was financed under a trust fund grant.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely, mainly for the following two reasons:

-        As required under a project covenant, the Borrower is preparing an energy sector strategy based on
         the recommendations of the study; and

-        the follow-on Second Technical Assistance (TA) Project, which is expected to be approved in
         FY03 will assist in the implementation of some of the recommendations, such as: (i) the feasibility
         of a 400 KV transmission line between Kosovo and Albania; (ii) developing appropriate terms of
         trade for power exchanges with neighboring countries; (iii) the feasibility of a national dispatch
         center; and (iv) developing recommendations for a framework to attract private sector investment
         in the energy sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
energy sector of Kosovo. The project design ensured its consistency with the Borrower's development
priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy. With a harmonious team having the requisite skill
mix, the Bank was able to provide valuable input into project design.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently harmonious relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
Extensive stakeholder consultations during preparation were highly productive, and initiated a process of
ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.


                                                       - 8 -

7.2 Supervision:

Highly Satisfactory.      The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was highly
satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was appropriately
supervised and closely monitored. The Bank's relationship with the Borrower, KEK and the Consultants
was very cordial and productive. Review teams included a power engineer, an energy economist, a coal
specialist and a district heat specialist.

Back-to-Office Reports were regularly prepared and transmitted.          The PSRs realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objective and project
implementation. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality
of advice and the follow-up on agreed actions were of a high standard.

The staff worked closely with the Borrower and KEK, and provided them with extensive assistance,
especially on reviewing and commenting on modules, and ensuring that the comments were reflected in the
revisions. The Bank participated in a workshop on September 12, 2002 in which the results of the Energy
Sector Study were presented to over 100 participants representing the Government, UNMIK, Donors,
NGOs, KEK and other organizations.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objective of the project and adequately covered all major
aspects, including stakeholder commitment. The staff of UNMIK worked closely with the Bank's project
team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and commitment.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Since the Interim Government was created subsequently, this section is not applicable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of UNMIK, which was the grant recipient as well as the implementing
agency, was satisfactory. It provided proactive follow-up to mitigate implementation bottlenecks. It was
very well organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement and in maintaining proper
records of the project. It was also receptive to the Bank's advice, and highly collaborative in efforts to
maintain the quality of the study output and to achieve demanding deadlines.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.




                                                    - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned


The project's successful outcome can be attributed to the following facts:

-       The TORs were comprehensive and clear.

-       The Consultants carried out all their work in Kosovo.

-       The Consultants fielded a competent team and they were assisted by effective local participation.

-       Detailed and multiple reviews were carried out by professional staff having the requisite expertise
        on behalf of the Bank, UNMIK, KEK and the district heating companies, and this greatly
        contributed to the quality of the output.

-       The timeframe for the study was realistic given the comprehensive nature of the study and the
        iterative approach required; sufficient time was available for regular exchange of views and
        multiple reviews.

-       The Consultants provided on-the-job training and transferred relevant software packages.

-       The results of the Study were presented to a wide audience and feedback received was incorporated
        into the Final Report.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The World Bank intervention by means of this TA project came at the appropriate time and in the proper
direction. UNMIK indeed lacked a strategic development orientation in the energy sector in 2001, when
ESTAP was kicked-off. UNMIK/PUD and the donor community were searching for the direction, after
they had spent substantial funds for the emergency rehabilitation works.

TORs were prepared in cooperation between the Bank, the Borrower (UNMIK) and the eventual
beneficiaries (energy companies), and they were broadly discussed and agreed upon among the parties. The
Bank appreciated the UNMIK's comments.

The procurement process went smoothly and without delays. No objections by the Bank were received in
time and the Bank respected the decisions of the evaluation committees of UNMIK. The final contract
negotiations with consultants were carried out by UNMIK/PUD Energy Sector supported by the Central
Procurement Entity of UNMIK.

The Consultant was recruited in time and operated in accordance with the defined rules from the very
beginning. There were no major deviations from the original implementation plan. The Borrower
established a Steering Committee with participation of all key energy companies (Beneficiaries), EAR and
Faculty of Electrical Engineering. All emerging problems, as well as progress in general, were safeguarded
by the Committee. In addition, the Borrower (UNMIK/PUD Energy Sector) held regular weekly progress



                                                   - 10 -

meetings with the Consultant. It can be concluded that the Consultant promptly responded and in a very
committed manner, to all requests of the representatives of the Borrower. Minutes were drafted for each
Steering Committee meeting, and an Action Plan was updated.

The Bank's representatives made great efforts to actively cooperate with the Borrower, in order to timely
raise any critical issue and thus safeguard the progress and the direction of the works. This cooperation,
particularly in reviewing the reports and the inclusion of comments into the final version of the reports, can
be assessed as excellent.

Therefore, the Borrower can conclude only that the ESTAP-I was a very successful project, in final
satisfaction of all parties.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


The following persons participated in the preparartion of this ICR:

         Iftikhar Khalil (Task Team Leader),
         Sati Achath (Consultant),
         Richard Hamilton (Consultant), and
         Yolanda Gedse (Team Assistant).




                                                    - 11 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
             Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate


Acceptance of the final report of the energy  Accepted.                         Accepted.
sector study.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
             Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate


Acceptance of the inception, interim and finalAccepted.                         Accepted.
reports.




1End of project




                                                             - 12 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Acceptance of the inception, interim and final reports                   2.50                 2.50                  100


Total Baseline Cost                                                      2.50                 2.50
                            Total Project Costs                          2.50                 2.50
                    Total Financing Required                             2.50                 2.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                             0.00               2.50               0.00             0.00              2.50
                                       (0.00)             (2.50)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (2.50)
   Total                                0.00               2.50               0.00             0.00              2.50
                                       (0.00)             (2.50)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (2.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                             0.00               2.50              0.00                               2.50
                                       (0.00)             (2.50)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.50)
   Total                                0.00               2.50              0.00             0.00              2.50
                                       (0.00)             (2.50)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.50)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 13 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
      Component            Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                        Bank       Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Energy sector study     2.50                           2.50                        100.0




                                               - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 15 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/2000                   2     1 Energy Specialist, 1 Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               2/2001                    4     1 Energy Specialist, 1 Power          S               S
                                               Engineer, 1 Operations, 1
                                               Financial Analyst

 Supervision
               6/01                       1    1 Energy Specialist                   S               S
               1/02                       1    1 Energy Specialist                   S               S
               7/02                       1    1 Energy Specialist                   S               S
               10/02                      2    1 Energy Specialist, 1 Financial      S               S
                                               Analyst

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20.3                             60.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    33.5                             99.8
  Supervision                              42.7                            126.6
  ICR                                        9.0                            27.5
  Total                                   105.5                            314.8




                                               - 16 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Implementation Plan, consisting of: (i) the Request for Proposals for carrying out for the
     technical assistance and (ii) the contract with the selected consultants (after signature).

2.   Bank Staff Assessments: European Commission and the World Bank, "Towards Stability and
     Prosperity, A Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo," November 3, 1999.

3.   Project Appraisal Document for Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project, dated April 23, 2001
                  (Report no: 21517-KOS).

4.   Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;

5.   Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;

6.   Draft Regulation No. 2000/XX (28.07.00), "On the Establishment of the Administrative
     Department of Public Utilities."

7.   Public Utilities Department, Pristina, Kosovo, "Policy Position Paper on the Public Utilities Sector,
     Goals and Objectives and Related Functions and Programmes, July 2000."

8.   Borrower's Comments dated May 26, 2003.




                                                 - 19 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Comments

Following your request dated 16 April 2003, please find our comments/evaluation on the WB-supported
ESTAP-1 technical assistance project in the following:

(1) Project Data: OK, no comments

(2) Principal Performance Ratings: OK, no further comments.

(3) Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry: We agree with the
given observations.

(4) Achievement of Objective and Outputs: We agree that the objectives were reached.

(5) Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome: We understand and agree that the present
lack of consolidated and verified energy sector data is a serious constraint for the application of any sound
planning methodology. We trust the situation will be improved by the planned intervention in the area of
energy accounting and statistics in 2003 ­ a TA project supported by Canada.

(6) Sustainability: OK, no further comment.

(7) Bank and Borrower Performance: OK, the assessments of both sides are correct and appreciated.

(8) Lessons Learned: We agree with the assessment.

(9) Partner Comments:

(a)     Borrower/implementing agency:

The WB intervention by means of this TA project came at the appropriate time and in the proper direction.
UNMIK indeed lacked a strategic development orientation in the energy sector in 2001, when ESTAP was
kicked-off. UNMIK/PUD and the donor community were searching for the direction, after they had spent
substantial funds for the emergency rehabilitation works.

TORs were prepared in cooperation between the Bank, the Borrower (UNMIK) and the eventual
beneficiaries (energy companies), and they were broadly discussed and agreed upon among the parties. The
Bank appreciated the UNMIK's comments.

The procurement process went smoothly and without delays. No objections by the Bank were received in
time and the Bank respected the decisions of the evaluation committees of UNMIK. The final contract
negotiations with consultants were carried out by UNMIK/PUD Energy Sector supported by the Central
Procurement Entity of UNMIK.

The Consultant was recruited in time and operated in accordance with the defined rules from the very
beginning. There were no major deviations from the original implementation plan. The Borrower
established a Steering Committee with participation of all key energy companies (Beneficiaries), EAR and
Faculty of Electrical Engineering. All emerging problems, as well as progress in general, were safeguarded
by the Committee. In addition, the Borrower (UNMIK/PUD Energy Sector) held regular weekly progress



                                                   - 20 -

meetings with the Consultant. It can be concluded that the Consultant promptly responded and in a very
committed manner, to all requests of the representatives of the Borrower. Minutes were drafted for each
Steering Committee meeting, and an Action Plan was updated.

The Bank's representatives made great efforts to actively cooperate with the Borrower, in order to timely
raise any critical issue and thus safeguard the progress and the direction of the works. This cooperation,
particularly in reviewing the reports and the inclusion of comments into the final version of the reports, can
be assessed as excellent.

Therefore, the Borrower can conclude only that the ESTAP-I was a very successful project, in final
satisfaction of all parties.

(10) Additional Information: No comment.




                                                    - 21 -

- 22 -

