Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21517-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.5 MILLION
TO UNMIK FOR THE BENEFIT OF
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO)
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 23, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 4, 2000)
Currency Unit = Deutche Mark
DEM 1 = US$0.453
US$1.00 = DEM 2.206
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMZ                  Bundesministeriun fur wirtschaftliche
Zusammenarbeit
CPE                  Central Procurement Entity
CFA           :      Central Fiscal Authority
EA            .      Environmental Assessment
EAR                  European Agency for Reconstruction
EC            :      European Commission
EMP           :      Environmental Management Plan
GTZ           :      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH
KEK                  The Power Company of Kosovo
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NGOs          :      Non-Governmental Organizations
PC            :      Project Coordinator
PMR           :      Project Management Report
QCBS                 Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RFP                  Request for Proposals
SCADA         :      System Control and Data Acquisition
TORs                 Termns of Reference
UNMIK                United Nations Interim Administration
Mission in Kosovo
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV            :      Kilovolt
kW                   Kilowatt
MW                   Megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
kWh                  Kilowatt hour
GWh                  Gigawatt hour = I million kWh
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:    Henk Busz, ECSEG
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Iftikhar Khalil, ECSEG



KOSOVO
ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Govenmment strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Environmental                                                                      15
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              17
2. Other                                                                                 17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                             19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           30
Annex 4: Not Applicable.                                                                   31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   n.a.
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             n.a.
MAP(S)
Not Applicable.



KOSOVO
ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Energy Sector Unit
|Date: April 23, 2001                              Team Leader: Mian Iftikhar Khalil
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Project ID: P070046                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Theme(s): Energy
L_                                                 Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
N T Loan T       g    Credit    tXh Grant BoweGuarantee g    riOther:
NOTE: Throughout the report, the word "Borrower" means the grant recipient
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$2.50
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00            0.00          0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              0.00           2.50          2.50
Total:                                                         0.00            2.50          2.50
Borrower: UN INTERIM ADMIN. MISSION IN KOSOVO
Responsible agency: PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT
Address: UNMIK, Pristina
Contact Person: Jo Trutschler (Acting Co-head of UNMIK Public Utilities Department)
Tel: 381 38 500 223, ext. 6832             Fax: 1 (212) 963 8113               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY      l  2001       2002       2003
Annuall   0.60        1.80       0.10
Cumulative    0.60       2.40       2.50
Project implementation period: 04/01/01-12/31/2002 (including post-study training)



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Assist in the development of satisfactory long-term plans for the economically efficient reconstruction,
rehabilitation and restructuring of the power, lignite, district heating and petroleum sectors and
development of a natural gas sector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Timely and acceptable interim and final reports on the energy sector study that comprises the project;
formal decision by the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) to adopt a long-term
strategy based on the recommendations of the study.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:           Date of latest CAS discussion:
In place of a CAS, the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99-178) was endorsed by the Executive
Directors on October 7, 1999, and the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo Progress Report
(R2000-130) was endorsed by the Executive Directors on July 25, 2000. The overall objective is to
support sustainability of the reconstruction and recovery program. The Bank would seek to maximize the
impact of the limited resources it can make available for Kosovo by using its comparative advantage in
policy advice, institution building and aid coordination. In line with this approach, the Strategy affirms
that the Bank should assist in developing a long-term strategy for the energy sector. The project would do
this by providing technical assistance for an energy sector study that would prepare the main elements of
such a long-term energy strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Introduction: Status of the Energy Sector. The electricity, lignite and district heating sectors have
suffered from conflict damage, loss of mobile equipment, and lack of maintenance and poor management
dating back to before the conflict of 1998-99.
Electricity Generating Capacity, Generation, Consumption and Trade. Electricity has been Kosovo's
main source of energy. The total installed generation capacity is 1,513 MW, provided by two lignite-fired
therrmal power plants near Pristina (Kosovo A, which is near the end of its useful life, and Kosovo B, which
is about 15 years old) and one hydropower plant at Gazivode, which was built in 1981. The break-down of
the capacity is as follows:
Plant                             MW
Kosovo A:    Unit 1                65
Unit 2               125
Unit 3              200
Unit 4              200
Unit 5              210
Sub-total           800
-2 -



Kosovo B     Unit 1               339
Unit 2              339
Sub-total           678
Gazivode     Unit 1              17.5
Unit 2             17.5
Sub-total            35
Total              1,513
Even before the conflict, Kosovo A and B were in poor condition and the actual available capacity was
much less than 1,513 MW. During the conflict, the power plants suffered from lack of maintenance and
mismanagement, but there was no direct conflict damage. At the end of the conflict, only two of the five
units at Kosovo A operated intermittently and at reduced capacity because of lack of proper maintenance.
Kosovo B was not in operation due to problems in water treatment, turbines, a missing boiler circulating
pump, and the high activation energy required to re-start the units. Gazivode was in reasonably good
condition.
As a result of emergency repair measures financed by the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR),
Germany and Sweden, three out of five units at Kosovo A were available for operation as of July 2000, but
never simultaneously. Unit 4 was restarted following repair in November 2000. Repairs on Unit 3 started
in December 2000 and are expected to be completed by February 2001. Unit 1 at Kosovo B was in
operation for part of the year 2000, but a fire in its electrical instrumentation in December put it out of
service until March 2001. This unit is scheduled to be overhauled during the period May to September
2001. Unit 2 was partially rehabilitated and brought back into operation in November 2000, but its
availability has been unsatisfactorily low since then. Limited lignite supplies also serve as a constraint on
total thermal power production. The available hydropower capacity of .35 MW (repaired with Danish
financial assistance) at Gazivode is used during peak periods.
Estimates of electricity production, trade and consumption for 1989, 1997, 1999 and 2000 are shown in the
table below. The reasons for the selection of years are as follows. Nineteen eighty-nine was the first year
of full integration of the previously autonomous province of Kosovo into Serbia. It was also a
representative year for the economy of former Yugoslavia before the country began to break up in 1991.
Nineteen ninety-seven was the last full year before the conflict in Kosovo. The estimates shown for 1999
and 2000 are for the period immediately after the conflict. The data for 1989 and 1997 are less reliable
than those for 1999 and 2000 as the relevant reports were lost during the period of conflict. The most
significant features of the table are: the drastic reduction in electricity production as a result of the conflict,
the resulting conversion of Kosovo from being an exporter of electricity to becoming an importer, and the
relatively higher post-conflict peak demand, which is probably due to increased reliance on electricity for
space heating and cooking.
1989         1997  1999 (July-Dec)2000
Net power generation (GWh)       4,912         4,318         564           1,914
Net exports(-)/imports (+) (GWh)    -2,005     - 816         379            955
Consumption (GWh)                 2,907        3,502         943          2,869
Losses in transmission/distribution            1,050                       1,229
Peak demand (MW)                  546                        589           653
Minimum demand (MW)               362                                      368
-3-



Electricity Transmission and Distribution. During the conflict, the high-voltage network was partially
damaged resulting in the 400 kV transmission network being inoperable. The 220 kV network was in poor
condition. A large number of interconnection transformers were either out of operation or had been taken
away. Power exchanges with Albania and Serbia via the 220 kV network were possible. The 110 kV
network is vitally important for serving Kosovo's domestic demand, but significant parts were out of
service, and entire areas in south and south-west Kosovo were cut off. Conflict damage to the secondary
distribution network (0.4 to 110 kV) was extensive, estimated to affect 30% of the network.
Kosovo has close to 100% electricification. Only 7 villages lack electricity. They were previously
electrified, but post-conflict repairs have not yet been made because of difficulties in demining.
With assistance by Denmark and Norway, all three 400 kV transmission lines were brought back into
service by October 2000. All lines of the 220 kV network are operational except for one line between
Kosovo A and Skopje 2. The 110 kV lines are also operational, but further improvements are underway.
However, all transmission substations (400, 220 and 110 kV) are in a bad technical state. Repair and
improvement works are being carried out for the distribution networks with assistance by Denmark,
France, Germany, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, but all
the distribution substations (110, 35 and 0.4 kV) are overloaded.
A system control and data acquisition (SCADA) system was developed for the power sector in the late
1980s. However, the system is no longer in operation, since many components were damaged or lost
during the conflict. In addition, some of the keywords/passwords necessary for operation of the system
have been lost. Only voltage measurements and active and reactive power flows through the substations at
Kosovo A, Kosovo B and Pristina IV are observed in real time.
Lignite. Even before the conflict, the Mirash and Bardh lignite mines produced only about two-thirds of
their rated capacity of 16.7 million tons per year. There were no conflict-related physical damages in the
mines, but all mobile equipment was taken out of Kosovo by the end of the conflict. While the main mining
equipment was in operable condition, the amount of coal uncovered and ready for extraction was limited to
one or two months of production. The overburden removal apparently has been neglected for years. As a
result, the mining fronts were steep and unstable. Some equipment was threatened by the smoldering of
coal remnants, caused by self-ignition, and insufficient water drainage on some benches was another
impediment to production. Despite actions taken since the conflict with financing by the EAR and
Germany to replace lost equipment and carry out urgent repairs, total coal production was only 3 million
tons in 2000, compared to 1.1 million tons from July to December 1999.
District Heating. The district heating systems in Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica did not incur much
danmge during the conflict, but they have suffered from years of neglect and lack of maintenance,
combined with poor operating techniques and under-investments. At the same time, the need for heat has
increased since the large amount of damage to houses in rural areas has led many people to move into the
cities. The Termakos heating system in Pristina serves about 12,000 apartments, public buildings and
offices. The heated water is provided by two 58 MW heavy fuel oil-fired boilers (available capacity 2x40
MW) and a recently installed 14 MW boiler in the hospital area. The Gjakova heating system serves about
700 apartments, public buildings and offices. The heating plant consists of two heavy fuel oil-fired boilers
with capacities of 18 MW and 20 MW respectively. Only the 20 MW boiler is in working condition.
Assistance to the Pristina and Gjakova district heating systems is being provided by Sweden. The
Mitrovica district heating system supplies 160 apartments from a 9.3 MW fuel oil-fired boiler that was
built in 1980. The plant has suffered from lack of maintenance over the past decade and is in poor
- 4 -



condition. There is an urgent need for refurbishment of the plant as well as of the district heating
distribution network.
Institutional Framework. The representative of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission
(UNMIK) in the public utility sector is the Public Utilities Department, which establishes overall policy for
the public utilities sector, acts as regulator of the sector, appoints the supervisory board, exercises
oversight of each of the companies in the sector, and coordinates with donors. The companies (all publicly
owned) in the energy sector include: the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK), which also owns the Mirash
and Bardh lignite mines; Iber Lepenc (owner of the Gazivode Hydroelectric Power Station); Termakos (the
district heating company of Pristina); the Gjakova District Heating Company; and Standard (the Mitrovica
district heating company).
Some progress has been made since the end of the conflict in restoration of electricity billing, but
non-technical losses are high and revenue collection has been poor. Losses in power transmission and
distribution are about 43% of electricity entering the transmission network. Non-technical losses may be
one-half or more of total losses. Only 38% of bills issued to households and commercial customers for the
period September 1999-August 2000 had been collected as of early October 2000. Until KEK becomes
financially viable, it will depend on operating subsidies from UNMIK, which were DM 23.5 million in
2000.
Out of a total of 365,000 electricity consumers (60,000 domestic consumers in apartment buildings,
265,000 domestic consumers in private houses, and 40,000 commercial customers), it is estimated that
about 66,200 are currently without functioning meters (1,200 domestic consumers in apartment buildings,
60,000 domestic consumers in private houses, and 5,000 commercial consumers). There may also be some
damaged collective meter boxes in apartment buildings, but data are not available on these. Customers
without meters are charged fixed absolute amounts in Deutsche Marks at levels depending on whether their
consumption is assessed at below 400 kWh per month, between 400 and 800 kWh per month, or more than
800 kWh per month.
Main Issues. 1. Large needs for physical reconstruction and rehabilitation. While substantial
investments have already been carried out since the end of the conflict, much more is needed. Major future
investments should be justified in terrns of an overall least-cost strategy for future sector development
covering the next 15 years. Questions arise concerning the rate of growth of energy demand, especially
electricity demand, whether and when to retire existing power generating units, whether to repair these
units, make substantial rehabilitation investments, build replacement units, or import electricity instead of
producing it domestically. If new generating units are chosen, should they be lignite power plants,
hydropower plants, or perhaps gas-fired plants using imported natural gas? Closely related questions arise
concerning the nature and extent of investments on lignite production, the need for which would depend on
the demand for lignite for electricity production. In the case of district heating, questions arise concerning
whether it is competitive with other available forms of energy, whether combined heat and power
production would be a cost-minimizing option, and what fuels to use to produce district heat.
2. The need to re-establish and further develop an institutional framework for the energy sector. At the
end of the conflict, there was virtually no administrative structure in Kosovo, and UNMIK has temporarily
assumed the role that elsewhere would be performed by a government. How long it will perform this role is
not known. Before the conflict, the Kosovo power system was managed from Belgrade. By the time the
conflict ended, the local managers had left and the system data had been lost. UNMIK created KEK as a
new power utility and re-established basic functions sl;ch as billing customers. While UNMIK has
supervisory control over KEK and the other energy sectoi :ompanies, the ownership arrangements remain
- 5-



to be clarified.
The following sub-issues may be identified relating to institutional creation and development in the energy
sector:
(i) the nature and rate of evolution of a regulatory framework for the power and lignite, district heating and
petroleum sub-sectors, and for natural gas in the event that gas is imported;
(ii) the nature and rate of evolution of KEK and the other energy sector companies, including possible new
ones (e.g. for petroleum and natural gas), towards greater autonomy, corporatization, commercialization
and eventual competition and privatization; and
(iii) the determination of a new electricity tariff structure and procedures for change over time designed to
encourage efficiency and enable KEK to have a satisfactory fmnancial performance, while taking account of
social considerations.
UNMIK's Strategy. UNMIK's goals for the power sector are to: (i) provide reliable and affordable power
to Kosovo and (ii) enable KEK to become a technically sound and commercially viable company. The
proposed means are to: (i) carry out rehabilitation works to provide for the long-term and sustainable
improvement in power supply; (ii) reorganize and modemize the power sector, with the support of donors;
and (iii) restructure the Board of Directors of KEK (done in mid-2000). The inmmediate priorities are to
ensure that all possible efforts are made to enable Kosovo A and B to meet as much as possible of the
current domestic power demand and to arrange for imported electricity to cover the deficit.
The Public Utilities Department proposes that the public utilities, including the energy sector companies
under its jurisdiction, should prepare for a free market economy that allows for private companies to
operate public utilities commercially, employing intemationally accepted accounting standards, with
defined community service obligations, and within a sound regulatory framework. Its organizational
objectives include pursuing policies that will result in its supervisory and donor coordination
responsibilities becoming eventually unnecessary. After that, its main role would be as regulator of the
rates and services of the public utility providers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In accordance with a program for reconstruction and recovery in Kosovo agreed at a Donors' Conference in
Brussels on November 17, 1999, the proposed project would provide technical assistance to help develop a
strategy for the energy sector rather than on financing rehabilitation investments. The technical assistance
would focus on the two issues described in Section 2 by: (i) assisting in defining a least-cost investment
program for rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of the energy sector over a period of 15 years; and
(ii) preparing recommendations for institutional strengthening and sector reform covering all the listed
sub-issues.
The tasks on institutional strengthening and reform in the power sector would support UNMIK's
short-to-medium term goal of "enabling KEK to become a technically sound and commercially viable
company" as well as the Public Utility Department's goal of "a free market economy allowing private
companies to operate public utilities." The emphasis on KEK's viability as the short-to-medium term goal
is important since this company is new, requires large subsidies and operates in an uncertain political and
economic environment (see Section 2) so that early privatization may not be feasible.
- 6-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of a technical assistance component to prepare an energy sector study. The study
would have 13 modules with the following scope:
A.    Carry out a household energy survey and affordability study, evaluate the feasibility and cost of
using altemative forms of energy for cooking and space heating and other uses, and make projections of
electricity demand for the period from 2002-2015;
B.    Determine the production capability and remaining lifetimes of the existing power generating
facilities (Submodule B1); identify options for future power generating capacity and provide data on their
technical characteristics and costs (Sub-module B2); and determine a least-cost power generation
investment program for the period 2002 to 2015 to meet the projected demand (Sub-module B3);
C.    Prepare altemative programs for rehabilitation and expansion of the power transmission system
and analyze these together with the least-cost and selected other power generation options considered in the
least-cost power generation investment module in order to determine a least-cost expansion plan based on
the most economic combination of generation and transmission systems; for the recommended transmission
program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with their estimated costs;
D.    Analyze the technical losses in power transmission and distribution, and propose immediate and
long-term measures and realistic loss reduction targets for the period 2002-2015, including associated
costs;
E.    Evaluate the feasibility of a new SCADA system and associated telecommunications facilities for
power system dispatching in Kosovo, with phased implementation if appropriate; for the recommended
program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with their estimated costs;
F.    Determine, by order of priority, further investment requirements in distribution capacity for the
period 2002-2015; for the recommended distribution program provide lists of components, equipment and
materials along with their estimated costs;
G.    Propose a lignite mine development strategy for the period up to 2015 for supply to existing
thermal power stations, possible new thermal power stations identified in Module B and other users, and
estimate future production costs;
H.    Evaluate the current state of the district heating facilities and equipment in the district heating
systems of Pristina, Gjakova, and Mitrovica; compare the competitiveness of district heating with other
heating options; investigate options for improving efficiency and changing fuels (including the option of
reducing conventional fuel demands through incineration of municipal waste); and evaluate options for
further rehabilitation of network and boiler stations, including the related costs and benefits; the
transformation of the heat-only boiler stations in Pristina to become peak-load stations in the case of
introducing co-generation as part of the least-cost power expansion plan should be part of the investigation;
1.    Investigate the technical and economic feasibility of importing natural gas to Kosovo, estimating
the demand for this gas and identifying the required infrastructure in pipeline and gas distribution facilities;
- 7-



provide estimates of the costs of this infrastructure as well as of the delivered cost of gas to consumers; and
make recommendations on the most suitable structure for the gas sector within Kosovo;
J.     Estimate the future demand for petroleum products; investigate ways to encourage the emergence
of a privately owned petroleum industry in Kosovo that would operate with sufficient competition to avoid
the need for price controls by the Kosovo administrative authorities; and make recommendations on the
establishment of a regulatory framework that would ensure that all petroleum products sold in Kosovo meet
prescibed quality standards and that would minimize tax evasion by oil importers and other petroleum
companies;
K.    On the basis of the above modules, prepare detailed recommended investment plans for the power,
lignite, district heating, natural gas and petroleum sectors, and identify options for financing the
investments;
L.    On the basis of the least-cost generation and transmission expansion program, and the programs
for dispatching and distribution, estimate the economic costs of electricity and determine an electricity tariff
structure for Kosovo that takes account of these costs and of social considerations while providing enough
revenue to ensure a satisfactory financial performance of KEK, and recommend a transition strategy for
moving to the new tariff structure (a similar analysis for district heating cannot be carried out because of
insufficient budget); and
M.    Examine the intemal organizational structure and operations of each of the energy companies,
make recommendations to improve efficiency; and make recommendations on the evolution of the sector
towards greater company autonomy, corporatization, commercialization, competition and privatization,
where feasible.
The consultants would give to the Public Utilities Department and KEK the models (software) used to
make the demand projections, determine the least-cost investment program, calculate economic costs of
electricity supply, determine tariff rates, and measure financial performance. They would also provide
training in the use of these models. The consultants would also make available, on a full time basis for a
period of six months after completion of the studies, a specialist to continue training in the use of the
models provided.
Energy Sector Study                                      2.50     100.0       2.50     100.0
Total Project Costs                    2.50      100.0      2.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                      2.50     100.0       2.50      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The study would make recommendations on electricity tariff and energy sector reform. Agreement would
be sought that a long-term strategy providing for economic cost-reflective electricity tariffs and energy
sector evolution towards greater company autonomy, corporatization, commercialization, competition and
privatization where feasible would be developed on the basis of the recommendations of the energy sector
study.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the energy sector study would consist of valuable infornation including identification of: (i)
the likely least-cost feasible future investment programs in the power, coal, district heating, gas and
petroleum sectors; (ii) an electricity tariff structure that would satisfy the financial requirements of KEK
while at the same time taking into account economic costs of supply and social considerations; (iii)
measures to improve efficiency in the internal operations of the energy sector public utilities; and (iv) sector
reform programs and time schedules for each of the power, lignite, district heating, gas and petroleum
sectors.
The immediate beneficiaries of the study would be the energy sector public utilities and the Public Utilities
Department. The ultimate beneficiaries of implementation of the results of the technical assistance would
be the consumers of electricity, lignite, district heating, natural gas and petroleum products. Their benefits
would consist of more reliable energy supplies at lower costs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The grant would be given to UNMIK. The Public Utilities Department of UNMIK would be the
implementing agency which would appoint a Project Coordinator (PC) acceptable to the Bank. The PC
would be assisted by project coordinators appointed by KEK and by each of the three district heating
companies. The PC would be responsible for supervising the work of the consultants, coordinating issues
related to disbursements, and implementing the Project from a professional and technical point of view.
Under the UNMIK structure, only the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which acts as the Ministry of
Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts, and conduct and monitor financial transactions including
the appointment of an independent auditor. It is, therefore, proposed that the CFA be responsible for the
financial management aspects of the Grant administration, including preparing the financial management
reports required by the Bank; and having the use of the Grant funds audited on an annual basis. An
assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been conducted, and it has been concluded that the
existing system meets at least the minimum needs for proper grant administration and reporting. The
system is being programmed under existing IDA-administered Trust Fund projects, and is expected to be
able to produce Project Management Reports (PMRs) no later than September 30, 2001. The PC will
work closely with the CFA in the preparation of the PMRs. The CFA is in the process of appointing an
international auditor to undertake periodic audits of the entire consolidated Kosovo budget. It is acceptable
to the Bank for this auditor to audit the use of grant funds. Normal disbursement procedures would be
used.
A separate department, the Central Procurement Entity (CPE), is responsible for carrying out all
procurement within UNMIK. The CPE is carrying out the agreed procurement plan according to agreed
procedures on behalf of the Public Utilities Department. However, the Department was responsible for
defining the terms of reference, determining short lists, establishing evaluation committees, and would be
responsible for contract management.
The project, including post-study training, would be completed by September 30, 2002. The closing date
would be December 31, 2002.
-9-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An alternative would be to use the $2.5 mnillion grant for physical rehabilitation. This option was rejected
since the available money is too small relative to the total requirements to have much of an impact. A
number of other donors are participating in the reconstruction effort (see D2).
During the past decade, in addition to the lack of maintenance and new investnents in these sectors, there
has been little work on defining future needs and strategies. Furthernore, other donors are providing only
limited assistance with respect to long-term strategy issues, and the Bank has a comparative advantage in
this area.
The reconmmended option is to provide technical assistance to establish a long-term energy sector
investment program and contribute to institutional strengthening and reform in the power sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Substantial assistance has been provided to Kosovo since mid-1999 by the international donor community
led by the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR). A list of donor contributions is in the following
table.
- 10-



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                         Project                   (PSR) Ratings
.______________________________ . _____________________ _ .(Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                         Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
The proposed project would be
the Bank's first in the energy
sector in Kosovo.
Other development agencies
Ligite.                               EC(EAR): equipment, spare
parts and consummables.
Germany (KfW): spare parts
and vehicles.
Power generation.                    Denmark: repairs and spare
parts for Gazivode hydropower
station.
EC (EAR): repairs at Kosovo
A and B, overhaul of Kosovo
B2.
Germany/BMZ (KfW): spare
parts and consultancy for
Kosovo A3, A4 and A5.
Germany/BMZ (GTZ): supply
of small-scale generating units.
Sweden: equipment and repairs
at Kosovo A and B.
Power transmission.                  Denmark: repair of 400 kV,
220 kV and 110 kV lines.
Norway: repair of 400 kV lines.
United Kingdom: supply of
vehicles.
- 11 -



Power distribution.                Supply of equipment and
repairs by: Denmark, EC
(EAR), France, Germany,
Japan, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, United Kingdom,
United States.
Power sector institutional support.  EC: payment of salaries,
assistance to KEK
management, supply of
imported electricity.
Germany/BMZ (GTZ,KfW):
capacity building, feasibility
study of extending life of
Kosovo A3-A5.
United Kingdom: payment of
salaries, assistance to KEK
management.
United States: training,
establishment of financial
management systems
District heating.                  Germany/BMZ (GTZ):
emergency repair of Pristina
district heating plant.
Sweden: repair of Pristina and
Gjakova district heating
distribution system,
management training and
advisory support for the
Pristina and Gjakova district
heating companies.
Liquid fuels and other consumables  Supply of fuels by Canada,
Germany, Ireland; supply of
fuels and other consumables by
the EC and the UK.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in other countries points to a need
for careful and realistic planning of the technical assistance and close monitoring of the consultants in order
to ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. The Bank has been working closely with the Public
Utilities Departrnent in drafting clear and comprehensive Terms of Reference, and in proposing realistic
schedules. The Bank would also be closely involved in monitoring project implementation.
In order to avoid delays in implementation, the activities for selection of consultants are being carried out in
parallel with project processing. It is expected that bids will be received and be under evaluation prior to
project approval.
In order to ensure that the technical assistance takes full account of conditions in Kosovo, and that the
results and recommendations are acceptable to the Grantee and beneficiaries, it is proposed that the
consultants carry out all of their work in Kosovo. Furthermore, representatives of KEK and the district
heating companies would be actively involved in all stages of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UNMIK and KEK attach high priority to defining a long-term least-cost energy sector investment program
and has requested the Bank's assistance for this task. Both the Public Utilities Department and KEK played
major roles in preparation of the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has extensive experience in supervising and monitoring studies and technical assistance on the
same topics in other transition countries, including in the Balkans (e.g., in Albania and Bosnia and
Herzegovina). This experience would enable the Bank to provide useful advice during the phases of
finalization of the terms of reference, selection of the consultants, carrying out of the studies, and
implementation of the results.  The Bank's involvement in the project would also help to attract
well-qualified firms as bidders and help ensure that they prepare sound proposals.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
I. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
An economic evaluation of the energy sector study was not carried out. While the benefits of the energy
sector study are expected to be substantial, they would be difficult to quantify since they would be derived
from the benefits of the investments and other actions taken to implement the results of the technical
assistance, but the identification of those investments and other actions would be the main result of the
technical assistance itself and not known in advance. Selection of consultants using competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with World Bank guidelines would help ensure that the technical assistance
package is cost effective.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
- 13-



A financial evaluation of the energy sector study was not considered to be feasible for the same reasons as
for the economic evaluation.
It was neither necessary nor feasible during project preparation to conduct an analysis of the financial
performance of KEK and the district heating utilities that would benefit from the project. Given that
post-conflict recovery is still at an early stage and the incomes of most energy consumers are very low, the
public utilities in the energy sector will depend for several years on subsidies to pay for part of their
operating costs as well as most or all of their investments. During 2000, KEK incurred operating expenses
of DM 58 million, had an income of DM 46.6 million, and received operating subsidies of DM 23.5
million. The technical assistance itself would focus, among other things, on the main financial issues. In
particular, the tariff study would evaluate the financial performance of KEK in order to determine the tariff
level that would ensure eventual full cost recovery in the power sector.
Fiscal lmpact:
There would be no fiscal expenditures for recurrent costs of the project and no tax impact. In the long
term, significant savings are expected due to reduced energy imports and subsidies to energy companies as
a result of the implementation of the study's recommendations.
3. Technical:
Not applicable.
4. Institutional:
The institutional arrangerrents would be as described in Section C.4.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency would be the Public Utilities Department, which was established by UNMIK in
August 2000 with responsibility for the management oversight and regulation of the public utilities in
Kosovo, including the power and district heating companies.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by a Project Coordinator (PC) within the Public Utilities Department,
assisted by the respective project coordinators of KEK and the district heating companies of Pristina,
Gjakova and Mitrovica, which would be beneficiaries of the technical assistance provided under the
project. The PC would be responsible for selection of the consultants for the energy sector study in
accordance with Bank guidelines, supervision of their work, evaluation of the results of the technical
assistance, assistance in disbursements, and preparation of follow-up actions. The consultants would be
required to carry out their work in Kosovo in order to maximize the collaboration between consultants and
beneficiaries during project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There would be a consultant contract for the energy sector study. Selection of the consultants would be in
accordance with the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. The requests for proposals
would be issued during project preparation, and the proposals received and evaluated before project
approval, so that the contract could be awarded shortly thereafter.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The maintenance of accounts and handling of disbursements would be in conformity with the Bank's
financial management requirements. The PMRs would be prepared by the CFA. A financial management
- 14 -



specialist would be hired under a separate Bank project, who would be assigned to the CFA and would
work primarily on all Bank-funded grants.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatmnent emerging from this analysis.
There are no environmental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An EMP is not required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
One issue concerns the extent to which low-income households can afford to pay cost-covering tariffs for
electricity. This issue would be investigated in a household energy survey that would be carried out under
the project, and appropriate measures included in the recommendations. The survey would involve
interviewing a statistically appropriate sample of households in order to ascertain the amount of electricity
and other energy consumed by families in each of several defined income brackets, the specific purposes for
which the electricity is consumed, the time pattems of consumption, the affordability of electricity (to be
determined by comparing its cost to the family income), and attitudes towards the use of electricity relative
to alternative energy sources for cooking, space and water heating.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key stakeholders would be the Public Utilities Department, KEK and the district heating companies of
Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica. They would all participate in the project coordinating committee, work
directly with the consultants throughout the project implementation period and provide most of the data
needed for the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
While conducting the social and environmental part of the study, the Consultants would be required to
consult with relevant NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 15 -



One of the purposes of the tariff module would be to recommend appropriate arrangements. The cost of
any subsidies that might be recommended, for example through the use of a lifeline tariff rate, would not be
bome by KEK.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
There would be no social outcomes until the tariff module is completed and its recommendations
implemented. The recommendations are to be implemented after the project is closed.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would require that the information, recommendations and training provided by the technical
assistance are effectively utilized. To the extent that political stability is maintained and economic
recovery, especially of the energy sector, continues more or less steadily so that there is acceptable
movement towards full cost recovery by the energy companies, there are reasonable prospects for
sustainability. The study would provide essential input for key decisions related to the future development
of the sector.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Failure to complete the study.              N         Adequate budget, clear and comprehensive
TORs, QCBS procedure, adequate supervision,
commitment from UNMIK, KEK and the
district heating companies.
From Components to Outputs
- 16 -



Delay in start of the study                 N         Ensure that bids are received and evaluation
started before approval of the grant.
Delay in completion of the study            M         Choose realistic time schedule.
Cost overrun for the study                  N         Ensure that bids are received and evaluation
started before approval of the grant.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
IJNMIK agreed to develop and adopt a long-term strategy within three months of completion of the energy
sector study providing for economic cost-based electricity tariffs and energy sector evolution towards
greater company autonomy, corporatization, commercialization, competition and privatization where
feasible, on the basis of the recommendations of the energy sector study.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ol 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 17-



C'4\~~~~H'n Busz    =W  hisieKA"
Team Leader              Sector Manager            Country anager
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Hierorchy of Obals                   9 _              Monitodrig & Evaluation    Critical As
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Development of a long-term   Formal decision by UNMIK to Supervision and project  Willingness of the key
strategy for the energy sector. adopt a long-term strategy    progress reports.  stakeholders to accept the
based on recommendations of                           recommendations of the
the reports of the 13 energy                          study.
sector study modules.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Assist in the development of Acceptance of the final report Supervision reports and  Effective supervision to
satisfactory long-term plans of the energy sector study.    project progress reports.  ensure successful completion
for the economically                                                             of the study.
efficient reconstruction,
recovery and restructuring
of the power, lignite, district
heating and petroleum
sectors and development of
a natural gas sector.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Reports of the 13 energy   Acceptance of the inception,  Supervision reports and  Implementation in accordance
sector study modules.      interim and final reports.  progress reports.         with the contract provisions.
- 19 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Electricity demand module.   The budget of US$2.5 million Supervision reports and  Selection of competent
Least-cost power generation  for the 13 energy sector study  progress reports.  consultants and prompt award
investment module.        modules and follow-up task is                        of contracts.
Power transm;ssion master   not broken down by
plan.                     sub-component.
Power loss reduction module.
Power dispatch system
module.
Power distribution master
plan.
Lignite mines module.
District heating module.
Natural gas module.
Petroleum module.
Electricity tariff module.
Investment plan and
financing options module.
Future structure of energy
sector module.
Training and follow-up.
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The project consists of only one component, an energy sector study with 13 modules plus training.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.50 million
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Module A - Electricity Demand
I.    The tasks of the electricity demand module are the following:
i.     collect available information on: electricity consumption by consumer category, economic sector,
specific end-use, location of electricity consumption; load duration curves, the nunber of
consumers in each consumer category; technical and non-technical transmission and distribution
losses, population size, characteristics and historical and projected trends; national income and
household incomes;
ii.    undertake a sample survey of households to deternine the amount of electricity and other energy
consumed by families at each of several defined income levels, the specific purposes for which the
electricity is consumed, time patterns of consumption, affordability of electricity, and attitudes
towards the use of electricity relative to alternative energy sources for cooking, space and water
heating;
iii.   identify possible supply constraints on electricity consumption (forced outages, non-availability of
connections, less-than-desirable reliability standards) and alternative paths for liffing supply
constraints;
iv.    investigate the costs and availability of alternative forms of energy for cooking, space and water
heating (e.g., district heating, kerosene, heating oil, LPG, natural gas, coal, fuel wood);
v.     evaluate the impact on electricity demand by households of possible widespread non-payment for
electricity;
vi.    determine likely income and price elasticities of demand, identify possible demand side
management measures and assess their impact;
vii.   prepare a most likely projection and at least two alternative projections of electricity demand by
households for the period 2002-2015 on the basis of the above information, with at least one
projection taking account of substantial use of altemative forms of energy for cooking, water and
space heating if these forms of energy are expected to be feasible, of acceptable quality,
competitive in price, and at the same time on-payment for electricity is reduced to negligible levels;
at least one of the household demand projections shall be on the assumption of no supply
constraints;
viii.  identify existing and likely high-voltage industrial and commercial electricity consumers, and, using
appropriate methods including extensive interviews with the existing consumers, and taking
- 21 -



account of the same considerations as are used for projecting household demand such as supply
constraints, non-payment for electricity, income and price elasticities of demand, and demand side
management measures; prepare a most likely and two altemative projections of their electricity
consumption for the period 2002 to 2015;
ix.    on the basis of a suitable method, including a market survey, and taking account of the same
considerations as are used for projecting household demand such as supply constraints,
non-payment for electricity, income and price elasticities of demand, and demand side management
measures, prepare projections of electricity consumption for agriculture and by medium and small
commercial consumers for the period 2002-2015;
x.    on the basis of suitable methods, including a market survey, prepare projections for all remaining
customer categories for the period 2002-2015;
xi.   calculate a most likely aggregate electricity consumption projection and at least two altemative
aggregate electricity projections for the period 2002-2015;
xii.   make projections of power transmission and distribution losses (technical plus non-technical), and
add these to the above aggregate electricity consumption projections to get estimates of demand for
net electricity supply;
xiii.  prepare projections of peak load to correspond to the above aggregate electricity consumption
projections;
xiv.   using the results of the market surveys and other considerations, estimate annual and seasonal load
duration curves and typical daily load curves for the various consumer categories and for aggregate
electricity demand; and
xv.    allocate the projected electricity demands by region within Kosovo.
Module B - Least-Cost Power Generation Investment Program
2.     The tasks of the least-cost power generation investment program module are to be carried out
under the three sub-modules described below.
Sub-module B1: The consultants shall visit the Kosovo A and B thermal power plants and the Gazivode
hydropower station and review existing studies on the state of these plants and rehabilitation plans to
evaluate the future availability and reliability of power supply from these plants. This work also includes
determining heat rates, gross versus net output, minimum and maximum output rates, likely maintenance
and unplanned outage time, fuel and non-fuel operating costs. The consultants shall estimate retirement
dates for the existing units on the basis of comparison of (a) operating costs per kWh of the existing units
without firther rehabilitation, (b) operating and possible rehabilitation investment costs per kWh of
existing plants (including needed pollution control measures), and (c) investment plus operating costs per
kWh of new generating units. These estimates shall be reconfirmed using the results of the least-cost
power generation investment study discussed below.
- 22 -



Sub-module B2: The consultants shall review the technically feasible development options for future
generating facilities to meet peak and off-peak demand for the period 2002-2015 including: hydropower,
including:
* the possible Zhur hydropower plant for which a preliminary study was prepared in 1983;
* coal power plants;
* oil-fired stearn and combustion turbines;
* gas-fired combustion turbines and combined-cycle units; and
* co-generation, for example by converting existing units at district heating plants into co-generation
units.
For each of the above options, the consultants shall consider alternative unit sizes. The consultants may
awsh to evaluate options for rehabilitating existing power generating units by treating these options as new
getterating options in the least-cost investment program model (Sub-module B3).
1 y shall investigate imported electricity as an alternative to new generation within Kosovo, and options
for export of electricity to neighboring countries. They shall also consider the feasibility of coordinating
the operation of the predominantly thermal Kosovo system with neighboring countries that have
predominantly hydro power systems. In analyzing the import and export options, the consultants shall
consider two alternative long-term scenarios involving: (a) strong integration of the Kosovo power system
into the Balkan regional systems and markets; and (b) maintenance of the Kosovo power system as a
separate, self-sufficient entity. Four weeks after starting work on Module B, the consultants shall provide
an inception report describing how they propose to handle these scenarios.
For each generation option, the consultants shall determine the heat rates at various levels of operation,
gross versus net output, minimum and maximum output rates, likely maintenance and unplanned outage
time, lifetime, fuel and non-fuel operating costs and investment costs (including all costs for needed
pollution control measures), construction period and any other data considered relevant to the selection of
that option in the optimal investment program. They shall select a justifiable location taking account of:
proximity to load centers, availability of water, fuel supply and storage, foundation conditions, access to
transmission lines and ecological effects, determine the technical characteristics such as: heat rate, gross
versus net output, minimum and maximum output rates, construction period, lifetime, likely maintenance
and unplanned outage time, capital costs, fuel costs, fixed and variable non-fuel operating costs, costs of
connection to the transmission grid, risks involved and environmental impacts. The fuel cost estimates are
to be obtained from Modules G, I and J.
Sub-module B3: The consultants shall:
i.    review historical power generation and consumption since the end of the conflict and show the
balances of electrical energy and power for each year since the conflict, with transmission and
distribution losses, electricity use and losses in power generation (the difference between gross and
net generation), imports and exports shown separately;
ii.    review the historical load patterns and develop characteristic annual, seasonal and daily load
duration curves;
iii.    make an estimate of the cost per kWh to affected consumers of unserved energy;
iv.    using a power system optimization model (e.g., the Wiener Automatic System Package III -
WASP III), the      projected demand for electricity (estimated by the electricity demand study), the
-23 -



load duration curves (also estimated by the demand study), and the data on existing and new power
generation options (prepared for the above-mentioned studies of these options) determine the
combination and timing of generating units that will yield the lowest present value of capital and
operating costs (a discount rate of 12% in real terns may be used) over the period 2002-2015, with
appropriate adjustments being made for the value of the residual life of generating plant after 2015;
v.     for purposes of comparison identify a few altemative feasible investment programs with similar
present values of capital and operating costs that might be of interest; and carry out sensitivity tests
on the least-cost program with respect to: the discount rate, the costs of the different fuels,
differential inflation in fuel prices, different construction costs, different retirement dates for the
existing units, growth in electricity demand, electricity import and export prices, alternative
assumptions concerning the handling of unserved energy (e.g., using different values for the cost of
unserved energy or fixing lirmit values of the loss of load probability or power capacity reserve
margin), shadow price of unskilled labor, and shadow price of foreign exchange; investigate the
base case and the most promising alternative scenarios together with the alternative power
transmission programs prepared for the power transmission master plan (Module C) in order to
determine the least cost power generation plus transmission plan; after review of the base case and
sensitivity cases select a recommended investment program;
vi.    present the results of the recommended investment program for: selection of generating units, the
timing of entry into service of each such tmit; output of each generating unit during each year of
the projection period, projected energy and capacity balances for the period 2002-2015, investment
costs by year, fuel costs by year, other operating costs by year, cost of unserved energy each year;
vii,   investigate the implications of the least-cost program for actions needed to acquire sites for new
power stations and investments required for fuel supply;
viii.   identify possible constraints and risks, including possible environmental risks, to implementation of
the recommended investment program; and
ix.    make precise recomrnrendations and present realistic time schedules for implementing the
investment plan, including identification of future studies, detailed design and specifications,
procurement, construction and financing arrangements necessary to ensure timely operation of all
works recommended.
Module C - Power Transmission Master Plan
3.     The transmission master plan for the period 2002-2015 shall cover recommended rehabilitation
investments in addition to repair and rehabilitation investments curTently underway plus alternative
programs of new transmission lines and substations. The plan shall ensure adequate connections for the
various load centers within Kosovo, sufficient interconnections with neighboring countries, connections to
the grid of new power generating units, and bring about reliability improvements and reductions in power
transmission losses. The alternative transmission programs shall be analyzed together with the power
generation options considered in the least-cost power generation investment module (Module B) in order to
determine a least-cost expansion plan based on the most economic combination of generation and
transmission systems. Account shall be taken of existing and ongoitig studies on regional interconnections
in Southeast Europe. For the recommended transmission program, the consultants shall provide lists of
components, equipment and materials along with their estimated costs.
- 24 -



Module D - Reduction in Technical Power Losses in Transmission and Distribution
4.     The consultants shall thoroughly analyze and assess the technical losses in transmission and
distribution, identify their causes, propose immnediate and long-term measures and realistic loss reduction
targets over the period 2002-2015, including associated costs. The consultants shall select at least three
representative zones in Kosovo, in consultation with KEK, which the consultants shall analyze in full
detail. Following this analysis, the results would be generalized to the whole of Kosovo, using a
methodology agreed with KEK. An altemative method to the three zone approach may be proposed by the
consultants.
Module E - Power Dispatch System Plan
5.    Evaluate the feasibility of a new SCADA System for Kosovo, in comparison with the option of
rehabilitating the existing system, and evaluate options for installing associated telecommunications
facilities. The consultants shall recommend a SCADA system and associated telecommunications facilities
suitable for Kosovo, with phased implementation if appropriate, and lists of components, materials and
equipment along with their estimated costs.
Module F - Power Distribution Master Plan
6.    Based on information and rehabilitation plans provided by KEK, the consultants shall carry out an
assessment to determine, by order of priority in accordance with criteria to be proposed by the consultants,
further rehabilitation requirements and investments in new distribution capacity for the period 2002-2015.
The consultants shall recommend a distribution investment program, with lists of components, equipment
and materials along with their estimated costs.
Module G - Lignite Mining Development Strategy
7.    The consultants shall develop a long-termn recommended mine development strategy by taking into
account the following aspects:
i.     Coal reserves. With assistance from local geological/mining experts and the Institute Inkos,
verification shall be sought on the quality and quantity of economically exploitable coal reserves.
For the mining area selected for eventual mining after depletion of the presently mined area,
particular attention shall be given to overburden/coal ratio and the dilution of coal with dirt layers
within the coal seam.
ii.    Coal market. The future coal production level shall be determined in part by the regional demand
and supply of thermally generated electricity and in part by demands for coal by industry,
households and possible export markets. The consultants shall estimate the future demand for coal
by each consumer category, taking account of competition by other forms of energy, particularly
fuel oil and natural gas. To determine the role of the Kosovo thermal power plants, the consultants
shall first estimate the cost of lignite production and then use this information in the least-cost
power generation investment program simulations in order to get a preliminary estimate of the role
of the Kosovo plants. If this estimate of production at the Kosovo plants affects the estimate of the
cost of coal, the latter shall be recalculated and then the simulation models re-run.
iii.    Environment.  The impact of future mining in terms of resettlement, land use, groundwater
availability, air pollution (through smoldering mine fires) and possibly other environmental aspects
shall be carefully reviewed and dealt with as an important factor in arriving at future mining
decisions. This is particularly important if any future mining is to be carried outside the present
mining areas.
- 25 -



iv.    Mine planning. The mine shall be planned with due consideration to the environment and optimum
equipment utilization. Depending on the rate of future coal production, a reduction of the number
of equipment, while significantly improving the utilization and output of remaining equipment, is
highly desirable. The decommissioning of redundant equipment, improvement of remaining
equipment and consequences for the mine design shall be defined.
v.    Production costs. The future production costs (in terms of $/GJ) shall be determined for the
retained mining development strategy. The investment costs shall cover the costs of major
equipment overhauls and improvements, major equipment replacements if and when needed,
adequate auxiliary equipment and its recurring replacement, adequate initial stock of spare parts
and materials, workshop improvements, investment-type expenses for mitigation of the
environmental impact and any other expenses the consultants deem necessary. Operating costs
shall be based on comparison with intemational operations, with supplies and services adjusted for
the projected efficiencies in Kosovo, and with personnel costs adjusted for the different wage levels
and anticipated employment numbers.
Module H - District Heating
8.     For each of the district heating systems of Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica, this module shall
include the evaluation of the current state of the district heating facilities and equipment, taking account of
investments being financed by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), assess
the competitiveness of district heating with altemative sources of energy, investigate options for improving
efficiency and changing fuels, and evaluate options for further rehabilitation/improvement (including the
possibility of using heat from units at Kosovo A or B), and their costs. This module shall be coordinated
with the review of options for new power generation (Module B) in order to appraise the feasibility of
co-generation of electricity and hot water. Consideration shall also be given to whether the ownership of
co-generation facilities should belong to the district heating company(ies) involved or to KEK. In addition
the consultants shall consider the option of transferring ownership and operation of the district heating
companies to KEK.
Module I -Natural Gas
9.     The tasks of the natural gas module are as follows:
i.    Import Options. The consultants shall review the options and assess the technical and economic
feasibility of importing natural gas to Kosovo by pipeline, including the options of extending to
Kosovo the existing pipeline from Russia to Skopje and of using the existing pipeline (after
rehabilitation if necessary) previously used to transport manufactured gas from Kosovo to Skopje.
ii.    Gas Demand Forecast. For each import option which is likely to be feasible, the consultants shall
determine the demand for gas in Kosovo taking account of the pipeline route for that option, the
cost of alternative energy forms which may be substituted by gas, and making reasonable
assumptions about economic growth and demographic factors. This will require the consultants to
review and understand the pricing regime for alternative fuels (LPG, fuel oil, etc), and important
pricing distortions. Gas demand forecasts shall be made by geographical location and by
consuming sector, i.e., for power generation, district heating, industry, commercial customers and
households.
iii.   Infrastructure Investments.   For each import option, the consultants shall identify the
infrastructure requirements including transmission, distribution and other necessary facilities, and
- 26 -



taking account of optimum routing, pipeline diameter, connections to power plants, large industries
and city gates, residential patterns of energy use, etc. Also, estimate costs at the consumer level
(e.g., cost of appliances for residential/commercial consumers, costs of conversion of large existing
consumers to natural gas).  Prepare cost estimates and an investment plan for all these
infrastructure requirements, broken down by domestic and foreign costs. Propose a feasible time
schedule for implementing the investments.
iv.    Cost Benefit Analysis. Using the identified gas infrastructure investments, the consultants shall
prepare a cost benefit analysis, to include net present value and rate of return calculations, to
determine the optimum import option. These should clearly show all costs, including engineering,
investment, construction and operating costs year by year over the lifetime of the project. The
economic feasibility of the investments should be confirmed by calculating the delivered cost of gas
to consumer groups using realistic assumptions concerning the border price of imported gas on the
one hand, and taking account of the delivered price of gas to different consumer groups necessary
to allow gas to be competitive with alternative fuels and penetrate the market on the other hand.
Sensitivity calculations shall be performed which show the results of variations in key parameters
such as costs of investments, construction overruns, price of gas, discount rate, etc.
v.     Institutional and Regulatory Issues. The consultants shall review the current institutional, legal
and regulatory framework for the sector and make recommendations concerning appropriate
actions which need to be taken to implement these investments, giving consideration to private as
well as public sponsorship, and to establish an appropriate regulatory framework for the gas
sector.
Module J - Petroleum
10.    The tasks to be performed by the consultants for the petroleum module are to:
i.     estimate the future demand for petroleum products, consistent with the demands for the other forms
of energy estimated in the other modules;
ii.    investigate ways to encourage the emergence of a privately-owned petroleum industry in Kosovo
for cost-effective import of petroleum products, operating under sufficient competition to avoid the
need for price controls by the Kosovo administrative authorities;
iii.    estimate the delivered costs of the different petroleum products; and
iv.    make recommendations on the establishment of a regulatory framework that would ensure that all
petroleum products sold in Kosovo meet prescribed quality standards and that would minimize tax
evasion by oil importers and other petroleum companies.
Module K - Investment Plan and Financing Options
I.    On the basis of the above investment studies, the consultants shall prepare detailed investment
plans for the power, coal, gas and district heating sectors, giving separate local and foreign cost estimates
for each project (or group of projects) and a disbursement schedule for each project. The consultants shall
investigate options for financing the investments, including making estimates of the extent to which local
costs can be financed within Kosovo. Among the financing options to be considered would be private loans
and equity capital for investments during at least the later years of the study period.
- 27 -



Module L - Electricity Tariff
12.    The tasks to be carried out by the consultants under the electricity tariff module are:
i.     review the institutional framework relevant for tariff setting (laws, decrees, procedures, ordinances,
etc.) and assess its suitability for establishing an effective tariff regime;
ii.    review and assess the current procedures for tariff setting;
iii.    carry out a preliminary evaluation of the current tariff structure, including power factor penalties
and connection cost policy (this evaluation is to be confirmed once the recommended structure is
determined);
iv.    estimate the economic costs (long-run marginal costs unless the consultants can demonstrate a
more appropriate alternative measure) of providing electricity at the various voltage levels during
peak and off-peak periods, making use of the results of the recommended investment programs for
generation, transmission and distribution;
v.     carry out a financial analysis of the electricity supplier to determine the revenue requirement to
enable the supplier to have a satisfactory financial performance (based on carefully selected criteria
such as target levels for net income after taxes, self-financing ratio, rate of return on fixed assets,
debt service coverage);
vi.    determine tariff rates for each customer category (including, where feasible, peak and off-peak
rates, fixed and variable charges, penalties for poor power factor, and connection charges, while
avoiding excessive complexity) which reflect the economic costs as closely as possible while
meeting the revenue requirement; this analysis should verify as well whether the existing customer
categories are appropriate;
vii.    evaluate the impact of the estimated tariff rates on households and examine whether a lifeline tariff
rate should be established or a subsidy be provided by the administrative authorities to low income
consumers, using the results of the household survey carried out as part of the electricity demand
study;
viii.   make recommendations on tariff rates during the period of transition from the old tariff structure
and level to the proposed structure and level, starting with recommendations for tariff rates for
2002;
ix.    show the impact of the proposed tariff regime on the financial performance of the suppliers; and
x.     make recommendations on the institutional procedure for establishing the new tariffs and for
adjusting tariffs over time.
13.    In carrying out the above tasks, the consultants shall make use of appropriate computer-based
models for calculating economic costs, tariff rates, and for measuring the financial perforrnance of the
suppliers.
- 28 -



Module M - Future !5i-ucture of the Energy Sector
14.    The consultants shall examine the internal organizational structure and operations of each of the
energy companies and make recommendations to improve efficiency in the long run (as opposed to
recommending short-term reorganization and management changes, which are being handled through
separate arrangements). They shall also make recommendations on the evolution of an appropriate sector
structure, taking into account applicable EU directives and guidelines, developments in other transition
countries in Europe and elsewhere, and the special circumstances in Kosovo. They shall investigate the
feasibility of vesting the regulatory, ownership and supervisory functions of the Public Utilities Department
in separate agencies. They shall look at the feasibility and time schedule for converting the energy public
utilities to joint-stock companies, commercializing them, unbundling KEK and introducing competition into
the power sector, privatizing the joint-stock companies to strategic investors, and arranging for the
establishment of independent power facilities by foreign or local private investors. They shall investigate
and make recommendations on the most suitable regulatory agency(ies) and regulatory mechanism for each
form of energy. They shall prepare a detailed "road map" to eventual privatization, and identify possible
pitfalls to be avoided.
TRAINING
15.    The consultants shall furnish to KEK and the Public Utilities Department the models (software)
used to make the demand projections, determine the least-cost investment program, calculate economic
costs of electricity supply, determine tariff rates, and measure financial performance. They shall also
provide training in the use of these models.
16.    The consultants shall also make available on a full time basis for a period of six months after
completion of the studies a specialist to continue training in the use of the models provided.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Local        #Foign          Totl
Energy sector study                                            0.00           2.50          2.50
Total Baseline Cost                                            0.00           2.50          2.50
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00           0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.00           0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                 0.00          2.50           2.50
Total Financing Required                  0.00          2.50           2.50
Goods                                                            0.00           0.00           0.00
Works                                                            0.00           0.00           0.00
Services                                                         0.00           2.50           2.50
Training                                                         0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs       0.00            2.50          2.50
Total Financing Required        0.00            2.50          2.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost. net of taxes, is 2.5 (US$m). Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 100% oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
- 30 -



Annex 4
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Not applicable.
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
E Year1    TYear 2       Year 3
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.6         1.8        0.1
Recurrent Costs              0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs           0.6         1.8        0.1
Total Financing                0.6        1.8        0.1
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    0.6        1.8         0.1
Government                  0.0        0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0         0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       0.6        1.8        0.1
The study would be carried out under a lump sum contract.
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement under the project would consist of one consultant contract. The Central Procurement Entity
(CPE) would carry out the procurement according to agreed procedures on behalf of the Public Utilities
Department.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The contract for consulting services would be awarded using the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
method following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            [Cs             NCB           Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          2.50         0.00         2.50
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.50)       (0.00)       (2.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                             0.00            0.00          2.50          0.00        2.50
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.50)       (0.00)       (2.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent
units.
- 33 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oter   t4B.   Totlcot
A. Firms         2.50    0.00    0.00         0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     2.50
_______  (2.50)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (2.50)
B. Individuals    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00        0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  2.50    0.00    0.00        0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     2.50
(2.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (2.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B is omitted since there would be only one contract, which would be for consulting services. The
contract would be subject to full prior review.
Procurement Activity
Project                   Energy Sector Study
Beneficiary               Public Utilities Department
Estimated Cost            US$ 2.5 million
Financier                 World Bank
Procurement Method        QCBS
Invitation of Bids        December 20, 2000
Submission of Bids        January 19, 2001
Award of Contract         March 1, 2001
Completion of Study       March 31, 2002
Completion of Training    September 31, 2002
- 34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Ceory            Amount In  Smllion           Financing Percentage
Services                                    2.50                          100
0.00
0.00
Total Project Costs                         2.50
Total                                       2.50
The proposed Grant would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. As there
will be only one contract and the contractor will be paid directly from the Grant Account, no Special
Account is required, nor will SOEs be utilized. The project Completion Date is September 30, 2002.
Project Accounting
The Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, is responsible for the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and the
budgets under the responsibility of the municipalities, which together formi the Kosovo Consolidated
Budget (KCB). Specifically, the CFA is responsible for budget process and preparation, treasury
functions, revenue analysis, tax collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is funded
primarily through the International donor community and its day-to-day management is conducted by
international experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector
spending through an automated system to enhance accountability and government financial operations.
To ensure that expenditure are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB, regulations
have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To prevent abuse and fraud,
explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the commitment and expenditure of
public money. Also, in order to minimise the risk of fraud and malfeasance, an independent officer from
the procurement process checks and confirms that these rules have been adhered to.
The Treasury Department of the CFA is in the process of modifying its accounting systems for the KCB,
and for its single treasury account (STA), which would consolidate payments and receipts of all line
ministries and municipalities. The chart of accounts is based on the GFMIS. As the participants under the
project fall under the umbrella of the KCB, all project related payments would be made via the STA, and
the accounts would be maintained as part of the CFA's accounting system. For this project, it was agreed
that the simplified version of the PMRs would be utilized.
The following steps will be taken by CFA:
A financial management specialist acceptable to the Bank will be hired (funded out of another
Bank-funded project) and assigned the task of producing the PMRs required by the Bank. He/she
- 35 -



will have a counterpart in the Public Utilities Department, who will co-ordinate project
implementation and assist in the preparation of the simplified PMRs.
The existing data base will be modified to produce full quarterly simplified PMRs no later than
September 30, 2001;
The CFA will utilize traditional Bank disbursemeni procedures.
The Treasury Department of the CFA has:
*      adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and
accounting required for implementation of the project objectives; and
*      proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the project.
Project records will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) as issued
by the International Accounting Standard Committee (IASD).
5. PROJECT AUDIT AND OTHER REPORTING
Project Audits
llNMIK is in the process of appointing an auditor to undertake annual audits of the entire consolidated
budget. It is proposed that the audit of the project accounts will be included within this audit. During
negotiations, arrangements for this audit and the tenns of reference will be confirmed. Project accounts
and financial statements (simplified PMRs) will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing for Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial
Accounting Reporting and Auditing liandbook (January 1995). In particular, International Auditing
Standards (IAS) as published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently
applied. The CFA will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
Project Reporting
The CFA will ensure that proper project reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank in a timely
fashion. These include simplified quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation progress
(including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The reporting system will
be in compliance with the formats provided by the Bank in the Project Financial Management Manual
(Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has been given to the CFA. These include: project status
reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered, corrective actions
needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the current state of project indicators; and (iii) the current cost of the
project and the estimated cost of completion.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5                            5
First Bank mission (identification)             10/15/2000                   10/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     02/17/2001                   02/17/2001
Negotiations                                    02/22/2001                   02/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/30/2001
Prepared by:
The Public Utilities Department, UNMIK, KEK, and the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Iftikhar Khalil                   Program Team Leader, Principal Energy Specialist, Procurement
Accredited Staff
Richard Hamilton                  Consultant Energy Economist
Felix Martin                      Economist
Heinz Hendriks                    Senior Mining Engineer
Kishor Uprety                     Senior Counsel
Joseph Formoso                    Senior Disbursement Officer
Yolanda Gedse                     Program Assistant
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan consists of: (i) the Request for Proposals for carrying out for the technical
assistance and (ii) the contract with the selected consultants (after signature).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
European Commission and the World Bank, "Towards Stability and Prosperity, A Program for
Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo," November 3, 1999.
C. Other
1.    Draft Regulation No. 2000/XX  (28.07.00), "On the Establishment of the Administrative
Department of Public Utilities."
2.    Public Utilities Department, Pristina, Kosovo, "Policy Position Paper on the Public Utilities Sector,
Goals and Objectives and Related Functions and Programmes, July 2000."
Including electronic files
- 38 -



